PALATE BONES. 46 smooth and convex, and pierced by several small openings which give passage to filaments of the temporo-malar nerve and minute arteries. The internal surface is concave, partly smooth and partly rough; smooth where it forms part of the temporal fossa, and rough where it articulates with the superior maxillary bone. frontal process ascends perpendicularly to form the outer border of the orbit, and to articulate wth the external angular process of the frontal hone. The orbital process is a thick plate, which projects inwards from the frontal process, and unites with the great ala of the sphenoid to constitute the outer wall of the orbit. It is pierced by several small foramina for the passage of temporo-malar filaments of the superior maxillary nerve. The maxillary process is broad, and articulates with the superior maxillary bone. The zygomatic process, narrower than the rest, projects backwards to unite with the z}'goma of the temporal bone. Development.—By a single centre; in rare instances by two, or three. In many animals the malar bone is permanently divided into two por- tions, orbital and malar. Ossification commences in the malar bone soon after the vertebras. Articulations. — With bones: three of the cranium, frontal, temporal, and sphenoid; and one of the face, the superior maxillary bone. Attachment of Muscles.—To fiiK: levator labii superioris proprius, zygomaticus minor and major, masseter, and temporal. Mg. 25.* Palate Bones.—The palate bones are situated at the posterior part of the nares, where the}’’ enter into the formation of the palate, the side of the nose, and the posterior part of the floor of the orbit; hence they might, with great propriety, be named the pa- la to-naso-orbital bones. Each bone re- sembles in general form the letter L, and is divisible into a horizontal plate, a perpendicular plate, and a pterygoid process or tuberositj^ The horizontal plate is quadrilateral; and presents two surfaces, one superior, which enters into the fonnation of the floor of the nares, the other inferior. * A posterior view of the right palate bone in its natural position; it is slightly turned on one side, to obtain a sight of the internal surface of the per- pendicular plate (2). 1. The horizontal plate of the bone ; its upper or nasal surface. 2. The pei-pondicular plate ; its internal or nasal surface. 3, 10, 11. The pterj'goid process or tuberosity. 4. The thick intcinal border of the hori- zontal plate, which, articulating with the similar border of the opposite bone.