INl’ERIOR MAXILLARY NERV'E. 44G The Inferior maxillary nerve proceeds from the inferior an'^le of the Gasserian ganglion; it is the largest of the three disdsions of the fifth nerve, and is augmented in size by the anterior or motor root, which passes behind the ganglion, and unites with the inferior maxillary as it escapes through the foramen ovale. Emerging at the foramen, ovale the nerve divides into two trunks, external and in- ternal, which are separated from each other by the external pterygoid muscle. The External trunks into which .may be traced nearly the whole of the motor root, immediately divides into five branches which are dis- tributed to the muscles of the temporo-maxillarj’' region; they are— The Masseteric, which crosses the sigmoid notch ^vith the masseteric artery to the masseter muscle. It sends a small branch to the tem- poral muscle, and a filament to the temporo-maxillary articulation. Temporal; two branches passing between the upper border of the external pterygoid muscle and the temporal bone to the temporal muscle. Two or three filaments from these nerves pierce the temporal fascia, and communicate with the lachrymal, subcutaneus malae, auri- cular and facial nerve. Buccal; a large branch which pierces the fibres of the external pterygoid, to reach the buccinator muscle. This nerve sends fila- ments to the temporal and external pterygoid muscle, to the mucous membrane and integument of the cheek, and communicates with the facial nerve. Internal pterygoid; a long and slender branch, which passes inwards to the internal pteiygoid muscle, and gives filaments in its course to the tensor palati and tensor tympani. This nerve is remarkable from its connection with the otic ganglion, to which it is closely at- tached. The Internal trunk divides into three branches— Gustatory, Inferior dental, Anterior auricular. The Gustatory nerve descends between the two pterygoid mus- cles to the side of the tongue, where it becomes flattened, and divides into numerous filaments, which are distributed to the papillae and mucous membrane. Relations.—It lies at first between the external pter3'goid muscle and the pharjmx, next between the two pterj’goid muscles, then be- tween the internal pterygoid and ramus of the jaw, and between the stylo-glossus muscle and the submaxillary gland; lastly, it runs along the side of the tongue, resting against the hjm-glossus muscle, and covered in by the mylo-hyoideus and mucous membrane. The gustatory nerve, while between the two pterj'goid muscles, receives a branch from the inferior dental; lower down it is joined at an acute angle by the chorda tympani which passes downwards in the sheath of the gustatory to the submaxillar}' gland, where it unites with