ABDL-CTOR POLLICIS. 271 Plantar Region. First Layer. Abductor pollicis, Abductor minimi digiti, Flexor brevis digitorum. Dissection.—The sole of the foot is best dissected by carrying an incision around the heel, and along the inner and outer borders of the foot, to the great and little toes. This incision should divide the integument p^g and superficial fascia, and both together should be dissected from the deep fascia, as far forward as the base of the pha- langes, where they may be removed from the foot altogether. The deep rascia should then be removed, and the first layer of muscles will be brought into view. The Abductor pollicis lies along the inner border of the foot; it arises by two heads, between which the tendons of the long flexors, arteries, veins, and nerves enter the sole of the foot. One head arises from the inner tuberosity of the 03 calcis, the other from the internal annular ligament and plantar fascia. Insertion, into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, and into the internal sesamoid bone. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the internal portion of the plantar fascia. By its deep surface with the flexor brevis pollicis, muscidus acces- sorius, tendons of the flexor longus di- gitorum and flexor longus pollicis, ten- dons of the tibialis anticus and posti- cus , the plantar vessels and nerves, and the tarsal bones. On its outer border with the flexor brevis digitorum, from which it is separated by a ver- tical septum of the plantar fascia. • The first layer of muscles of the sole of the foot; this layer is exposed by the removal of the plantar fascia. 1. The os calcis. 2. The posterior part of the plantar fascia divided transversely. 3. The abductor pollicis. 4. The abductor minimi digiti. 5. The flexor brevis digitorum. 6. The tendon of the flexor longus pollicis muscle. 7, 7. The lumbricales. On the second and third toes, the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum are seen passing through the bifurcation of the tendons of the flexor brevis digitorum.