255 ANTERIOR FEMORAL REGION. the obturator membrane and the margin of bone which surrounds it, the lower part of the capsule of the hip-joint and the quadratus femoris. The Quadratus femoris (square-shaped) arises from the external border of the tuberosity of the ischium, and is inserted into a rough line on the posterior border of the trochanter major, which is thence named linea quadrati. Relatims.—By its ^osferio>‘ surface with the gluteus maximus, and ischiatic vessels and nerves. By its anterior surface with the tendon of the obturator externus and trochanter minor, a synovial bursa often separating it from the latter. By its upper harder with the gemellus inferior ; and by the lower border with the adductor magnus. Actions.—The glutei muscles are abductors of the thigh, when they take their fixed point from the pelvis. Taking their fixed point from . the thigh, they stead}*- the pelvis on the head of the femur; this action is peculiarly obvious in standing on one leg; they assist also in carry- ing the leg forward, in progression. The gluteus minimus being at- tached to the anterior border of the trochantet major, rotates the limb slightly inwards. The gluteus medius and maximus, from their inser- tion into the posterior aspect of the bone, rotate the limb outwards ; the latter is, moreover, a tensor of the fascia of the thigh. The other : muscles rotate the limb outwards, everting the knee and foot ; hence ■ they are named external rotators. Anterior Femoral Region, Tensor vaginae femoris, Sartorius, Rectus, Vastus intemus. Vastus externus, Crureus. Dissection.—Make an incision along the line of Poupart’s ligament, '.from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to the spine of t the os pubis; and a second, from the middle of the preceding down •the inner side of the thigh, and across the inner condyle of the femur, to the head of the tibia, where it may be bounded by a transverse in- cision. Turn back the integument from the whole of this region, and Examine the superficial fascia ; which is next to be removed in the ume manner. After the deep fascia has been well considered, it is ■ ikewise to be removed, by dissecting it off in the course of the fibres • )f the muscles. As it might not be convenient to the junior student o expose so large a surface at once as ordered in this dissection, the ■ •ertical incision may be crossed by one or two transverse incisions, as ; nay be deemed most proper. The Tensor vaginas femoris (stretcher of the sheath of the ■ high) is a short flat muscle, situated on the outer side of the hip. It ■irises from the crest of the ilium, near its anterior superior spinous