184 KLEVATORS OF THE OS HVOIDES. brachial plexus, the scaleni muscles, the phrenic nerve, the sheath of the common carotid artery and jugular vein, the descendens noni nerve, the sterno-thyroid, and thyro-hyoid muscle, and the sterno-hyoid at triangle into a superior or occipital trianple and an inferior or subclavian triamjle; the latter contains the subclavian artery and bra- chial plexus of nerves; the other two boundaries of the subclavian tri- angle are, the sterno-mastoid in front and the clavicle below. The hyoid portion of the muscle, divides the great anterior triangle into an inferior carotid triangle situated below the muscle, and a superior triangle which lies above the muscle and is again subdivided by the digastricus into the suhmaxillarg triangle and the superior carotid tri- angle. The other two boundaries of the inferior carotid triangle, are the middle line of the neck in front and the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid behind. The other boundaries of the superior carotid triangle are the posterior belly of the digastricus muscle above and the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid behind. Actions.—The four mttscles of this group are depressors of the os hyoides and larynx. The three former drawing these parts down- wards in the middle line, and the two omo-hyoidei regulating their traction to the one or other side of the neck, according to the position of the head. The omo-hyoid muscles, by means of their connection with the cervical fascia, are rendered tensors of that portion of the deep cervical fascia which covers the lower part of the neck, between the two sterno-mastoid muscles. Dissectio7i.—These are best dissected by placing a high block be- neath the neck, and throwing the head backwards. The integument has been already dissected away, and the removal of the areolar tissue and fat brings them clearly into view. The Digastricus (?g, twice, ’yeca-rr,^, belly) is a small muscle situ- ated immediately beneath the side of the body of the lower jaw; it is fleshy at each extremit}', and tendinous in the middle It arises from the digastric fossa, upon the inner side of the mastoid process of the temporal bone, and is inserted into a depression on the inner side of the lower jaw, close to the symphysis. The middle tendon is held in connection with the body of the os h}'oides bj"^ an aponeurotic loop, through which it plays as through a pulley; the loop being lubricated by a synovial membrane. A thin layer of aponeurosis is given off from the tendon of the digastricus at each side, which is connected with the body of the os hyoides and forms a strong plane of fascia its insertion. The scapular portion of the muscle divides the great Tim'd Group.—Elevators of the Os Hyoides. Digastricus, Stylo-hyoid, Mylo-hj’-oid, Genio-hyoid, Genio-hyo-glossus.