INFERIOR TURBINATED BONES. 48 superior or orbital, which forms the posterior part of the floor of the orbit, and the external, which looks into the spheno-maxillary fossa. The sphenoidal portion, much smaller than the orbital, has three surfaces, two lateral and one superior. The ex- ternal lateral surface enters into the fonnation of the spheno-maxillary fos- sa ; the internal lateral forms part of the lateral boundary of the nares; and the superior surface articulates with the under part of the body of the sphe- noid bone, and assists the sphenoidal spongy bones in closing the sphenoidal sinuses. This portion takes part in the formation of the pterygo-palatine canal. The pterygoid process or tvierosity of the palate bone is the thick and rough process which stands backwards from the angle of union of the horizontal with the perpendicular por- tion of the bone. It is received into the angular fissure, which exists between the two plates of the pterygoid process at their inferior extre- mity, and presents three surfaces: one concave and smooth, which forms part of the pterygoid fossa; and one at each side to articulate with the pterygoid plates. The anterior face of this process is rough, and articulates with the superior maxillary bone. Development.—By a single centre, which appears in the angle of union between the horizontal and perpendicular portion, at the same time witli ossification in the vertebrae. Articulations.—With six bones: two of the cranium, the sphenoid ^ and ethmoid; and four of the face, the superior maxillary, inferior turbinated bone, vomer, and the palate bone of the opposite side. Attachment of Muscles.—To four : the tensor palati, azygos uvulae, internal and external pterygoid. Inferior turbinated Bones.—The inferior turbinated or spongy • bone, is a thin layer of light and porous bone, attached to the crista turbinalis inferior of the inner wall of the nares, and projecting in- A wards towards the septum narium. The inferior turbinated bone is broad in front, narrow and tapering behind, and slightly curled upon itself, so as to bear some resemblance to one valve of a bivalve shell, • The perjiendicular plate of the palate bone seen upon its external or spheno- maxillary surface. 1. The rough surface of this plate, which articulates with the superior maxillary bone and bounds the antrum. 2. The posterior palatine canal, completed by the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone and pteiygoid • process. The rough surface to the left of the canal (2) articulates with the internal pterygoid plate. 3. The spheno-palatine notch. 4, 5, 6. The orbital portion of the perpendicular plate. 4. The spheno-maxillary facet of this por- tion ; 6, its orbital facet; 6, its maxillary facet, to articulate with the superior .i* maxillary bone. 7. The sphenoidal portion of the perpendicular plate. 8. The pteiygoid process or tuberosity of the bone. i J Fig. 26.*