LIGAMENTS OF THE LARYNX. 549 The Arytenoid cartilages (a^uTa'iva* a pitcher), two in number, are triangular and prismoid in form. They are broad and thick below, where they articulate with the upper border of the cricoid cartilage ; pointed above, and prolonged by two small pyriform cartilages, comi- cula lui'pigis (capitula Santorini), which are curved inwards and back- wards, and they each present three surfaces, anterior, posterior, and internal. The posterior surface is concave, and lodges part of the ary- tenoideus muscle; the internal surface is smooth, and forms part of the lateral wall of the larynx; the anterior or external surface is rough and irregular, and gives attachment to the chorda vocalis, thyro-aryte- noideus, crico-arytenoideus lateralis and posticus, and, above these, to the base of the cuneiform cartilage. The Cuiieifoinn cartilages are two small cylinders of fibro-cartilage, about seven lines in length, and enlarged at each extremity. By the lower end, or base, the cartilage is attached to the middle of the ex- ternal surface of the arytenoid, and by its upper extremity forms a prominence in the border of the aryteno-epiglottidean fold of mem- brane. They are sometimes wanting. In the male, the cartilages of the larjmx are more or less ossified, particularly in old age. The Epiglottis (iviyXar'r't;, upon the tongue) is a fibro-cartilage of a yellowdsh colour, studded with a number of small mucous glands, which are lodged in shallow pits upon its surface. It is shaped like a cordate leaf, and is placed immediately in front of the opening of the larj-nx, which it closes completely when the larynx is drawn up beneath the base of the tongue. It is attached by its point to the receding angle, between the two alee of the thyroid cartilage. Ligaments,—The Ligaments of the larynx are numerous, and may be arranged into four groups: 1. Those which articulate the thyroid with the os hyoides. 2. Those which connect it with the cricoid. 3. Ligaments of the arytenoid cartilages. 4. Ligaments of the epi- glottis. 1. The ligaments which connect the thyroid cartilage with the os hyoides are three in number:— The two Thyro-liyoidean ligaments pass between the superior cornua of the thj’roid and the extremities of the greater cornua of the os hyoides : a sesamoid bone or cartilage is found in each. The Thyro-hyoidean membrane is a broad membranous layer, occupy- ing the entire space between the upper border of the thyroid cartilage and the upper border of the os hyoides. It is pierced by the superior laryngeal nerve and artery. 2. The ligaments connecting the thyroid to the cricoid cartilage are also three in number :— • This derivation has reference to the appearance of both caililages taken to- gether and covered by mucous membrane, in animals, which were the princi- pal subjects of dissection among the ancients, the opening of the larynx with the arytenoid cartilages bears a striking resemblance to the mouth of a pitcher having a large spout.