t STRUCTURE OF TEETH. 65 constitute the cavitas pulpae, and contain a soft cellulo-vascular organ, the pidp, which receives its supply of vessels and nerves through the small opening at the apex of each root. Mr. Nasmyth, to whose inves- tigations science is so much indebted for our present knowledge of the intimate structure and development of the teeth, has observed, with regard to the pulp, that it is composed of two different tissues, vasctdar and reticidar, the former being an intricate web of minute vessels ter- minating in simple capillary loops; the latter, a network of nucleated cells in which calcareous salts are gradually deposited, and which by a systematic continuance of that process are gradually converted into ivorj'. This process naturally takes place at the surface of the pulp, and as the pulp is thus robbed of its cells, new cells are produced by the capillary plexus to supply their place, and be in their turn simi- larly transformed. A tooth is composed of three distinct structures, ivory or tooth-bone, enamel, and a cortical substance or cementum. When viewed with the microscope, the ivory appears to consist of very minute, tapering, and branching fibres, imbedded in a dense, homogeneous, interfibrous substance. The fibres commence by their larger ends at the walls of the cavitas pulpae, and pursue a radiating and serpentine course to- wards the periphery of the tooth, where they terminate in ramifica- tions of extreme minuteness. These fibres, heretofore considered as . hollow tubuli, have been shewn by Mr. Nasmyth to be rows of minute ;opake bodies, arranged in a linear series (baccated fibres, Nasmyth), to be, in fact, the nuclei of the ivory cells, the interfibrous substance being the rest of the cell filled with calcareous matter. In the natural state of the tooth all trace of the parietes or mode of connection of the cells is lost, but, after steeping in weak acid, the cellular network is «perfectly distinct. The enamel forms a crust over the whole exposed surface of the :crown of the tooth to the commencement of its root; it is thickest ever the npper part of the crown, and becomes gradually thinner as it approaches the neck. It is composed of minute hexagonal crystalline :fibres, resting by one extremity against the surface of the ivory, and I constituting by the other the free surface of the crown. The fibres, examined on the face of a longitudinal section, have a waving arrange- : nent, and consist, like those of ivory, of cells connected by their sur- faces and ends and filled avith calcareous substance. When the latter ■ 8 removed by weak acid, the enamel presents a delicate cellular net- »vork of animal matter. The cortical substance, or cementum (substantia ostoidea), forms a bin coating over the root of the tooth, from the termination of the mamel to the opening in the apex of the fang. In structure it is inalogous to bone, and is characterized by the presence of numerous -*urkinjean cells and tubuli. The cementum increases in thickness vith the advance of age, and gives rise to those exostosed appear- .nces occasionally seen in the teeth of very old persons, or in those vho have mken much mercury. In old age the cavitas pulpae is often