455 SUPKRIOR LARYNGEAL NER%'E. laryngeul branchy which sends a twig to the pharj'ngeal plexus, and then descends to supply the inferior constrictor and crico-thyroid muscles and thyroid gland. This branch communicates inferiorly Avith the reciurent laryngeal and sympathetic nerve. Mr. Hilton of Guy’s Hospital, concludes from his dissections* that the superior larj’iigeal nerve is the 7ierve of sensation to the larynx, being distributed solely (with the exception of its external laryngeal branch and a tAvig to the arytenoideus) to the mucous membrane. If this fact be taken in connection Avith the observations of Sir Astley Cooper, and the dissections of the origin of the nerve by Mr. EdAvard Cock, Ave shall have ample evidence, both in the ganglionic origin of the nerve and in its distribution, of its sensitive function. The recirr- rent, or inferior laryngeal nerve, is the proper motor nerve of the larjTix, and is distributed to its muscles. The Cardiac branches, two or three in number, arise from the pneu- mogastric in the loAver part of the neck, and cross the inferior part of the common carotid, to communicate Avith the cardiac branches of the sym- pathetic, and Avith the great cardiac plexus. The Recurrent laryngeid, or inferior laryngeal nerve, curves around the subclavian artery on the right, and the arch of the aorta on the left side. It ascends in the groove‘betAveen the trachea and oesopha- gus, and piercing the loAver fibres of the inferior constrictor muscle enters the larynx close to the articulation of the inferior cornu of the thyroid with the cricoid cartilage. It is distributed to all the muscles of the laiynx, with the exception of the crico-thyroid, and commrmi- cates on the arytenoideus muscle Avith the superior laryngeal nerve. As it ciuwes around the subclavian artery and aorta it gives branches to the heart and root of the lungs; and as it ascends the neck it dis- tributes filaments to the oesophagus and trachea, and communicates with the external laryngeal nerve and sympathetic. The Anterior pulmonary branches are distributed upon the anterior aspect of the root of the lungs, forming, with branches from the great cardiac plexus, the anterior pulmonary plexus. The Posterior pulmonary branches, more numerous than the ante- rior, are distributed upon the posterior aspect of the root of the lungs, and are joined by branches from the great cardiac plexus, forming the posterior pulmonary plexus. Upon the oesophagus the tAvo nerves divide into numerous branches which communicate Avith each other and constitute the oesophageal plexus which completely surrounds the cylinder of the oesophagus, and accompanies it to the cardiac orifice of the stomach. The Gastric branches are the terminal filaments of the tAvo pneumo- gastric nerves; they are spread out upon the anterior and posterior surfaces of the stomach, and are likewise distributed to the omentum, spleen, pancreas, liver, and gall-bladder, and communicate, particularly the right nerve, Avith the solar plexus. * Guy’s Hospital Reports, vol. ii.