420 THALAMI OPTICI. THIRD VENTRICLE. iicctions with the hippocampi. If the student examine its under sur- face, he will perceive the lyra above described. Beneath the fornix is the velum interpositum, a duplicature of pia mater introduced into the interior of the brain, through the transverse fissure. The velum is continuous at each side with the choroid plexus, and contains in its inferior layer two large veins (the venae Oaleni) which receive the blood from the corpora striata and choroid plexuses, and terminate posteriorly, after uniting into a single trunk, in the straight sinus. Upon the under surface of the velum interpositum are two fringe-like bodies, which project into the third ventricle. These are the elioroid plexuses of the third ventricle; posteriorly these fringes en- close the pineal gland. If the velum interpositum be raised and turned back, an operation which must be conducted with care,' particularly at its posterior part where it invests the pineal gland, the thalami optici and the cavity of the third ventricle will be brought into view. Thalami optici.—The thalami optici are two oblong, square-shaped bodies, of a white colour superficially, inserted between the two di- verging portions of the corpora striata. In the middle line a fissure exists between them, which is called the third ventricle. Posteriorly and inferiorly, they form the superior wall of the descending cornu, and present two rounded elevations called corpus genicidatum externum and internum. The corpus geniculatum externum is the larger of the two, and of a greyish colour; it is the principal origin of the optic nerve. Anteriorly, the thalami are connected with the corpora albicantia by means of two white bands, which appear to originate in the white substance uniting the thalami to the corpora striata. Ex- ternally they are in relation with the coi’pora striata and hemispheres. In their interior the thalami are composed of white fibres mixed with grey substance. They are essentially the inferior ganglia of the cerebrum. Third ventricle.—The third ventricle is the fissure between the two thalami optici. It is bounded above by the under surface of the velum interpositum, from which are suspended the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle. Its floor is formed by the grey substance of the anterior termination of the corpus callosum, called lamina cinerea, tlie tuber cinereum, corpora albicantia, and locus perforatus. Laterally it is bounded by the thalami optici; anteriorly by the anterior commissure and crura of the fornix; and posteriorly by the posterior commissure and the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum. The third ventricle is crossed by three commissures, anterior, middle, and posterior; and between these are two spaces, called foramen commune anterius and foramen commune posterius. The Anterior commissure is a small rounded white cord, which enters the corpus striatum at either side, and spreads out in the substance of the hemispheres ; the middle., or soft commissure consists of grey matter, which is continuous with the grey lining of the ventricle, it connects the adjacent sides of the thalami optici; the p>osterior commissure,