470 CIUCUMFLKX NERVE. DORSAL NERVES. the radial border of the index finger, and the adjacent borders of the index and middle fingers. It communicates on the back of the hand Avith the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. In the upper third of the fore-ann the radial nerve lies beneath the border of the supinator longus muscle. In the middle third it is in re- lation with the radial artery, lying to its outer side. It then quits the artery, and passes beneath the tendon of the supinator longus, to reach the back of the hand. The Posterior interosseous nerve, somcAvhat larger than the radial, separates from the latter at the bend of the elbow, pierces the supina- tor-brevis muscle, and emerges from- its lower border on the posterior aspect of the fore-arm, where it divides into branches Avhich supply the whole of the muscles on the posterior aspect of the fore-arm. One branch, longer than the rest, descends to the posterior part of the wrist, and forms a gangliform swelling (the common character of nerves which supply joints), from which numerous filaments are distributed to the Avrist-joint. The Circumflex nerve arises from the posterior part of the brachial plexus by a common trunk Avith the musculo-spiral nerve. It passes doAvnwards over the border of the subscapularis muscle, Avinds around the neck of the humerus with the posterior circumflex artery, and terminates by dividing into numerous branches which supply the deltoid muscle. The Branches of the circumflex nerve are, muscular and cutaneous. The Muscular branches are distributed to the subscapularis, teres minor, teres major, latissimus dorsi, and deltoid. The cutaneous branches pierce the deltoid muscle and are distributed to the integument of the shoulder. One of these cutaneous branches (cutaneus brachii superior), larger than the rest, winds around the posterior border of the deltoid, and divides into filaments which pass in a radiating direction across the shoulder, and are distributed to the integument. dorsal nerves. The dorsal nerves are tAvelve in number on each side; the first appears betAveen the first and second dorsal vertebrae, and the last betAveen the twelfth dorsal and first lumbar. They are smaller than the lower cervical ner\ms, and diminish gradually in size from the first to the tenth, and then increase to the tAvelfth. Each nerve, as soon as it has escaped from the intervertebral foramen, divides into two branches ; a dorsal branch and the true intercostal nerve. The Dorsal branehes pass directly backAAurds between the trans- verse processes of the vertebrae, lying internally to the anterior costo- transverse ligament, and each nerAm diAudes into an anterior or mus- cular and a posterior or musculo-cutaneous branch. The muscular branch enters the substance of the muscles in the direction of a line corresponding Avith the interval of separation between the longissimus