377 AXILLARY VEIN. of the arm to its upper third ; it then enters the groove between the pectoralis major and deltoid muscle, where it is in relation with the descending branch of the thoracico-acromialis artery, and terminates beneath the clavicle in the subclavian vein. A large communicating branch sometimes crosses the clavicle between the external jugular and this vein, which gives it the appearance of being derived directly from the head—hence its appellation. The Median vein is intermediate in position between the anterior ulnar and radial vein ; it collects the blood from the anterior aspect of the fore-arm, communicating with the two preceding. At the bend of the elbow it receives a branch from the deep veins, and divides into two branches, the median cephalic and median basilic. The Median cephalic vein, generally the smaller of the two, passes obliquely outwards, in the groove between the biceps and supinator longus, to join the cephalic vein. The branches of the external cuta- neous nerve pass behind it. The Median basilic vein passes obliquely inwards, in the groove between the biceps and pronator radii teres, and terminates in the basilic vein. This vein is crossed by one or two filaments of the in- ternal cutaneous nerve, and is separated from the brachial artery by the aponeurotic slip given off by the tendon of the biceps. AXILLARY VEIN. The axillary vein is formed by the union of the veme comites of the brachial artery with the basilic vein. It lies in front of the arterj', receives numerous branches from the collateral veins of the branches of the axillary artery; and at the lower border of the first rib becomes the subclavian vein. SUBCLAVIAN VEIN. The subclavian vein crosses over the first rib and beneath the clavicle, and unites with the internal jugidar vein to form the vena innominata. It lies at first in front of the subclavian artery, and then in front of the scalenus anticus, which separates it from that vessel. The phrenic and pneumogastric nerves pass between the artery and vein. The veins opening into the subclavian are the cephalic below the clavicle, and the external and anterior jugulars above; occasionally ! some small veins from the neighbouring parts also terminate in it. VEINS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. The veins of the lower extremity are the deep and superficial. The ■ deep veins accompany the branches of the arteries in pairs, and fonn : the venm comites of the anterior and posterior tibial and peroneal r, arteries. These veins unite in the popliteal region to form a single ' vein of large size, the popliteal, which successively becomes in its course the femoral and the external iliac vein.