THORACIC DUCT. 396 per glands, proceed to the mesenteric, and those of tlie descending colon and rectum to the lumbar glands. The Lymphatic vessels of the kid^icy follow the direction of the blood- vessels to the lumbar glands situated around the aorta and inferior vena cava; those of the supra-renal capsules, which are very large and numerous, terminate in the renal lymphatics. Lymphatic vessels of the viscera of the joe/uis terminate in the sacral and lumbar glands. The Lymphatic vessels of the testicle take the course of the spermatic cord in which they are of large size ; they terminate in the lumbar glands. THORACIC DUCT. The thoracic duct* commences in the abdomen, by a considerable and somewhat triangular dilatation, the receptaculum chyli, which is situated on the front of the body of the second lumbar vertebra, behind and between the aorta and inferior vena cava, and close to the tendon of the right crus of the diaphragm. From the upper part of the receptaculum chyli the thoracic duct ascends through the aortic opening of the diaphragm, and along the front of the ver- tebral column, lying between the thoracic aorta and vena azj'gos, to the fourth dorsal vertebra. It then inclines to the left side, passes behind the arch of the aorta, and ascends by the side of the oesophagus and behind the perpendicular portion of the left subclavian artery to the root of the neck opposite the seventh cervical vertebra, where it makes a sudden curve forwards and downwards, and terminates at the point of junction of the left subclavian with the left internal jugular vein. The thoracic duct is equal in size to the diameter of a goose- quill at its commencement from the receptaculum chj^li, diminishes considerably in diameter towards the middle of the posterior me- diastinum, and again becomes dilated near its termination. At about the middle of the thorax it frequently divides into two branches of equal size, which reunite after a short course ; and sometimes it gives olF several branches, which assume a plexiform arrangement in this situation. Occasionally the thoracic duct bifurcates at the upper part of the thorax into two branches, one of which opens into the point of junction between the right subcla\dan and jugu- lar veins, while the other proceeds to the normal termination of the duct on the left side. In rare instances the duct has been found to terminate in the vena azygos, which is its normal destination in some Mammalia. The thoracic duct presents fewer valves in its course than l3Tn- * The thoracic duct was discovered by Eustachius, in 1563, in the horse: he regarded it as a vein, and called it the vena alba thoracis. The lacteals were first seen by Asellius in 1622, in the dog; and within the next ten )'ears by Veslingius in man.