139 ELBOW JOINT. belonging to the infra-spinatus muscle; and it moreover forms a sheath around that portion of the tendon of the biceps, which is in- cluded within the joint. The muscles immediately surrounding the shoulder joint are the subscapularis, supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, teres minor, long head of the triceps, and deltoid ; the long tendon of the biceps is within the capsulai' ligament. Actiojis.—The shoulder joint is capable of every variety of motion, viz. of movement for- wards and backwards, of abduction and adduc- tion, of circumduction and rotation. 5. Elbcnu Joint.—The elbow is a ginglymoid articulation ; its ligaments are foxir in num- ber,— Anterior, Posterior, Internal lateral, External lateral. The anterior ligament is a broad and thin membranous layer, descending from the an- terior sruface of the humerus, immediately above the joint, to the coronoid process of the ulna and orbicular ligament. On each side it is connected with the lateral ligaments. It is composed of fibres which pass in three different directions, vertical, transverse, and oblique, the latter, being extended from within outwards to the orbicular ligament, into which they are attached inferiorly. This ligament is covered in by the brachialis anticus muscle. The posterior ligament is a broad and loose layer passing between the posterior smface of the humerus and the anterior surface of the base of the olecranon, and connected at each side with the lateral ligaments. It is covered in by the tendon of the triceps. The internal lateral ligament is a thick tri- angular layer, attached above, by its apex, to the internal condyle of the humerus ; and be- low, by its expanded border, to the margin of the greater sigmoid cavity of the ulna, extending from the coronoid process to the olecra- non. At its insertion it is intermingled with some transverse fibres. * An external view of the elbow joint. 1. The humerus. 2. The ulna. 3. The radius. 4. The external lateral ligament inserted inferiorly into (5) the orbicular ligament 6. The posterior extremity of the orbicular ligament, spreading out at its insertion into the ulna. 7. The anterior ligament, scarcely apparent in this view of the articulation. 8. The posterior ligament, thrown into folds by the extension of the joint.