INTERNAL FEMORAL REGION. •258 This fasciculus is named, from its situation, suh-crureus, and would seem to be intended to support the synovial membrane. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the external circumflex vessels, the rectus, vastus intemus and extemus. By its deep surface with the femur, the sub-cmreus, and synovial membrane of the knee- joint. Actions,—The tensor vaginae femoris renders the fascia lata tense, and slightly inverts the limb. The sartorius flexes the leg upon the thigh, and, continuing to act, the thigh upon the pelvis, at the same time carrying the leg across that of the opposite side, into the position in which tailors sit; hence its name. Taking its fixed point from below, it assists the extensor muscles in steadying the leg, for the support of the trunk. The other four muscles have been collectively named quadriceps extensor, from their similarity of action. They extend the leg upon the thigh, and obtain a great increase of power by their attachment to the patella, which acts as a fulcrum. Taking their fixed point from the tibia, they steady the femur upon the leg, and the rectus, by being attached to the pelvis, serves to balance the trunk upon the lower extremity. Internal Femoral Region. Iliacus internus. Psoas magnus, Pectineus, Adductor longus. Adductor brevis. Adductor magnus, Gracilis. Dissection.—These muscles are exposed by the removal of the inner flap of integument recommended in the dissection of the anterior femoral region. The iliacus and psoas arising from within the abdo- men can only be seen in their entire extent after the removal of the viscera from that cavity. The Iliacus internus is a flat radiated muscle. It anses from the whole extent of the inner concave surface of the ilium ; and, after joining with the tendon of the psoas, is inserted into the trochanter minor of the femur. A few fibres of this muscle are derived from the base of the sacrum, and others from the capsular ligament of the hip- joint. Relations.—By its anterior surface, within the pelvis, with the ex- ternal cutaneous nerve, and with the iliac fascia, which separates the muscle from the peritoneum, on the right from the coecum, and on the left from the sigmoid flexure of the colon; externally to the pelvis, ndth the fascia lata, rectus, and sartorius. Bj' its posterior surface with the iliac fossa, margin of the pehns, and with the capsule of the hip-joint, a synovial bursa of large size being interposed. This bursa is some- times continuous with the s}’novial membrane of the ilio-femoral arti-