MUSCLES OF THE THOIIAX. 210 The actions of the remaining muscles of the spine, the mj/ra and inter-spinales and inter-transversales, are expressed in their names. They approximate their attachments and assist the more powerful muscles in preserving the erect position of the body. The levatores costarum raise the posterior parts of the ribs, and are probably more serviceable in preserving the articulation of the ribs from dislocation, than in raising them in inspiration. MUSCLES OF THE THORAX. The principal muscles situated upon the thorax belong in their ac- tions to the upper extremit}’^, with which they will be described. They are the pectoralis major and minor, subclavius and serratus magnus. The true thoracic muscles are few in number, and appertain exclusively to the actions of the ribs; they are, the— Intercostales extemi. Intercostales intemi. Triangularis stemi. The intercostal muscles are two planes of muscular and tendinous fibres directed obliquely between the adjacent ribs and closing the in- tercostal spaces. They are seen partially upon the removal of the pec- toral muscles, or upon the inner surface of the chest. The triangularis sterni is within the chest, and requires the removal of the anterior part of the thorax to bring it into view. The Intercostales externi, eleven on each side, commence pos- teriorly at the tubercles of the ribs, and advance forwards to the cos- tal cartilages where they terminate in a thin aponeurosis which is con- tinued onwards to the sternum. Their fibres are directed obliquely downwards and inwards, pursuing the same line with those of the ex- ternal oblique muscle of the abdomen. They are thicker than the in- ternal intercostals. The Intercostales Interni, also eleven on each side, commence anteriorly at the sternum, and extend backwards as far as the angles of the ribs, whence they are prolonged to the vertebral column by a thin aponeurosis. Their fibres are directed obliquely doumwards and backwards, and correspond in direction with those of the internal ob- lique muscle of the abdomen. The two muscles cross each other in the direction of their fibres. In structure the intercostal muscles consist of an admixture of muscular and tendinous fibres. They arise from the two lips of the lower border of the ribs, the external from the outer lip, the internal from the inner, and are inserted into the upper border. Relations.—The external intercostals, by their external surface, with the muscles which immediately invest the chest, viz. the pecto- ralis major and minor, the serratus magnus, serratus posticus superior