40 ETHMOID BONE, olfactory nerve, cind gives passage to its filaments, and to the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve. In the middle of the groove of this P- 22 * lamella the foramina pierce the bone completely, but at either side they are the apertures of canals, which run for some distance in the sub- stance of the central lamella, inner wall of the lateral mass, and spongy bones. The opening for the nasal nerve is a narrow slit in the ante- rior part of the cribriform lamella, close to the crista galli. The crib- riform lamella serves to connect the lateral masses with the perpendicu- lar plate. The lateral masses (labyrinthi) are divisible into an internal and external sm-face, and four borders, superior, inferior, anterior, and pos- terior, The internal surface is rough and slightly convex, and forms the external boundary of the upper part of the nasal fossae. Towards the posterior border of this surface is a narrow horizontal fissure, the superior meatus of the nose, the upper margin of which is thin, and somewhat curled inwards ; hence it is named the superior turbinated bone (concha superior). Below the meatus is the convex surface of another thin plate, which is curled outwards, and forms the lower border of the mass, the middle turbinated bone (concha media). The external surface is quadrilateral and smooth, hence it is named os planum, and, from its thinness, lamina papyracea; it enters into the foimation of the inner wall of the orbit. The superior border is irregular and cellular, the cells being com- pleted by the edges of the ethmoidal fissure of the frontal bone. This border is crossed by two grooves, sometimes complete canals, opening into the orbit by the anterior and posterior ethmoidal foramina. The inferior border is formed internally by the lower border of the middle turbinated bone, and externally by a concave irregular fossa, the upper boundary of the middle meatus. The anterior border presents a number of incomplete cells, which are closed by the superior maxillary • The ethmoid bone seen from above and behind. 1. The central lamella. 2, 2. The lateral masses; the numbers are placed on the posterior border of the lateral mass at each side. 3. The crista galli process. 4. The cribriform plate of the left side, pierced by its foramina. 5. The hollow space immediately above and to the left of this number is the superior meatus, 6. The superior turbinated bone. 7. The middle turbinated bone; the numbers 6, 6, 7, are situated upon the internal surface of the left lateral mass, near its posterior part. The interval between these parts is the superior meatus. 8. The external sur- face of the lateral mass, or os planum. 9. The superior or frontal border of the lateral mass, grooved by the anterior and posterior ethmoidal canals. 10. Refers to the concavity of the middle turbinated bone, which is the upper boundary of the middle meatus.