405 CLASSIFICATION OF NERVES. sheaths than those of the brain. From the exterior of their sheaths, filaments of fibrous tissue are given off, which interlace with each other, and hold the cells together ; and at the same time form an in- vesting network around the entire ganglion, the nerve-fibres passing into and out of the ganglion through the interstices of this network. Besides the sheath-filaments, certain of the nerve-cells give off grey fibres, while others -are free. The nerve-fibres of ganglia are of the two kinds met with in the rest of the nervous system. The white-fibres are derived from the cerebro-spinal axis, and enter the sympathetic through the so-called roots of that nerve, namely, its communications with the spinal nerves. In the ganglia these white fibres separate, and either pass directly onwards between the nerve-cells (traversing fibres), or make a series of turns around them (winding fibres) ; in either case, they collect together after a plexiform course between the neiwe-cells, and form fasciculi, which pass off as branches from the ganglion. The grey nerve-fibres originate from certain of the nerve- cells within the ganglion as finely granular threads, and pass away in the form of fasciculi, with or without association with the white fibres, to be distributed to the various organs, or to traverse other ganglia previously to their distribution. The Nerve-granules occupy the in- terstices between the nen^e-cells and the nerve-fibres as in the cerebro- spinal mass. They are also continued ■with the nerve-fibres, into some of the nerves given off by the ganglia. Like the interstitial substance of the brain, the granular substance (gelatinous substance) of ganglia has intermingled with it minute cells and pigment- granules. Nerves are divisible into two great classes; those which proceed directly from the cerebro-spinal axis, the cranial and spinal nerves, and constitute the system of animal life; and those which originate from the sympatlietic system, or system of organic life. The division of nerves into cranial and spinal is purelj’’ arbitrary, and depends on the circumstance of the fonner passing through the fora- mina of the cranium, and the latter through those of the vertebral ;oIumn. With respect to origin, all the cranial nerves, with the ex- leption of the first, [olfactory,] proceed from the spinal cord, or from .• ts immediate prolongation into the brain. The spinal nerves arise by wo roots ; anterior, which proceeds from the anterior segment of the pinal cord, and possesses a motor function; and posterior, which is onnected with the posterior segment, and bestows the faculty of sen- ation. The motor nerves of the cranium are shown by dissection to )e continuous with the motor portion of the cord, and form one system vith the motor roots of the spinal cord; while the nerves of sensation, •Iways excepting the olfactory, are in like manner traced to the poste- ior segment of the cord, and form part of the system of sensation. To hese two systems a third was added by Sir Charles Bell, the respira- or,' system, which consists of nerves associated in the function of re- ■piration, and arising from the side of the upper part of the spinal cord n one continuous line, which he thence named the respiratory tract.