MUSCLES OP THE PERINEUM. 224 upper fasciculus of the transverse portion of the muscle ; so that it is not a distinct muscle surrounding the membranous portion of the urethra, and supporting it as in a sling, as described by Mr. Wilson, but merely an upper origin of the transverse muscle. The compressor urethrae may be considered either as two symme- trical muscles meeting at the raphe, or as a single muscle: I have adopted the latter course in the above description, as appearing to me the more consistent with the general connections of the muscle, and with its actions. The Transversus perinei amesfrom the tuberosity of the ischium on each side, and is inserted into the central tendinous point of the perineum.* Relations.—By its superficial surface with the superficial perineal fascia, and superficial perineal artery. By its deep surface with the deep perineal fascia, and internal pudic artery and veins. Bj’’ its/»os- terior border it is in relation with that portion of the superficial peri- neal fascia which passes up to become continuous with the deep fascia. To dissect the compressor urethra, the whole of the preceding muscles should be removed, so as to render the glistening surface of the deep perineal fascia quite apparent. The anterior layer of this fascia should then be carefully dissected away, and the corpus spongiosum penis divided through its middle, separated from the corpus cavemo- sum, and drawn forwards, in order to put on the stretch the mem- branous portion of the urethra, upon which the muscle is spread out. The muscle is, however, better seen in a dissection made from within the pelvis, after having turned down the bladder from its attachment to the os pubis, and removed a plexus of veins and the posterior layer of the deep perineal fascia. The Sphincter ani is a thin and elliptical plane of muscle closelj- adherent to the integument, and surrounding the opening of the anus. It arises posteriorly in the superficial fascia around the coccyx, and by a fibrous raphe from the apex of that bone ; and is imerted anteriorly into the tendinous centre of the perineum, and into the raph6 of the integument, nearly as far forwards as the commencement of the scrotum. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the integument. By its deep surface with the internal sphincter, the levator ani, the areolar tissue and fat in the ischio-rectal fossa, and in front ivith the superfi- cial perineal fascia. The Sphincter ani internus is a muscidar ring embracing the extremity of the intestine, and formed by an aggregation of the cir- cular muscular fibres of the rectum. * I have twice dissected a perineum in which the transversus perinei was of large size, and spread out as it approached the middle line so as to become fan- shaped. The posterior fibres were continuous with those of the muscle of the opposite side; but the anterior were prolonged forwards upon the bulb and corpus spongiosum of the urethra as far as the middie of the penis, forming a broad layer which usurped the place and office of the accelerator urinas.