619 LIGAMENTS OP THE UTERUS. i breadth across its broadest part, and one in thickness, and is divisible i into fundus, body, cervix, and os uteri. At the period of puberty the 1 uterus weighs about one ounce and a half; after parturition from two ■: to three ounces ; and at the ninth month of utero-gestation from two • to four pounds. Fig. 195.* The Fundus and body are enclosed in a duplicature of peritoneum, which is connected with the sides of the pelvis, and forms a transverse I septiun between the bladder and rectum. The folds formed by this i duplicature of peritoneum on either side of the organ are the broad , ligaments of the uterus. The cervix is the lower portion of the organ; i it is distinguished from the body by a well-marked constriction ; a around its circumference is attached the upper end of the vagina, and ; at its extremity is an opening which is neairly round in the virgin, and 1 transverse after parturition, the os uteri, bounded before and behind ’ by two labia ; the anterior labium being the most thick, and the pos- I terior somewhat the longest. The opening of the os uteri is of con- I siderable size, and is named the orificium uteri externum ; the canal ■ then becomes narrowed, and at the upper end of the cervix is con- stricted into a smaller opening, the orificium intemum.f At this • The uterus with its appeudages viewed on their anterior aspect. 1. The I bod7 of the uterus. 2. Its fundus. 3. Its cervix. 4. The os uteri. 5. The t vagina ; the number is placed on the posterior raphg or columna, from which (the transverse rugae are seen passing off at each side. 6, 6. The broad ligament ^ of the uterus. 7. A convexity of the broad ligament foiined by the ovary. •8, 8. The round ligaments of the uterus. 9, 9. The Fallopian tubes. 10, 10. ■ TTie fimbriated extremities of the Fallopian tubes; on the left side the mouth ■, of the tube is turned forwards in order to show its ostium abdominale. 11. The ( ovary. 12. The utero-ovarian ligament. 13. The Fallopio-ovarian ligament, :upon which some small fimbriae are continued for a short distance. 14. The (peritoneum of the anterior surface of the uterus. This membrane is removed on ! the left side, but on the right is continuous with the anterior layer of the broad 1 ligament. + The orificium internum is not unfrequently obliterated in old persons. In- de^, this obliteration is so common, as to have induced Mayer to regard it as normal.