148 KNEE JOINT. The anterior ligament, or ligamentum patellcB, is the prolongation of the tendon of the extensor muscles of the thigh downwards to the tubercle of the tibia. It is, therefore, no ligament; and, as we have before stated that the patella is simply a sesamoid bone developed in the tendon of the extensor muscles for the defence of the front of the knee joint, the ligamentum patellae has no title to consider- ation, either as a ligament of the knee joint or as a ligament of the patella. A small bursa mucosa is situated be- tween the ligamentum patellae, near its in- sertion and the front of the tibia, and an- other of larger size is placed between the anterior surface of the patella and the fascia lata. It is the latter which is inflamed in “ housemaid’s knee.” The posterior ligament, ligamentum pos- ticum Winsloiuii, is a broad expansion of ligamentous fibres which covers the whole of the posterior part of the joint. It is divisible into two lateral portions which invest the condyles of the femur, and a central portion which is depressed, and formed by the interlacement of fasciculi passing in different directions. The strong- est of these fasciculi is that which is de rived from the tendon of fhe semi-membranosus and passes obliquely upwards and outwards, from the posterior part of the inner tuberosity of the tibia to the external condyle of the femur. Other accessory fasciculi are given off by the tendon of the popliteus and by the heads of the gastrocnemius. The middle portion of the ligament supports the popliteal artery and vein, and is perforated by several openings for the passage of branches of the azygos articular artery, and for the nerves of the joint. The internal lateral ligament is a broad and trapezoid layer of ligamentous fibres, attached above to the tubercle on the internal con- dyle of the femur, and below to the side of the inner tuberosity of the tibia. It is crossed at its lower part bj' the tendons of the inner hamstring from which it is separated by a synovial bursa, and it covers in the anterior slip of the semi-membranosus tendon and the inferior internal articular artery. External lateral ligaments.—The long external lateral ligament is a strong rounded cord, which descends from the posterior part of the * An anterior view of the ligaments of the knee joint. 1. Tlie tendon of the quadriceps extensor muscle of the leg. 2. The patella. 3. The anterior liga- ment, or ligamentum patellss, near its insertion. 4, 4. The synovial membrane. 5. The interrtal lateral ligament. 6. The long external lateral ligament. 7. The antero-superior tibio-flbular ligament.