APPENDAGES OF THE SKIN. 531 In the sensitive parts, however, and especially in the tactile papillae of the pulps of the fingers, the loop is convoluted to a greater or less ex- tent, and acts as a multiplier of sensation. appendages of the SKIN. The appendages of the skin are the nails, hairs, sebiparous glands, and perspiratory glands and ducts. The Nails are horny appendages of the skin, identical in formation with the epiderma, of which they are a part. A nail is convex on its external surface, concave within, and implanted by means of a thin margin or root in a fold of the derma (matrix), which is nearly two lines in depth, and acts the part of a follicle to the nail. At the bottom of the groove of the follicle are a number of filiform papillm, which produce the margin of the root, and, by the successive formation of new cells, push the nail onwards in its growth. The concave sur- face of the nail is in contact with the derma, and the latter is covered by papilla, which perform the double office of retaining the nail in its place, and giving it increased thickness by the addition of newly- formed cells to Its under surface. It is this constant change occurring in the under surface of the nail, co-operating with the continual repro- duction taking place along the margin of the root, which ensures the growth of the nail in the proper direction. The nail derives a peculi- arity of appearance from the disposition and form of the papilla on the ungual surface of the denna. Thus, beneath the root, and for a short distance onwards towards its middle, the derma is covered by papilla which are more minute, and consequently less vascular than the papilla somewhat farther on. This patch of papilla is bounded by a semilunar line, and that part of the nail covering it being lighter in co- lour than the rest, has been termed lumda. Beyond the lunula the papilla are raised into longitudinal plaits, which are exceedingly vas- cular, and give a deeper tint of redness to the nail. These plait-like papilla of the derma are well calculated by their form to offer an ex- tensive surface both for the adhesion and formation of the nail. The granules and cells are developed on every part of their surface, both in the grooves between the plaits and on their sides, and a horny lamina is formed between each pair of plaits. When the under surface of a nail is examined, these longitudinal laminae, corresponding with the longitudinal papillae of the ungual portion of the derma, are distinctly apparent, and if the nail be forcibly detached, the laminae may be seen in the act of parting from the grooves of the papillm. It is this struc- ture that gives rise to the ribbed appearance of the nail. The papillary surface of the derma which produces the nail is continuous around the circumference of the attached part of that organ with the derma of the - surrounding skin, and the homy structure of the nail is consequently ' continuous with that of the epiderma. Hairs are horny appendages of the skin produced by the involution and subsequent evolution of the epiderma ; the involution constituting