It t FASCL12 OF THE HEAD AND NECK. tion of the fluids in opposition to the laws of gravity; and in the palm of the hand and sole of the foot is a powerful protection to the struc- tures which enter into the composition of these regions. In some situations its tension is regulated by muscular action, as by the tensor vaginm femoris and gluteus maximus in the thigh, by the biceps in the leg, and by the biceps and palmaris longus in the arm; in other situa- tions it affords an extensive surface for the origin of the fibres of muscles. The fasciae may be arranged like the other textures of the body into 1. Those of the head and neck. 2. Those of the trunk. 3. Those of the upper extremity. 4. Those of the lower extremity. FASCIA OF THE HEAD AND NECK. The Te.hporal fascla is a strong aponeurotic membrane which covers in the temporal muscle at each side of the head, and gives origin by its internal surface to some of its muscular fibres. It is attached to the whole extent of the temporal ridge above, and to the zygomatic arch below ; in the latter situation it is thick and divided into two layers, the external being connected to the upper border of the arch, and the internal to its inner surface. A small quantity of fat is usually found between these two layers, together with the orbital branch of the temporal artery. Cervical fascia.—The fasciae of the neck are the superficial and the deep. The superficial cervical fascia is a part of the common superficial fascia of the entire body, and is only interesting from con- taining between its layers the platysma myoides muscle. The deep cervical fascia is a strong areolo-fibrous layer which in- vests the muscles of the neck, and retains and supports the vessels and nerves. It commences posteriorly at the ligamentum nuchae, and passes forwards at each side beneath the trapezius muscle to the posterior border of the stemo-mastoid ; here it divides into two layers, which embrace that muscle and unite upon its anterior border to be prolonged onwards to the middle line of the neck, where it becomes continuous with the fascia of the opposite side. Besides thus constituting a sheath for the stemo-mastoid, it also forms sheaths for the other muscles of the neck over which it passes. If the superficial layer of the sheath of the stemo-mastoid be traced upwards, it will be found to pass over the parotid gland and masseter muscle, and to be inserted into the zygo- matic arch ; and if it be traced downwards, it will be seen to pass in front of the clavicle, and become lost upon the pectoralis major muscle. If the deep layer of the sheath be examined superiorly, it will be found attached to the styloid process, from which it is reflected to the angle of the lower jaw, forming the stylo-maxillary ligament; and if it be followed downwards, it will be found connected with the tendon