G22 FALLOPIAN TUBES.—OVARIES. at the free extremity, and narrower in the middle than at either end. Each tiihe is about four or five inches in length, and more or less flexuous in its course. The canal of the Fallopian tube is exceedingly minute; its inner extremity opens by means of the ostium uterinum into the upper angle of the cavity of the uterus, and the opposite end into the cavity of the peritoneum. The free or expanded extremity of the Fallopian tube presents a double and sometimes a triple series of small processes or fringes, which surround the margin of the trumpet or funnel-shaped opening, the ostium abdominale. This fringe-like appendage to the end of the tube has gained for it the appellation of the fimbriated extremity; and the remarkable manner in which this circular fringe applies itself to the surface of the ovary during sexual excitement, the additional title of jnorsus diaholi. A short ligamen- tous cord proceeds from the fimbriated extremity to be attached to the distal end of the ovary, and serves to guide the tube in its seizure of that organ. The Fallopian tube is composed of three timics, an external and loose investment derived from the peritoneum; a middle or muscular coat, consisting of circular [internal] and longitudinal [external] fibres, continuous with those of the uterus; and an internal or lining mucous membrane, which is continuous on the one hand with the mucous membrane of the uterus, and at the opposite extremity with the peri- toneum. In the minute canal of the tube the mucous membrane is thrown into longitudinal folds or rugae, which indicate the adaptation of the tube for dilatation. Tlie Ovaries are two oblong flattened and oval bodies of a whitish colour, situated in the posterior layer of peritoneum of the broad liga- ments. They are connected to the upper angles of the uterus at each side bj"^ means of a rounded cord, consisting chiefly of muscular fibres derived from the uterus, the ligament of the ovary. By the opposite extremity they are connected by another and a shorter ligament to the fimbriated aperture of the Fallopian tube. In structure the ovary is composed of a cellulo-fibrous parenchj'ma or stroma, traversed by blood-vessels, and enclosed in a capsule con- sisting of three layers; a vascular layer, which is situated most inter- nally, and sends processes inwards to the interior of the organ; a middle or fibrous layer of considerable density, and an external invest- ment of peritoneum. In the cells of the stroma of the ovary the small vesicles or ovisacs of the future ova, the Graafian vesicles, as they have been termed, are developed. There are usually about fifteen fully formed Graafian vesicles in each ovary; and Dr. Martin Barry has shewn that countless numbers of microscopic ovisacs exist in the parenchyma of the organ, and that very few out of these are perfected so as to produce ova. After conception, a yellow spot, the corpus luteum, is found in one or both ovaries. The corpus luteum is a globidar mass of yellow, spongy tissue, traversed by white areolar bands, and containing in its centre a small cavity, more or less obliterated, which was originally