348 EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY, The external iliac artery of each side passes oblifjuely downwards along the inner border of tlie psoas muscle, from opposite the sacro- iliac symphysis to the femoral arch, where it becomes the femoral artery. Relations.—It is in relation in front with the spermatic vessels, the peritoneum, and a thin layer of fascia, derived from the iliac fascia, which surrounds the artery and vein. At its commencement it is crossed by the ureter, and near its termination bj^ the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve and the circumflexa ilii vein. Externally it lies against the psoas muscle, from which it is separated by the iliac fascia ; and posteriorly it is in relation with the external iliac vein, which, at the femoral arch, becomes placed to its inner side. The artery is surrounded throughout the whole of its course by lymphatic vessels and glands. Branches.—Besides several small branches which supply the glands surrounding the artery, the external iliac gives off two branches, the— Epigastric, Circumflexa ilii. The Epigastrie artery arises from the external iliac near Poupart’s ligament; and passing forwards between the peritoneum and trans- versalis fascia, ascends obliquely to the sheath of the rectus. It enters the sheath near its lower third, passes upwards behind the rectus muscle, to which it is distributed, and in the substance of that muscle inosculates, near the ensiform cartilage, with the termination of the internal mammary artery. It lies internally to the internal abdominal ring and immediately above the femoral ring, and is crossed near its origin by the vas deferens in the male, and by the round liga- ment in the female. The only branches of the epigastric artery worthy of distinct notice are the Cremasteric, which accompanies the spermatic cord and supplies the cremaster muscle ; and the ramusculus which inosculates with the obturator artery. The Epigastric artery forms a prominence of the peritoneum which divides the iliac fossa into an internal and an external portion; it is from the former that direct inguinal hernia issues, and from the latter, oblique inguinal hernia. The Circumflexa ilii arises from the outer side of the external iliac, nearly opposite the epigastric artery. It ascends obliquely along Poupart’s ligament, and curving around the crest of the ilium between the attachments of the internal oblique and transversalis muscle, inos- culates with the ilio-lumbar and inferior lumbar arterj\ Opposite the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, it gives off a lai^ ascending branch which passes upwards between tbe internal oblique and transversalis, and divides into numerous branches which supply