MUSCLES OF THE TYMPANUM. 516 which connects the margin of the foot of the stapes with the circum- ference of the fenestra ovalis. These ligaments have been described as muscles, by Mr. Tod, under the names of superior capitis mallei, obliquus incudis externus posterior, and musculus vel structura sta - pedii inferior. The Muscles of the tympanum are four in number, the— Tensor tyrapani, Laxator tympani, Laxator tympani minor. Stapedius. The Tensor tympani (musculus intemus mallei) arises from the spinous process of the sphenoid, from the petrous portion of the tem- poral bone, and from the Eustachian tube, and passes forwards in a distinct canal, separated from the tube by the processus cochleari- formis, to be inserted into the handle of the malleus, immediately be- low the commencement of the processus gracilis. The Laacator tympani (musculus externus mallei) arises from the spinous process of the sphenoid bone, and passes through an opening in the fissura Glaseri, to be inserted into the long process of the malleus. This is regarded as a ligament by some anatomists. The Laxator tympani minor arises from the upper margin of the meatus, and is inserted into the handle of the malleus, near the pro- cessus brevis. This is regarded as a ligament by some anatomists. The Stapedius arises from the interior of the pyramid, and escapes from its summit to be inserted into the neck of the stapes. Foramina.—The openings in the tympanum are ten in number,^ue large andyiue small; they are— Large Openings. Meatus auditorius. Fenestra ovalis. Fenestra rotunda. Mastoid cells, Eustachian tube. Small Openings. i Entrance of the chorda tympani, j Exit of the chorda tympani, i For the laxator tympani. For the tensor tympani. For the stapedius. The opening of the meatus auditorius has been already described. The Fenestra ovalis (fenestra vestibuli),. is a reniform opening, situated at the bottom of a small oval fossa (the pelvis ovalis), in the upper part of the inner wall of the tympanum, directly opposite the meatus. The long diameter of the fenestra is directed horizontally, and its convex borders upwards. It is the opening of communication between the tympanum and vestibule, and is closed by the foot of the stapes and by the lining membranes of both cavities. The Fenestra rotunda (fenestra cochleae) is somewhat triangular in its form, and situated in the inner wall of the tympanum, below and