194 SCALENUS POSTICUS. omo-hyoid muscle, with the cervicalis superficialis and posterior sca- pular artery, with the phrenic nerve, and with the subclavian vein, bj'' which it is separated from the subclavius muscle and clavicle. By its posterior surface with the nerves which go to form the brachial plexus, and below with the subclavian artery. By its inner svle it is separated from the longus colli by the vertebral artery. Its relations with the subclavian artery and vein are very important, the vein being before and the artery behind the muscle.” The Scalenus posticus arises from the cervical vertebrae excepting the first. Fig. 91.t the posterior tubercles of all It is inseHed by two fleshy fasciculi into the first and second ribs. The anterior (scalenus medius) of the two fasciculi is large, and occupies all the surface of the first rib between the groove for the subclatdan artery and the tuberosity. The posterior (scalenus pos- ticus) is small, and is at- tached to the second rib. Albinus and Soemmering make five scaleni. Relations.—By its ante- rior surface with the bra- chial plexus and subclavian artery; posteriorly with the levator anguli scapulae, cer- vicalis ascendens, transver- salis colli and sacro-lum- balis ; internally with the first intercostal muscle, the first rib, the mter-trans- verse muscles, and cerncal vertebrae ; and externally with the sterno-mastoid, omo-h3'oid, and supra-sca- pular and posterior scapular arteries. * In a subject dissected in the schooi of the Middlesex hospital during the winter of 1841 by Mr. Joseph Bogers, the subclavian artery of the left side was placed with the vein in front of the scalenus anticus muscle. t The praevertebral group of muscles of the neck. 1. The rectus anticus major muscle. 2. The scalenus anticus. 3. The lower part of the longus colli of the right side; it is concealed superiorly by the rectus anticus major. 4. The rectus anticus minor. 5. The upper portion of the longus colli muscle. 6. Its lower portion; the figure rests upon the seventh cervical vertebi'a. 7. The scale- nus posticus. 8. The rectus lateralis of the left side. 9. One of the inter-trans- versales muscles.