oO'G FORAMEN OF WINSLOW.—O.MENTUM.—MESO-COLON. artery to the left, the duct to the right, and the vein between and behind. If the finger be introduced behind this right border of the lesser omentum, it will be situated in an opening called the foranvm of Winslow.* In front of the finger will lie the right border of the lesser omentum ; behind it the diaphragm, covered by the ascending or posterior layer of the peritoneum ; below, the hepatic artery, curving forwards from the coeliac axis ; and oLove, the lobus Spigelii. These, therefore, are the boundaries of the foramen of Winslow, which is no- thing more than a constriction of the general cavity of the peritoneum at this point, arising out of the necessity for the hepatic and gastric arteries to pass forwards from the coeliac axis to reach their respective viscera. If air be blown through the foramen of Winslow, it will descend behind the lesser omentum and stomach to the space between the descending and ascending pair of layers, forming the great omentum. This is sometimes called the lesser cavity of the peritoneum, and that external to the foramen the greater cavity ; in which case the fora- men is considered as the means of communication between the two. There is a great objection to this division, as it might lead the inex- perienced to believe that there were really two cavities. There is but one only, the foramen of Winslow being merely a constriction of that one, to facilitate the communication between the nutrient arteries and the viscera of the upper part of the abdomen. The Great omentum consists oifour layers of peritoneum, the two which descend from the stomach, and the same two, returning upon themselves to the transverse colon. A quantity of adipose substance is deposited around the vessels which ramify through its structure. It would appear to perform a double function in the economy. 1st. Protecting the intestines from cold ; and, 2ndly. Facilitating the movement of the intestines upon each other during their vermicular action. The Transverse meso-colon {[ttiro;, middle, being attached to the middle of the cylinder of the intestine) is the medium of connection between the transverse colon and the posterior wall of the abdomen. It also affords to the nutrient arteries a passage to reach the intestine, and encloses between its layers, at the posterior part, the transverse portion of the duodenum. The Mesentery {ykrat evn^ov, being connected to the middle of the cylinder of the small intestine) is the medium of connection between the small intestines and the posterior wall of the abdomen. It is ob- lique in its direction, being attached to the posterior wall, from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra to the right iliac fossa. It retains the small intestines in their places, and gives passage to the mesenteric arteries, veins, nerves, and Ijnnphatics. * Jacob Benignus Winslow: his “ Exposition Anatomique de la Structure du Corps Humain” was published in Paris in 1732.