550 STRUCTURE OF THE UUNOS. which extends obliquely forwards from the middle of the preceding to the anterior border of the organ, and marks oif a small triangular lobe. The right lung is larger than the left, in consequence of the inclina- tion of the heart to the left side. It is also shorter, from the great convexity of the liver, which presses the diaphragm upwards upon the right side of the chest considerably above the level of the left; and has three lobes. The left lung is smaller, has but two lobes, but is longer than the right. Each lung is retained in its place by its root^ which is formed b}’’ the pulmonary artery, pulmonary veins and bronchial tubes, together with the bronchial vessels and pulmonary plexuses of nerves. The large vessels of the root of each lung are arranged in a similar order from before, backwards, on both sides, viz. Pulmonary veins. Pulmonary artery. Bronchus. From above, downwards, on the right side, this order is exactly re- versed ; but on the left side, the bronchus has to stoop beneath the arch of the aorta, which alters its position to the vessels. They are thus disposed on the two sides ;— Right. Bronchus, Arter}’', Veins. Left. Artery, Bronchus, Veins. Structure.—The lungs are composed of the ramifications of the bronchial tubes which terminate in intercellular passages and air-cells, of the ramifications of the pulmonary artery and veins, bronchial ar- teries and veins, lymphatics and nerves ; the whole of these structures, being held together by areolo-fibrous tissue, constitute the parenchyma. The parenchyma of the lungs, when examined on the surface or by means of a section, is seen to consist of small polyhedral divisions, or lobules, which are connected to each other by an inter-lobular areolar tissue. These lobules again consist of smaller lobules, and the latter are formed by a cluster of air-cells, in the parietes of which the capillaries of the pulmonary artery and pulmonary veins are distri- buted. Bronchial Tubes.—The two bronchi proceed from the bifurcation of the trachea to their corresponding lungs. The right takes its course nearly at right angles with the trachea, and enters the upper part of the right lung; while the left, longer and smaller than the right, passes obliquely beneath the arch of the aorta, and enters the lung at about the middle of its root. Upon entering the lungs thej' divide into two branches, and each of these divides and subdivides dichoto- mously to their ultimate termination in the intercellular passages and air-cells.