SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONES. 42 I'tg. 23.* The hody is triangular in form, and hollowed in its interior into a large cavity, the antrum maxillare (antrum of Highmore). It presents for examination four sur- faces, external or facial, internal or nasal, posterior or zygomatic, and superior or orbital. The external, or facial surface, forms the anterior part of the bone; it is irregularly concave, and pre- sents a deep depression towards its centre, the caninefossa, which gives attachment to two muscles, the com- pressor nasi and levator anguli oris. Immediately above this fossa is the infra-orbital foramen, the termi- nation of the infra-orbital canal, transmitting the superior maxillary nerve and inffa-orbital artery ; and above the infra-orbital foramen, the lower margin of the orbit, continu- ous externally with the rough arti- cular surface of the malar process, and internally with a thick ascend- ing plate, the nasal process. Towards the middle line of the face this surface is bounded % the concave border of the opening of the nose, which is projected forwards at its inferior termination into a sharp process, forming, with a similar process of the opposite bone, the na- sal spine. Beneath the nasal spine, and above the two superior incisor teeth, is a slight depression, the incisive, or myrliform fossa, which gives origin to the depressor labii superioris alaeque nasi muscle. The myrtiform fossa is divided from the canine fossa by a perpen- dicular ridge, corresponding with the direction of the root of the canine tooth. The inferior boundary of the facial surface is the alveolar process which contains the teeth of the upper jaw ; and it is separated from the zygomatic surface by a strong projecting eminence, the malar process. The internal, or nasal surface, presents a large irregular opening, leading into the antrum maxillare; this opening is nearly closed in the * The superior maxillary bone of the right side, as seen from the lateral aspect. 1. The external or facial surface; the depression in which the figure is placed is the canine fossa. 2. The posterior, or zygomatic surface. 3. The superior or orbUal surface. 4. The infra-orbital foramen ; it is situated imme- diately below "the number. 5. The infra-orbital canal, leading to the infra- orbital foramen. 6. The inferior border of the orbit. 7. The malar process. 8. The nasal process. 9. The concavity forming the lateral boundnrj- of the anterior nares. 10. The nasal spine. 11. The incisive, or myrtifoim fossa. 12. The alveolar process. 13. The internal border of the orbital surface, which articulates with the ethmoid and palate bone. 14. The concavity which arti- culates with the lachrjnnal bone, and forms the commencement of the nasal duct. 16. The crista nasalis of the palate process, i. The two incisor teeth, c. The canine, b. The two bicuspidatl. m. The three molares.