522 HCALA TYMl’ANI ET VE.STIBULI. the office of a periosteum hy its exterior, whilst it fulfils the purpose of a serous membrane by its internal layer, secreting a limpid fluid, the aqua labyrinthi (liquor Cotunnii), and sending a reflection inwards upon the nerves distributed to Fi{j. 165.* the membranous labyrinth. In the cochlea the membrane of the labyrinth invests the two surfaces of the bony lamina spi- ralis, and being continued from its border across the diameter of the canal to its outer wall, forms tlie membranous lamina spiralis, and completes the sepa- ration between the scala tym- pani and scala vestibuU. The fenestra ovabs and fenestra ro- tunda are closed by an exten- sion of this membrane across them, assisted by the membrane of the tjTupanum and a proper intermediate layer. Besides lining the interior of the osseous cavity, the membrane of the labyrinth sends two delicate * The labyrinth of the left ear, laid open, in order to show its cavities and the membranous labyrinth. After Breschet. 1. The cavity of the ves- tibule, opened from its anterior aspect in order to show the three-cornered form of its interior, and the membranous labyrinth which it contains. The figure rests upon the common saccule of the membranous labyrinth,—the sac- culus communis. 2. The ampulla of the superior or perpendicular semicir- cular canal, receiving a nervous fasciculus from the superior branch of the vesti- bular nerve, .S. 4. The superior or perpendicular canaJ with its contained mem- branous canal. 5. The ampulla of the inferior or horizontal semicircular canal, receiving a nervous fasciculus from the superior branch of the vestibular nerve. 6. The tennination of the membranous canal of the horizontal semi- circular canal in the sacculus communis. 7. The ampulla of the middle or oblique semicircular canal, receiving a nervous fasciculus from the inferior branch of the vestibular nerve. 8. The oblique semicircular canal with its membranous canal. 9. The common canal, resulting from the union of the perpendicular with the oblique semicircular canal. 10. The membranous common canal terminating in the sacculus communis. 11. The otoconite of the sacculus communis seen through the membranous parietes of that sac. A nervous fasciculus from the inferior branch of the vestibular nerve is seen to be distributed to the sacculus communis near the otoconite. The extre-; mity of the sacculus above the otoconite is lodged in the superior ventricle of the vestibule, and that below it in the inferior ventricle. 12. The sacculus pro- prius situated in the anterior ventricle ; its otoconite is seen through its mem-' ] branous parietes, and a nervous fasciculus derived from the middle branch ofi. the vestibular nerve is distributed to it. The spaces around the membranous labyrinth are occupied by the aqua labyrinthi. 13. The first turn of the cochlea; the figure points to the scala tympani. 14. The extremity of the scala t3rmpani con-esponding with the fenestra rotmida. 15. The lamina* spiralis ; the figure is situated in the scala vestibuli. 16. The opening of the'J