DEVELOPMENT OF TEETH. 66 found filled up and obliterated by osseous substance analogous to the cementum. Mr. Nasmyth has shewn that this, like the other struc- tures composing a tooth, is formed of cells having a reticular arrange- ment. Development.—The development of the teeth in the human subject has been successfully investigated by Mr. Goodsir, to whose interesting researches I am indebted for the following narrative;—* The inquiries of Mr. Goodsir commenced as early as the sixth week after conception, in an embryo, which measured seven lines and a half in length, and weighed fifteen grains. At this early period each upper jaw presents two semicircular folds around its circumference ; the most external is the true lip ; the internal, the rudiment of the palate; and between these is a deep groove, lined by the common mucous membrane of the mouth. A little later, a ridge is developed from the floor of this groove in a direction from behind forwards ; this is the rudiment of the external alveolus; and the arrangement of the appear- ances from without inwards at this period is the following:—Most externally and forming the boundary of the mouth, is the lip; next we find a deep groove, which separates the lip from the future jaw; then comes the eoderjial alveolar ridge; fourthly, another groove, in which the germs of the teeth are developed, the primitive dental groove; fifthly, a rudiment of the internal alveolar ridge; and, sixthly, the rudiment of the future palate bounding the whole in- ternally. At the seventh week the germ of the first deciduous molar of the upper jaw has made its appearance, in the form of a “ simple, free, granular papilla” of the mucous membrane, projecting from the floor of the primitive dental groove; at the eighth week, the papilla of the canine tooth is developed; at the ninth week, the papillae of the four incisors (the middle preceding the lateral) appear ; and at the tenth week the papilla of the second molar is seen behind the anterior molar in the primitive dental groove. So that at this early period, viz. the tenth week, the papillae or germs of the whole ten deciduous teeth of the upper jaw are quite distinct. Those of the lower jaw are a little more tardy; the papilla of the first molar is merely a slight bulging at the seventh week, and the tenth papilla is not apparent until the eleventh week. From about the eighth week the primitive dental groove becomes contracted before and behind the first deciduous molar, and laminae of the mucous membrane are developed around the other papillae, which increase in growth and enclose the papillae in follicles with open mouths. At the tenth week the follicle of the first molar is com- pleted, then, that of the canine ; during the eleventh and twelfth weeks the follicles of the incisors succeed, and at the thirteenth week the follicle of the posterior deciduous molar. During the thirteenth week the papillm undergo an alteration of • “On the Origin and Development of the Pulps and Sacs of the Human Teeth,” by John Goodsir, jun., in the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, January, 1839.