395 LACTEALS. and left extremities of the organ, and of the coronary ligament in the middle. Some of these pierce the diaphragm and join the posterior mediastinal glands ; others converge to the lymphatic glands situated around the inferior cava. Those which pass from behind forwards consist of two groups; one ascends between the folds of the broad ligament, and perforates the diaphragm, to terminate in the anterior mediastinal glands ; the other curves around the anterior margin of the liver to its concave smface, and from thence to the glands in the right border of the lesser omentum. The lymphatic vessels of the concave smface are variously distributed, according to their position ; those from the right lobe terminate in the lumbar glands ; those from the gall-bladder, which are large and form a remai-kable plexus, enter the glands in the right border of the lesser omentum ; and those from the left lobe converge to the lymphatic glands situated along the lesser cimve of the stomach. The Lymphatic glands of the spleen are situated around its hilus, and those of the pancreas in the course of the splenic vein. The lymphatic vessels of these organs pass through their respective glands, and join the aortic glands, previously to terminating in the thoracic duct. The Lymphatic glands of the stomach sxe of small size, and are situated along the lesser and greater curves of that organ. The lymphatic vessels, as in other viscera, are superficial and deep, the fonner originating in the subserous and the latter in the submucous tissue ; they pass from the stomach in four different directions: some ascend to the glands, situated along the lesser curve, others descend to those occupying the greater curve, a third set pass outwards to the splenic glands, and a fourth to the glands situated near the pylorus and to the aortic glands. The Lymphatic glands of the small intestine are situated between the layers of the mesentery, in the meshes formed by the superior mesen- teric arterj^, and are thence named mesenteric glands. These glands are most munerous and largest, superiorly, near the duodenum ; and, in- feriorly, near the termination of the ileum. The Lymphatic vessels of the small intestines are of two kinds: those of the structure of the intestines, which run upon its siu-face previ- ously to entering the mesenteric glands ; and those which commence in the villi, in the substance of the mucous membrane, and are named lac teals. The Lacteals, according to Henle, commence in the centre of each villus as a csecal tubulus, which opens into a fine network, situated in the sub-mucous tissue. From this areolar network the lacteal vessels proceed to the mesenteric glands, and from thence to the thoracic duct, in which they terminate. The Lymphatic glands of the large intestines axe situated along the attached margin of the intestine, in the meshes formed by the colic and hcEmorrhoidal arteries previously to their distribution. The lym- phatic vessels take their course in two different directions; those of the caecum, ascending and transverse colon, after traversing their pro-