ANTERIOR HRACHIAL REGION. 238 beneath the annular ligament into the palm of the hand, and are inserted into the base of the second phalanges of the fingers, splitting at their terminations to give passage to the tendons of the deep flexors; thence its designation, perforatus. In the thecm of the fingers several small tendinous fasciculi are generally found, which pass between the phalanges and the edges of the tendons; these have been termed the vincula accessoria. Relations.—In the fore-arm. By its anterior surface with the pronator radii teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, flexor carpi ulnaris, and the deep fascia. By its posterior surface with the flexor profundus digitorum, flexor longus pollicis, ulnar artery, veins, and nerve, and median nerve. This muscle frequently sends a fasciculus to the flexor longus pollicis or flexor profundus. In the hand; its tendons, after passing beneath the annular ligament, are in relation superficially with the superficial palmar arch, and palmar fascia; and deeply with the tendons of the deep flexor and lumbricales. The Flexor carpi ulnaris arises by two heads, one from the inner condyle, the other from the olecranon and upper two-thirds of the inner border of the ulna. Its tendon is inserted into the pisiform bone, and base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the fascia of the fore-arm, with which it is closely united superiorly. By its posterior surface with the flexor sublimis digitorum, flexor profundus, pronator quadra- tus, and ulnar artery, veins, and nerve. By its radial border with the palmaris longus, and in the lower third of the fore-arm with the ulnar vessels and nerve. The ulnar nerve, and the posterior ulnar recurrent artery, pass between its two heads of origin. Deep layer. Flexor profundus digitorum. Flexor longus pollicis. Pronator quadratus. Dissection.—This group is brought into view by removing the flexor sublimis, and drawing aside the pronator radii teres. The Flexor profundus digitorum (perforans) arises from the upper two-thirds of the ulna and part of the interosseous membrane, and terminates in four tendons, which pass beneath the annular liga- ment, and between the two slips of the tendons of the flexor sublimis (hence its designation, perforans), to be inserted into the base of the last phalanges. The tendon of the index finger is always distinct from the rest, the other three tendons being more or less intimately connected by areolar' tissue and tendinous slips. Four little muscular fasciculi, called lumJrricales, are connected with the tendons of this muscle in the palm. They will be described with the muscles of the hand. Relations.—In the fore-arm. By its anterior surface with the flexor