607 CORPUS CAVERNOSUM. looseness of its areolar connexion with the deeper parts of the organ, and for containing no adipose tissue. The root is broad, and firmly adherent to the rami of the ossa pubis and ischia by means of two strong processes, the crura, and is connected to the symphysis pubis by a fibrous membrane, the ligamentum suspensorium. The extremity^ or glatis penis, resembles an obtuse cone, somewhat compressed from above downwards, and of a deeper red colour than the surrounding skin. At its apex is a small vertical slit, the meatus urinarius, which is bounded by two, more or less protuberant, labia ; and, extending backwards from the meatus, is a depressed raphd, to which is at- tached a loose fold of mucous membrane, the frrnnum prmputii. The base of the glans is marked by a projecting collar, the corona glandis, upon which are seen a number of small papillary elevations, the glanduhe Tysoni (odoriferse). Behind the corona is a deep fossa, bounded by a circular fold of integument, the prceputium, which, in the quiescent state of the organ, may be drawn over the glans, but, in its distended state, is obliterated, and serves to facilitate its enlarge- ment. The internal surface of the prepuce is lined by mucous mem- brane, covered by a thin epithelium ; this membrane, on reaching the base of the glans, is reflected over the glans penis, and, at the meatus urinarius, is continuous with the mucous lining of the urethra. The penis is composed of the corpus cavernosum and corpus spon- giosum, and contains in its interior the longest portion of the urethra. The Corpus cavernosum is distinguished into two lateral portions (corpora cavernosa) by an imperfect septum and by a superior and inferior groove, and is divided posteriorly into two crura. It is firmly adlierent, by means of its crura, to the rami of the ossa pubis and ischia. It forms, anteriorly, a single rounded extremity, which is received into a fossa in the base of the glans penis ; the superior groove lodges the dorsal vessels of the organ, and the inferior receives the corpus spongiosum. Its fibrous tunic is thick, elastic, and ex- tremely firm, and sends a number of fibrous bands and cords (tra- beculae) inwards from its inferior groove, which cross its interior in a radiating direction, and are inserted into the inner walls of the tunic. These trabeculae are most abundant on the middle line, where they are ranged vertically, side by side, somewhat like the teeth of a comb, and constitute the imperfect partition of the corpus cavernosum, called septum pectiniforme- This septum is more complete at its posterior than towards its anterior part. The tunic of the corpus cavernosum consists of strong longitudinal fibrous fasciculi, closely interwoven with each other. Its internal structure is composed of erectile tissue. The Corpus spongiosum is situated along the under surface of the corpus cavernosum, in its inferior groove. It commences by its pos- terior extremity between and beneath the crura penis, where it forms a considerable enlargement, the bidb, and terminates anteriorly by another expansion, the glans penis. Its middle portion, or body, is nearly cylindrical, and tapers gradually from its posterior towards its