BRAIN.—MEMBRANES. 407 into 1. The brain. 2. The spinal cord. 3. The cranial nerves. 4. The spinal nerves. 5. The sympathetic system. THE BRAIN. The brain is a collective term which signifies those parts of the nervous system, exclusive of the nerves themselves, which are contain- ed within the cranium; they are the cerebrum, cerebellum, and me- dulla oblongata.* These are invested and protected by the membranes of the brain, and the whole together constitute the encephalon (Iv xi(pxXh, within the head). MEMBRANES OF THE ENCEPHALON. Dissection.—To examine the encephalon with its membranes, the upper part of the skull must be removed, by sawing through the ex- ternal table and breaking the internal table with the chisel and ham- mer. After the calvarium has been loosened all round, it will require a considerable degree of force to tear the bone away from the dura mater. This adhesion is particularly firm at the sutures, where the dura mater is continuous with a membranous layer interposed between the edges of the bones ; in other situations, the connection results from numerous vessels which permeate the inner table of the skull. The adhesion subsisting between the dura mater and bone is greater in the young subject and in old persons than in the adult. On being tom away, the internal table will present numerous deeply grooved and ramified channels, corresponding with the branches of the arteria meningea media. Along the middle line will be seen a groove corresponding with the superior longitudinal sinus, and on either side may be frequently observed some small fossae, corresponding with the Pacchionian bodies. The membranes of the encephalon are the dura mater, arachnoid membrane, and pia mater. The Dura maters is the firm, whitish or grej'ish layer which is brought into view when the calvarium is removed. It is a strong fibrous membrane, somewhat laminated in texture, and composed of white fibrous tissue. Lining the interior of the cranium, it serves as the internal periosteum of that cavity; it is prolonged also into the spinal column, under the name of theca vertebralis, but is not adherent to the bones in that canal as in the cranium. From the internal sur- face of the dura mater, processes are directed 'inwards for the support and protection of parts of the brain ; while from its exterior, other pro- • The weight of the human brain, according to Scemmering, is 2 ft. SJJ. to 3ft. I3. T3. t So named from a supposition that it was the source of all the fibrous mem- branes of the body