LY.MFHATICS Of THE TRUNK. 393 The Superjicial lymphatic wssels of the upper half of the trunk pass upwards and outwards on each side, and converge, some to the axillary glands, and others to the glands at the root of the neck. The lym- phatics from the mammary glands follow the lower border of the pec- toralis major, communicating, by means of a chain of lymphatic glands, with the axillary glands. The superficial lymphatic vessels of the lower half of the trunk, of the gluteal region, perineum, and external organs of generation, converge to the superior group of superficial inguinal glands. Some small glands are situated on each side of the dorsal vein of the penis, near the suspensory ligament; from these, as from the superficial lymphatics, the efferent vessels pass into the superior group of superficial inguinal glands. The Detp lymphatic glands of the thorax are the intercostal, internal mammar}', anterior mediastinal, and posterior mediastinal. The'Intercostal glands are of small size, and are situated on each side of the vertebral column, near the articulations of the heads of the ribs, and in the course of the intercostal arteries. The Internal mammary glands also very small, are placed in the intercostal spaces, by the side of the internal mammary arteries. The Anterior mediastinal glands occupy the loose areolar tissue of the anterior mediastinum, resting some on the diaphragm^ but the greater number on the large vessels at the root of the heart. The Posterior mediastinal glands are situated along the course of the aorta and oesophagus in the posterior mediastinum, and communicate above wth the deep cervical glands, on each side with the intercostal and below with the abdominal glands. The Deep lymphatic vessels of the thorax are the intercostal, internal mammarj', and diaphragmatic. The Intercostal lymphatic vessels follow the course of the arteries of the same name ; and reaching the vertebral column curve downwards, to terminate in the thoracic duct. The Internal mammary lymphatics commence in the parietes of the abdomen, communicating with the epigastric lymphatics. They as- cend by the side of the internal mammary vessels, being joined in their course by the anterior intercostals, and terminate at the root of the neck, on the right side in the tributaries of the ductus lymphaticus dexter, and on the left in the thoracic duct. The diaphragmatic lym- phatics pursue the direction of their corresponding veins, and tenninate some in front in the internal mammary vessels, and some behind, in the posterior mediastinal Ijnnphatics. The Deep lymphatic glands of the abdomen are the lumbar glands ; they are very numerous, and are seated aroimd the common iliac ves- sels, the aorta and vena cava. The deep lymphatic glands of the pelvis are the external iliac, inter- nal iliac and sacral. The Eatemal iliac are placed around the external iliac vessels, being in continuation by one extremity with the femoral lymphatics, and by the other with the lumbar glands.