13 VERTEBRA PROMINENS. Fig. 7. ment; the latter surface constricts the base of the process, which has given rise to the term neck applied to this part. Upon each side of its apex is a rough depression, for the attachment of the alar ligaments ; and running down from its base on the anterior surface of the body of the vertebra a vertical ridge, with a depression at each side for the at- tachment of the longus colli muscle. The lamince are large and strong, and unite posteriorly to fonn a long and bifid spinous process, which is concave beneath. The transverse processes are quite rudimentary, not bifid, and project only so far as to enclose the vertebral foramen, which is directed obliquely out- wards instead of perpendicularly as in the other vertebrae. The su- perior articulating processes are situated upon the body of the vertebra on each side of the odontoid process. They are circular and nearly horizontal, having a slight inclination outwards. The inferior articu- lating processes look downwards and forwards, as do the same processes in the other cervical vertebrae. The superior intervertebral notch is remarkably shallow, and lies behind the articular process as in the atlas. The lower surface of the body is convex, and is received into the concavity upon the upper surface of the third vertebra. The Vertebra prominens, or seventh cervical, approaches in character to the upper dorsal vertebrae. It has received its designation from having a very long spinous process, which is single and terminated by a tubercle, and forms a considerable projection on the back part of the neck ; to the extremity of this process the ligamentum nuchae is at- tached. The transverse processes are but slightly grooved along the upper surface, have each a small foramen for the transmission of the vertebral vein, and present only a rudimentary bifurcation at their extremity. Sometimes the anterior tubercle represents a small but distinct rib. Dorsal VerteJjrce.—The body of a dorsal vertebra is as long from before backwards as from side to side, particularly in the middle of the dorsal region; it is thicker behind than before, and marked on each side by two lialf-articulating surfaces for the heads of two ribs. The * A lateral view of the axis. 1. The body; the figure is placed on the de- pression which gives attachment to the longus colli. 2. The odontoid process. 3. The smooth facet on the anterior surface of the odontoid process which arti- culates with the anterior arch of the atlas; the facet for the transverse ligament is beneath No. 2, where the constriction called the neck of the odontoid process is seen; the bulk of the process between 2, 3, would represent its head. 4. The lamina. .5. The spinous process. 6. The transverse process, pierced obliquely by the vertebral foramen. 7. The superior articular surface. 8. The inferior articular process.