•280 INGUINAL HERNIA. tissue. It is attached inferiorly to the reflected margin of Poupart’s ligament and to the crest of the ilium ; internally to the border of the rectus muscle; and,at the inner third of thefemond arch, is continued beneath Poupart’s ligament, and forms the anterior segment of the crural canal, or sheath of the femoral vessels. The internal abdominal ring is situated in this fascia, at about mid- way between the spine of the os pubis and the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and half an inch above Poupart’s ligament; it is bounded upon its inner side by a well-marked falciform border, but is ill-defined around its outer margin. From the circumference of this ring is given off an infundibiliform process, which surrounds the testicle and sper- matic cord, constituting the fascia propria of the latter, and forms the first investment to the sac of oblique inguinal hernia. It is the strength of this fascia, in the interval between the tendon of the rectus and the internal abdominal ring, that defends this portion of the pari- etes from the frequent occurrence of direct inguinal hernia. INGUINAL HERNIA. Inguinal hernia is of two kinds, oblique and direct. In Oblique inguinal hernia the intestine escapes from the cavity of the abdomen into the spermatic canal, through the internal abdo- minal ring, pressing before it a pouch of peritoneum which constitutes the hernial sac, and distending the infundibiliform process of the trans- versalis fascia. After emerging through the internal abdominal ring, it passesbeneath the lower and arched border of the transversalis muscle ; then beneath the lower border of the internal oblique muscle ; and finally through the external abdominal ring in the aponeurosis of the external oblique. From the transversalis muscle it receives no in- vestment ; while passing beneath the lower border of the internal oblique it obtains the cremaster muscle ; and, upon escaping at the external abdominal ring, receives the intercolumnar fascia. So that the coverings of an oblique inguinal hernia, after it has emerged through the external abdominal ring, are, from the surface to the intestine, the Integument, Superficial fascia, Intercolumnar fascia. Cremaster muscle, Transversalis, or infundibiliform fascia, Peritoneal sac. The spermatic canal, which, in the normal condition of the abdomi- nal parietes serves for the passage of the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament with its vessels in the female, is about one inch and a half in length. It is bounded in front bj^ the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle; behind b}'^ the transversalis fascia, and the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis muscle; above by the ai’ched borders of the internal oblique and transversalis ;