KNEE JOINT. 147 tilage, attached around the margin of the acetabulum, and serving to deepen that cavity and protect its edges. It is much thicker upon the upper and posterior border of the acetabulum than in front, and con- sists of fibres which arise from the whole circumference of the brim, and interlace with each other at acute angles. The transverse ligament is a strong fasciculus of ligamentous fibres, continuous with the cotyloid ligament, and extended across the notch in the acetabulum. It converts the notch into a foramen, through which the articular branches of the internal circumflex and obturator arteries enter the joint. The fossa at the bottom of the acetabulum is filled by a mass of fat, covered by synovial membrane, which serves as an elastic cushion to the head of the bone during its movements. This was considered by Havers as the sjniovial gland. The synovial membrane is extensive ; it invests the head of the femur, and is continued around the ligamentum teres into the ace- tabulum, whence it is reflected upon the inner surface of the capsular ligament back to the head of the bone. The muscles immediately surrounding and in contact with the hip- joint are, in front, the psoas and iliacus, which are separated from the capsular ligament by a large synovial bursa ; above, the short head of the rectus, and the gluteus minimus ; behind, the pyriformis, gemellus superior, obturator internus, gemellus inferior, and quadratus femoris ; and to the inner side, the obturator externus and pectineus. Actions.—The movements of the hip-joint are very extensive; they are flexion, eoctension, adduction, abduction, circumduction and rotation. 2. Knee Joint.—The knee is a ginglymoid articulation of large size, and is provided with numerous ligaments ; they are thirteen in number. Anterior or ligamentum patellae. Posterior or ligamentum posticum Winslowii, Internal lateral. Two external lateral, Anterbr or external crucial, Posterior or internal crucial. Transverse, Two coronary, Ligamentum mucosum, I ^ T• I talse liqamcnts. Two semilunar fibro-cartilages. Synovial membrane. The first five are external to the articulation; the next five are internal to the articulation ; the remaining three are mere folds of synovial membrane, and have no title to the name of ligaments. In addition to the ligaments, there are two fibro-cartilages, which are sometimes veiy erroneously considered among the ligaments; and a synovial membrane.