610 MEMBRANOUS URETHRA. as a bond of connexion between the mucous membrane and tlie corpus | spongiosum. The urethra is about nine inches in length, and is di- vided into a prostatic, membranous, and spongy portion. i The Prostatic portion^ a little more than an inch in length, is I situated in the prostate gland, about one-third nearer its upper than its lower surface, and extending from its base to its apex. Upon its lower circumference or floor is a longitudinal fold of mucous membrane, the vei'ic montanum, or caput gallinaginis, and on each side of the veru, a depressed fossa, the prostatic sinus, in which are seen the numerous openings of the prostatic ducts. At the anterior extremity of the veru montanum are the openings of the two ejaculatory ducts, and between them a third opening, which leads Fi(/. 191.* backwards into a small caecal sac, the sinus pocularis. The prostatic portion of the urethra, when dis- tended, is the most dilated part of the canal; but, excepting during the passage of urine, is completely closed by means of a ring of muscular tissue which encircles the urethra as far as the anterior extremity of the veru montanum. In the con- tracted state of the urethra, the veru montanum acts as a valve, being pressed upwards against the upper wall of the canal; but, during the action of the detrusor muscle of the bladder, the whole ring is ex- panded by the longitudinal muscular fibres which are inserted into it; and the veru is especially drarni downwards by two delicate ten- j dons, which have been traced by Mr. TjTrell from the posterior fibres of the detrusor into the tissue of this process. The Membranous portion, the narrowest part of the canal, is some- * The bulbous, membranous, and prostatic urethra, with part of the bladder. 1. Part of the urinary bladder; its internal surface. 2. The trigonum vesicse. 3. The openings of the ureters. 4. The uvula vesicae. 5. The veru montanum. 6. The opening of the sinus pocularis. 7, 7. The apertures of the ejaculatory ducts. • 8, 8. The openings of the prostatic ducts. The numbers 7, 7, and 8, 8, are placed on the cut surface of the supra^urethral portion of the prostate gland. 9, 9. The lateral lobes of the prostate gland, a. The membranous portion of the urethra, b, b. Cowper’s glands, c, c. The apertures of the excretory ducts of Cowper’s glands, d. The commencement of the bulbous portion of the ure- thra. e,e. The upper surface of the bulb of the corpus spongiosum. /,/. The II crura penis, g, g. The corpus cavemosum. h. The spongy portion of the |l urethra. H