SPLENIC ARTERY.—BRANCHES. 335 The Pyloric branch, given off from the hepatic near the pylonis, is distributed to the commencement of the duodenum and to the lesser curve of the stomach, where it inosculates with the gastric arteiy. The Gaslro-duodenalis artery is a short but large trunk, which descends behind the pylorus, and divides into two branches, the gastro-epiploica dextra, and pancreatico-duodenalis. Previously to its division, it gives off some inferior pyloric branches to the small end of the stomach. The Gastro-epiploica dextra runs along the great curve of the stomach lying between the two layers of the great omentum, and inosculates at about its middle with the gastro-epiploica sinistra, a branch of the splenic artery. It supplies the great curve of the stomach and the great omentum; hence the derivation of its name. The Pancreatico-duodenalis curves along the fixed border of the duodenum, partly concealed by the attachment of the pancreas, and is distributed to the pancreas and duodenum. It inosculates inferiorly with the first jejunal, and with the pancreatic branches of the superior mesenteric artery. The Cystic artery, generally a branch of the right hepatic, is of small size, and ramifies between the coats of the gall-bladder, pre- viously to its distribution to the mucous membrane. The Splenic artery, the largest of the three branches of the coeliac axis, passes horizontally to the left along the upper border of the pancreas, and divides into five or six large branches, which enter the hilus of the spleen, and are distributed to its structure. In its course it is tortuous and serpentine, and frequently makes a complete ■ turn upon itself. It lies in a narrow groove in the upper border of the ; pancreas, and is accompanied by the splenic vein, and by the splenic plexus of nerves. The Brandies of the splenic artery are the— Pancreaticse parvse, Pancreatica magna, Vasa brevia, Gastro-epiploica sinistra. The PancreaticcB parvae are numerous small branches distributed to t the pancreas, as the splenic artery runs along its upper border. One c jf these, larger than the rest, follows the course of the pancreatic duct, and is called pancreatica magna. The Vasa brevia are five or six branches of small size which pass rrom the extremity of the splenic artery and its terminal branches, oetween the layers of the gastro-splenic omentum, to the great end of ;he stomach, to which they are distributed, inosculating with branches if the gastric artery and gastro-epiploica sinistra. The Gastro-epiploica sinistra appears to be the continuation of the :iplenic artery ; it passes forwards from left to right, along the great