MEMBRANOUS LABYRINTH. 523 processes along the aqueducts of the vestibule and cochlea to the internal surface of the dura mater, with which they are continuous. These processes are the remains of a communication originally sub- sisting between the dura mater and the cavity of the labyrinth.* The Membranous labyrinth is smaller in size, but a perfect counterpart with respect to form, of the vestibule and semicircular canals. It consists of a small elongated sac, sacculus communis (utri- culus communis) ; of three semicircular membranous canals, which correspond with the osseous canals, and communicate with the sacculus communis '; and of a small round sac (sacculus proprius), which occupies the anterior ventricle of the vestibule, and lies in close contact with the external surface of the sacculus communis. The membranous semi- circular canals are two-thirds smaller in diameter than the osseous canals. The membranous labyrinth is retained in its position by means of the numerous nervous filaments which are distributed to it from the openings in the inner wall of the vestibule, and is separated from the lining membrane of the labyrinth by the aqua labyrinthi. In stnictiure it is composed of four layers ; an external or serous layer, derived from the lining membrane of the labyrinth ; a vascular layer, in which an abundance of minute vessels are distributed; a nervous layer, formed by the expansion of the filaments of the vestibular nerve; and an internal and serous membrane, by which the limpid fluid which fills its interior is secreted. Some patches of pigment have been ob- served by Mr. Wharton Jones in the tissue of the membranous laby- rinth of man. Among animals such spots are constant. The membranous labyrinth is filled with a limpid fluid, first well described by Scarpa, and thence named liquor Scarpm i* (endolymph, vitreous humour of the ear), and contains two small calcareous masses, called otoconites. The otoconites {ovs, ^utos, x'ovt;, the ear- dust), consist of an assemblage of minute, crystalline particles of car- bonate and phosphate of lime, held together by animal substance, and scala vestibuli into the vestibule. 17. The second turn of the cochlea; the figure is placed upon the lamina spiralis, and therefore in the scala vestibuli, the scala tympani being beneath the lamina. 18. The remaining half turn of the cochlea; the figure is placed in the scala tympani. 19. The lamina spiralis terminating in its falciform extremity. The dark space included within the falciform curve of the extremity of the lamina spiralis is the helicotrema. 20. The infundibulum. * Cotunnius regarded these processes as tubular canals, through which the anperabnndant aqua labyrinthi might be expelled into the cavity of the cra- nium. Mr. Wharton Jones, in the article “Organ of Hearing,” in the Cyclo- paedia of Anatomy and Physiology, also describes them as tubular canals which terminate beneath the dura mater of the petrous bone in a small dilated pouch. In the ear of a man, deaf and dumb from birth, he found the termination of the aqueduct of the vestibule of unusually large size in consequence of irregular development. t Antonio Scarpa is celebrated for several beautiful surgical and anatomi- cal monographs; as, for example, his work on “Aneurism,” “ De Auditu et Olfactu,” <fec. An account of the aqua labyrinthi will be found in his anato- mical observations “ De Structurd Fenestrse Rotund®, et de Tympano Secnndario.”