311 OPHTHALMIC ARTERY. Branches.—The cervical portion of the internal carotid gives off no branches : from the other portions are derived the following ;— Tympanic, Anterior meningeal, Ophthalmic, Anterior cerebral. Middle cerebral, Posterior communicating, Choroidean. The Tympanic is a small branch which enters the tympanum through a minute foramen in the carotid canal. The Anterior meningeal is distributed to the dura mater and Gasse- rian ganglion. The Ophthalmic artery arises from the cerebral portion of the inter- nal carotid, and enters the orbit through the foramen opticum, imme- diately to the outer side of the optic nerve. It then crosses the optic nerve'to the inner wall of the orbit, and runs along the lower border of the superior oblique muscle, to the inner angle of the eye, where it divides into two terminal branches, the frontal and nasal. Branches.—The branches of the ophthalmic artery may be arranged into two groups : first, those distributed to the orbit and suiTOunding parts ; and, secondly, those which supply the muscles and globe of the eye. They are— First Group. Lachrymal, Supra-orbital, Posterior ethmoidal, Anterior ethmoidal. Palpebral, Frontal, Nasal. The Lachrymal is the first branch of the ophthalmic artery, and is usually given off immediately before that artery enters the optic fora- men. It follows the course of the lachrjonal nerve, along the upper border of the external rectus muscle, and is distributed to the lachrymal gland. The small branches which escape from the gland supply the conjunctiva and upper eyelid. The lachrymal artery gives off a malar branch which passes through the malar bone into the temporal fossa and inosculates with the deep temporal arteries, while some of its branches become subcutaneous on the cheek, and anastomose with the transverse facial. The Supra-orbital artery follows the course of the frontal nerve, resting on the levator palpebrse muscle; it passes through the supra- orbital foramen, and divides into a superficial and deep branch, which are distributed to the muscles and integument of the forehead, and to Second Group. Muscular, Anterior ciliary, Ciliary short and long, Centralis retinae/