KCETAL CIRCULATION. G28 lobe. 2(113^, A single branch, which comnuinicates with the portal vein in the transverse fissure, and supplies the right lobe. 3dl}% A large branch, the ductus vcnosus, which passes directl3f backwards, and joins the inferior cava. In the inferior cava the pure blood becomes mixed Avith that which is returning from the lower extremities and abdomi- nal viscera, and is carried through the right auricle, (guided by the Eustachian valve) and through the foramen ovale, into the left auricle. From the left auricle it passes into the left ventricle, and from the left ventricle into the aorta, whence it is distributed, by means of the carotid and subclavian arteries, principally to the head and upper ex- tremities. From the head and upper extremities, the impure blood is returned b3' the superior vena cava to the right auricle ; from the right auricle, it is propelled into the right ventricle; and from the right ventricle into the pulmonary artery. In the adult, the blood would now be circulated through the lungs, and oxygenated ; but in the foetus the lungs are solid, and almost impervious. Only a small quantity of the blood passes therefore into the lungs ; the greater part rushes through the ductus arteriosus, into the commencement of the descending aorta, where it becomes mingled with that portion of the pure blood which is not sent through the carotid and subclavian arteries. Passing along the aorta, a small quantit}*^ of this mixed blood is dis- tributed by the external iliac arteries to the lower extremities; the greater portion is conve}'ed by the internal iliac, h3'pogastric, and um- bilical arteries to the placenta; the hypogastric arteries proceeding from the internal iliacs, and passing by the side of the fundus of the bladder, and upwards along the anterior Wall of the abdomen to the umbilicus, where the}-^ become the umbilical arteries. From a careful consideration of this circulation, we perceive—1st. That the piue blood from the placenta is distributed in considerable quantity to the liver, before entering the general circulation. Hence arises the abundant nutrition of that organ, and its enormous size in comparison Avith other viscera. 2ndly. That the right auricle is the scene of meeting of a double current; the one coming from the inferior cava, the other from the superior, and that they must cross each other in their respective course. How this crossing is effected the theorist Avill wonder ; not so the practical anatomist; for a cnrsory examination of the foetal heart will head and upper extremities through the jugular and subclavian veins, to the superior vena cava (14), to the right auricle (8), and in the course of the arroAV through the right ventricle (16), to the pulmonary artery (16). 17. The ductus arteriosus, Avhich appears to be a proper continuation of the pulmonary artery, the offsets at each side are the right and left pulmonary arte^cut off; these are of extremely small size as compared Avith the ductus arteriosus. The ductus arteriosus joins the descending aorta (18, 18), AA'hich diAudes into the common iliacs, and these into the Internal iliacs, Avhich become the hypogastric arteries (19), and return the blood along the umbilical cord to the placenta; Avhile the other divisions, the external iliacs (20), are continued into the loAver extremi- ties. The arroAvs at the tenninations of these vessels mark the return of the venous blood by the veins to the inferior cat'a.