MUSCLES OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. 581 Muscular Coat.—The muscular coat of the pharynx consists of five pairs of muscles, which have been already described. The mus- cular coat of the rest of the alimentary canal is composed of two planes of fibres, an external longitiulinal, and an internal circular. The (Esophagus is very muscular ; its longitudinal fibres are con- tinuous above with the pharynx, and are attached in front to the vertical ridge on the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage; the uppermost circular fibres are also attached to the cricoid cartilage. Below, both sets of fibres are continued upon the stomach. Besides the fibres possessed by the oesophagus in common with the rest of the alimentary canal, two special muscles have been described by Hyrtl under the names of Broncho-oesophageal and Pleuro-oesophageal. The Broncho-cesophageal muscle arises as a broad fasciculus from the posterior surface of the left bronchus, and is lost, after a course of two or three inches in length, among the longitudinal fibres of the left side of the oesophagus. The Pleuro-cesopJuxgeal muscle arises from the left wall of the posterior mediastinum behind the commencement of the descending aorta, and curves around that vessel to mingle its fibres with the longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus. On the Stomach the longitudinal fibres are most apparent along the lesser curve, and the circular at the smaller end. At the pylorus the latter are aggregated into a thick circular ring, which, with the spiral fold of mucous membrane found in this situation, constitutes the pyloric valve. At the great end of the stomach a new order of fibres is intro- duced, having for their object to strengthen and compress that ex- tremity of the organ. They are directed more or less horizontally from the great end towards the lesser end, and are generally lost upon the sides of the stomach at about its middle; these are the oblique fibres. The Small intestine is provided with both layers of fibres, equally distributed over the entire surface. At the termination of the ileum the circular fibres are continued into the two folds of the ileo-caecal valve, while the longitudinal fibres pass onwards to the large intestine. In the large intestine the longitudinal fibres commence at the appendix vermiformis and are collected into three bands, an anterior, broad, and two posterior and narrower bands. These bands are nearly one-half ■ shorter than the intestine, and serve to maintain the sacculated struc- ; ture which is characteristic of the caecum and colon. In the descending colon the posterior bands usually unite and form a single band. From ■ this point the bands are continued downwards upon the sigmoid : flexure to the rectum, around which they spread out and form a thick . and very muscular longitudinal layer. The circular fibres in the ^ caecum and colon are exceedingly thin; in the rectum they are thicker, . and at its lower extremity they are aggregated into the thick muscular ring which is known as the internal sphincter ani. Between the lat- ter and the mucous membrane are several narrow fasciculi of longitu- dinal muscular fibres, somewhat more than an inch in length, which have been described by Plorner of Philadelphia.