550 LIGAMENTS OK THE LARVNX. Two Capsular lipamcnts, with their synovial membranes, which form the articulation between the inferior cornua of the thyroid and the sides of the cricoid; and the crico-thyroidean membrane. The erico- thyroidean nuimbra7ie is a fan-shaped layer of elastic tissue, thick in front (middle crico-thyroidean ligament) and thinner at each side (lateral crico-thyroidean ligament). It is attached by its apex to the lower border and receding angle of the thyroid cartilage, and by its ex- panded margin to the upper border of the cricoid and base of the ary- tenoid cartilage. Superiorly it is continuous with the inferior margin of the chorda vocalis. The front of the crico-thyroidean membrane is crossed by a small artery, the infe- rior larynj ed for the Laterally crico-thyroidei and crico-arytenoidei laterales muscles. 3. The ligaments of the arj’te- noid cartilages are six in number;— Two Capsular ligaments, with sy- novial membranes, which articulate the arytenoid cartilages -with the cricoid; and the superior and in- ferior thyro-arytenoid ligaments. ; The superior thyro-arytenoid liga- ments are two thin bands of elastic tissue which are attached in front to the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage, and behind to the anterior ", and inner border of each arytenoid cartilage. The lower border of * A vertical section of the larynx, showing its ligaments. 1. The body of the os hyoides. 2. Its great cornu. 3. Its lesser cornu. 4. The ala of the thjroid ' cartilage. 5. The superior cornu. 6. Its inferior cornu. 7. The pomum Adami. 8, 8. The thyro-hyoidean membrane; the opening in the membrane immediately above the most posterior of the numerals is for the passage of the superior laryngeal nerve and artery. 9. The thyro-hyoidean ligament; the nu- meral is placed immediately above the sesamoid bone or cartilage which exists in this ligament, a. The epiglottis, b. The hyo-epiglottic ligament, c. The thyro-epiglottic ligament, d. The arytenoid cartilage; its inner surface, e. The outer angle of the base of the arytenoid cartilage. /. The comiculum laryngis. g. The cuneiform cartilage, h. The superior thyro-arytenoid liga- ment. i. The inferior thyro-arytenoid ligament, or chorda vocalis; the ellip- tical space between the two thyro-aiTtenoid ligaments is that of the ventricle of the larynx, k. The cricoid cartilage. 1. The lateral portion of the crico-thy- roidean membrane, ni. The central portion of the same membrane, n. The upper ring of the trachea, which is received within the ring of the cricoid carti- lage. 0. Section of the isthmus of the thyroid gland, p, p. The levator glan- . dulse thyroideae. jeal, and is the spot select- operation of larj'ngotomy. it is covered in bv the