BONES OF THE TYMPANUM, 515 into a groove situated around the circumference of the meatus, near its termination, and is placed obliquely across the area of that tube, the direction of the obliquity being downwards and inwards. It is concave towards the meatus, and convex towards the tympanum, and is composed of three layers, an eoiemal, epidermal; middle, fibrous and muscular; and, internal, mucous, derived from the mucous lining of the tympanum. The tjunpanum contains three small bones, ossicula a%iditus, viz., the malleus, incus, and stapes. The Malleus (hammer) consists of a head, neck, handle {manvr brium), and two processes, long (processus gracilis), and short (proeessus brevis). The manubrimn is connected with the membrana tympani by its whole length, extending below the central point of that membrane. It lies beneath the mucous layer of the membrane, and serves as a point of attachment to which the radiating fibres of the fibrous layer converge. The long process descends to a groove near the fissrira Glaseri, and gives attachment to the laxator tympani muscle. Into the short process is inserted the tendon of the tensor tympani, and the head of the bone articulates with the incus. The Incus (anvil) is named from an imagined resemblance to an anvil. It has also been likened to a bicuspid tooth, having one root longer than, and widely separated from, the other. It consists of two processes, which unite nearly at right angles, and at their junction form a flattened body, which articulates with the head of the malleus. The short process is attached to the margin of the opening of the mas- toid cells by means of a ligament; the long process descends nearly parallel with the handle of the malleus, and curves inwards, near its termination. At its extremity is a small globiilar projection, the os orbiculare, which in the foetus is a distinct bone, but becomes anchj’^- losed to the long process of the incus in the adult; this process articu- lates with the head of the stapes. The Stapes is shaped like a stirrup, to which it bears a close resem- blance. Its head articulates with the os orbiciilare, and the two branches are connected by their extremities with a flat, oval-shaped plate, representing the foot of the stirrup. The foot of the stirrup is received into the fenestra ovalis, to the margin of which it is con- nected by means of a circular ligament; it is in contact, by its sur- face, with the membrana vestibuli, and is covered in by the mucous linmg of the tympanum. The neck of the stapes gives attachment to the stapedius muscle. The ossicula auditus are retained in their position and moved upon themselves by means of ligaments and muscles. The Ligaments are three in number ; the ligament of the head of the malleus, which is attached to the upper wall of the tympa- num ; the ligament of the incus, a short and thick band, which serves to attach the extremity of the short process of that bone to the mar- gin of the opening of the mastoid cells; and the circular ligament