5G2 ABDOMINAL VISCERA. cthove by the diaphragm ; and, hclow, liy the pelvis ; and contains, the alimentary canal, the organs subservient to digestion, viz. the liver, pancreas, and spleen ; and the organs of excretion, the kidneys, with the supra-renal capsules. Regions.—For convenience of description of the viscera, and of re- ference to the morbid affections of this cavity, the abdomen is divided into certain districts or regions. Thus, if two transverse lines be carried around the body, the one parallel with the inferior convexities of the ribs, tlie other with the highest points of the crests of the ilia, the abdomen will be divided into three zones. Again, if a perpendi- cular line be drawn, at each side, from the cartilage of the eighth rib to the middle of Poupart’s ligament, the three primary zones will each be subdivided into three compartments or regions, a middle and two lateral. The middle region of the upper zone being immediately over the small end of the stomach, is called epigastric (etr/ yaffrri^, over the stomach). The two lateral regions, being under the cartilages of the ribs, are called hypochondriac (u-ra ^'ovh^oi., under the cartilages). The middle region of the middle zone is the umbilical; the two lateral, the lumbar. The middle region of the inferior zone is the hypogastric (bvo yaffTTi^, below the stomach); and the two lateral, the iliac. In addition to these divisions, we employ the term inguinal region, in reference to the vicinity of Poupart’s ligament. Position of the Viscera.—In the upper zone will be seen the liver, extending across from the right to the left side ; the stomach and spleen on the left, and the pancreas and duodenum behind. In the middle zone is the transverse portion of the colon, with the upper part of the ascending and descending colon, omentum, small intestines, mesentery, and, behind, the kidneys and supra-renal capsules. In- the inferior zone is the lower part of the omentum and small intes- tines, the caecum, ascending and descending colon with the sigmoid flexure, and ureters. The smooth and polished surface, which the viscera and parietesJ of the abdomen present, is due to the peritoneum, which should in the I next place be studied. PERITONEUM. ! The Peritoneum to extend around) is a serous membrane, , i: and therefore a shut sac : a single exception exists in the human ' [ subject to this character, viz. in the female, where the peritoneum is perforated by the open extremities of the Fallopian tubes, and is con- tinuous with their mucous lining. The simplest idea that can be given of a serous membrane, which j may apply equally to all, is, that it invests the viscus or viscera, and is then reflected upon the parietes of the containing cavity. If the cavity contain only a single viscus, the consideration of the serous