382 AZYGOS VEINS Tlie Lumbar veins, three or four in number on each side, collect the venous blood from the muscles and integument of the loins, and from the spinal veins : the left are longer than the right on account of the position of the vena cava. The Right spermatic vein is formed by the two veins which return the blood from the venous plexus situated in the spermatic cord. These veins follow the course of the spermatic artery, and unite to form the single trunk which opens' into the inferior vena cava. The left spermatic vein terminates in the left renal vein. The Ovarian veins represent the spermatic veins of the male, and collect the venous blood from the ovaries, round ligaments, and Fallo- pian tubes, and communicate with the uterine sinuses. They termi- nate as in the male. The Renal or emulgent vems return the blood from the kidneys ; their branches are situated in front of the divisions of the renal arte- ries, and the left opens into the vena cava somewhat higher than the right. The left is longer than the right in consequence of the position of the vena cava, and crosses the aorta immediately below the origin of the superior mesenteric artery. It receives the left spermatic vein, Avhich terminates in it at right angles ; hence the more frequent occur- rence of varicocele on the left than on the right side. The Supra-renal veins terminate partly in the renal veins, and parti}* in the inferior vena cava. The Phrenic veins return the blood from the ramifications of the phrenic arteries ; they open into the inferior cava. The Hepatic veins form two principal trunks and numerous smaller veins which open into the inferior cava, while that vessel is situated in the posterior border of the liver. The hepatic veins commence in the liver by minute venules, the intralobular veins, in the centre of each lobule ; these pour their blood into larger vessels, the sublobular veins; and the sublobular veins constitute, by their convergence and union, the hepatic trunks, which terminate in the inferior vena cava. AZYGOS VEINS. The azygos veins (fig. 137) form a system of communication be- tween the superior and inferior vena cava, and serve to return the blood from that part of the trunk of the body in which those vessels are deficient, on account of their connection with the heart. This system consists of three vessels, the Vena azygos major, Vena azygos minor, Superior intercostal vein. The Vena azygos major commences in the lumbar region by a com- munication with the lumbar veins ; sometimes it is joined by a branch directly from the inferior vena cava, or by one from the renal vein.