COCHLEA.—MODIOLUS. 521 The interior of the canal of the cochlea is pai-tially divided into two passages (scalae) by means of a thin and porous lamina of bone (zonula ossea lamina; spiralis), which is wound spirally around the modiolus in the direction of the canal. This bony septum extends for about two-thirds across the diameter of the canal, and in the fresh subject, is prolonged to the opposite wall by means of a membranous layer, so as to constitute a complete partition, the lamina spiralis. The osseous lamina spiralis consists of two thin lamellie of bone, between which, and through the perforations on their surfaces, the filaments of the cochlear nerve reach the membrane of the cochlea. At the apex of the cochlea the lamina spiralis terminates by a pointed, hook - shaped process, the hamulus laminae spiralis. The two scalae of the coch- lea, which are complete- ly separated throughout their length in the living ear, communicate supe- riorly, over the hamu- lus laminae spiralis, by means of an opening common to both, which has been termed by Breschet lielico-trema (sX<|, iXiaffca volvere—Inferiorly, one of the two scalae, the scala vestibuli, terminates by means of an oval aperture in the anterior ventricle of the vestibule ; while the other, the scala tympani, becomes somewhat expanded, and opens into the tympanum through the fenestra rotunda (fenestra cochleae). Near the termination of the scala tympani is the small opening of the aquae- ductus cochleae. The internal surface of the osseous labyrinth is lined by a fibro- serous membrane, which is analogous to the dura mater in performing * The cochlea divided parallel with its axis, through the centre of the modi- olus. After Breschet. 1. The modiolus. 2. The infundibulum in which the modiolus terminates. 3, 3. The cochlear nerve, sending its filaments through the centre of the modiolus. 4, 4. The scala tympani of the first turn of the cochlea. 5, 5. The scala vestibuli of the first turn ; the septum between 4 and 5 is the lamina spiralis ; a filament of the cochlear nerve is seen .passing be- tween the layers of the lamina to be distributed upon the membrane which in- vests the lamina. 8. Loops formed by the filaments of the cochlear nerve on the lamina spiralis. 9, 9. Scala tympani of the second turn of the cochlea. 10, 10. Scala vestibuli of the second turn ; the septum between the two is the lamina spiraiis. 11. The remaining half turn of the scala vestibuli; the dome placed over this half turn is the cupola ; a line leads from the numeral to the remaining half turn of the scala tympani. The lamina of bone which forms the floor of the scala vestibuli curves spirally round to constitute the infundibulum (2). 14. The helicotrema through which a bristle is passed; its lower extre- mity issues from the scala tympani of the middle turn of the cochlea. The hamulus laminse spiralis is seen in front of the bristle. Fig. 164.*