MUSCLES OF THE PERINEUM. 221 expulsion ; by their action the foetus is expelled from the uterus, the urine from the bladder, the faeces from the rectum, the bile from the gall-bladder, the ingesta from the stomach and bowels in vomiting, and the mucous and irritating substances from the bronchial tubes, trachea, and nasal passages, during coughing and sneezing. To produce these efforts they all act together. Their violent and continued action pro- duces hernia ; and, acting spasmodically, they may occasion rupture of the viscera. The quadratus lumborum draws the last rib down- wards, and is an expiratory muscle ; it also serves to bend the verte- bral column to one or the other side. The psoas parvus is a tensor of the iliac fascia, and, taking its fixed origin from below, it may as- sist in flexing the vertebral column forwards. The diaphragm is an inspiratory muscle, and the sole agent in tranquil inspiration. When in action, the muscle is drawn downwards, its plane being rendered ob- lique from the level of the ensiform cartilage, to that of the upper lumbar vertebra. During relaxation it is convex, and encroaches consider- ably on the cavity of the chest, particularly at the sides, where it corresponds with the lungs. It assists the abdominal muscles power- fully in expulsion, every act of that kind being preceded or accom- panied by a deep inspiration. Spasmodic action of the diaphragm produces hiccough and sobbing, and its rapid alternation of contraction and relaxation, combined with larjmgeal and facial movements, laugh- ing and crj'ing. MUSCLES OF THE PEEINEUM. The muscles of the perineum are situated in the outlet of the pelvis, and consist of two groups, one of which belongs especially to the organs of generation and urethra, the other to the termination of the alimentary' canal. To these may be added the only pair of muscles which is proper to the pelvis, the coccygei. The muscles of the peri- neal region in the male, are the Accelerator urinm. Erector penis. Compressor urethrae, Transversus perinei, Sphincter ani. Levator ani, Coccygeus. Dissection.—To dissect the perineum, the subject should be fixed : in the position for lithotomy, that is, the hands should be bound to t the soles of the feet, and the knees kept apart. An easier plan is the ' drawing of the feet upwards by means of a cord passed through a hook in the ceiling. Both of these plans of preparation have for their object the full exposure of the perineum. And as this is a dissection