FOURTH LAYER. 203 versalis abdominis, which separates it from the quadratus lumborum ; (ill the dorsal region) with the multifidus spinas, semi-spinalis dorsi, levatores costarmn, intercostal muscles, and ribs as far as their angles. IntermiUy or mesially with the multifidus spinm, and semi-spinalis dorsi, which separate it from the spinous processes and arches of the vertebras. The two layers of aponeurosis of the transversalis abdominis, toge- ther with the spinal column in the lumbar region, and the vertebral aponeurosis with the ribs and spinal column in the dorsal region, form a complete osseo-aponeurotic sheath for the erector spirim. The Cervicalis ascendens is the continuation of the sacro-lumbalis upwards into the neck. It arises from the angles of the four upper ribs, and is inserted by slender tendons into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the four lower cervical vertebrae. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the levator anguli sca- pulrn ; by its deep surface with the upper intercostal muscles and ribs, and with the intertransverse muscles ; externally with the scalenus posticus ; and internally with the transversalis colli. The tendons of insertion are interposed between the attachments of the scalenus pos- ticus and transversalis colli. The Transversalis colli would appear to be the continuation upwards into the neck of the longissimus dorsi; it arises from the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth dorsal verte- brae, and is inserted into the posterior tubercles of the transverse pro- cesses of the four or five inferior cervical vertebrae. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the levator anguli sca- pulae, splenius and longissimus dorsi. By its deep surface with the complexus, trachelo-mastoideus and vertebrae ; externally with the musculus accessorius ad sacro-lumbalem, and cervicalis ascendens; in- ternally with the trachelo-mastoideus and complexus. The tendons of insertion of this muscle are interposed between the tendons of inser- tion of the cervicalis ascendens on the outer side, and those of origin of the trachelo-mastoid on the inner side. The Trachelo-mastoid is likewise a continuation upwards from the longissimus dorsi. It is a verj' slender and delicate muscle, arising from the transverse processes of the four upper dorsal and four lower cervical vertebrie, and inserted into the mastoid process to the inner side of the digastric fossa. Relations.—The same as those of the preceding muscle, excepting that it is interposed between the transversalis colli and the complexus. Its tendons of attachment are the most posterior of those which are connected with the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebra;. The Complexes is a large muscle, and with the splenius forms the great bulk of the back of the neck. It crosses the direction of the splenius, arising from the transverse processes of the four upper dor- sal, and from the transverse and articular processes of the four lower cervical vertebra;, and is inserted into the rough surface on the occipital