POPLITEAL ARTERY. :i54 iibove, and with the articular branches of the popliteal below. It is through the medium of these branches that the collateral circulation is maintained in the limb after ligature of the femoral artery. The Muscular hranclws are given off by the femoral arterj' through- out the whole of its course. They supply the muscles in immediate proximity with the artery, particularly those of the anterior aspect of the thigh. One of these branches, larger than the rest, arises from the femoral immediately below the origin of the profunda, and passing outwards between the rectus and sartorius divides into branches which are distributed to all the muscles of the anterior aspect of the thigh. This may be named the superior muscular artery. The Anastomotica magna arises from the femoral while in the ten- dinous canal formed by the adductors and vastus intemus. It runs along the tendon of the adductor magnus to the inner condyle, and inosculates with the superior internal articular arterj’; some of its branches are distributed to the vastus intemus muscle and to the crureus, and terminate by anastomosing with the branches of the ex- ternal circumflex and superior external articular artery. POPLITEAL ARTERY. The popliteal artery (Fig. 132) commences from the termination of the femoral at the opening in the adductor magnus muscle, and passes obliquely outwards through the middle of the popliteal space to the lower border of the popliteus muscle, where it divides into the anterior and posterior tibial artery. Jtelations.— In its course downwards it rests first on the femur, then on the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, then on the fascia, cover- ing the popliteus muscle. Superficially it is in relation with the semi- membranosus muscle, next with a quantity of fat which separates it from the deep fascia, and iffiar its termination with the gastrocnemius, plaiitaris, and soleus; superficial and external to it is the popliteal vein, and still more superficial and external, the popliteal nerve. By its inner side it is in relation with the semi-membranosus, internal condyle of the femur, and inner head of the gastrocnemius; and b)' its outer side with the biceps, external condyle of the femur, the outer head of the gastrocnemius, the plantaris and the soleus.