2] 2 MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. line, from over the lower part of the sternum, to the pubes; the second, ohlique, from the umbilicus, upwards and outwards, to the outer side of the chest, as high as the fifth or sixth rib; and the third, oblique, from the umbilicus, downwards and outwards, to the middle of the crest of the ilium. The three flaps included by these incisions should then be dissected back in the direction of the fibres of the ex- ternal oblique muscle, beginning at the angle of each. The integu- ment and superficial fascia should be dissected off together so as to ex- pose the fibres of the muscle at once. If the external oblique muscle be dissected on both sides, a white tendinous line will be seen along the middle of the abdomen, extend- ing from the ensiform cartilage to the os pubis; this is the lima alba. A little external to it, on each side, two curved lines will be observed extending from the sides of the chest to the os pubis, and bounding the recti muscles: these are the linem semilunares. Some transverse lines, limee transverscB, three or four in number, connect the lineae semilunares with the linea alba. The External oblique muscle (obliquus externus abdominis, descendens) is the external flat muscle of the abdomen. Its name is derived from the obliquity of its direction, and the descending course of its fibres. It arises by fleshy digitations from the external surface of the eight inferior ribs; the five upper digitations being received be- tween corresponding processes of the serratus magnus, and the three lower of the latissimus dorsi. Soon after its origin it spreads out into a broad aponeurosis, which is inserted into the outer lip of the crest of the ilium for one half its length, the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, spine of the os pubis, pectineal line, front of the os pubis, and linea alba. The lower border of the aponeurosis, which is stretched between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the spine ot the os pubis, is round from being folded inwards, and forms Fowpart's ligament; the insertion into the pectineal line is Gimbernai's ligament. Just above the crest of the os pubis is the external abdominal ring, a triangular opening formed by the separation of the fibres of the apo- neurosis of the external oblique. It is oblique in its direction, and corresponds with the course of the fibres of the aponeurosis. It is bounded below by the crest of the os pubis; on either side, by the borders of the aponeurosis, which are called pillars; and above by some curved fibres {inter-columnar') which originate from Ponpart’s ligament, and cross the upper angle of the ring, so as to give it strength. The external pillar, which is at the same time inferior from the obliquity of the opening, is inserted into the spine of the os pubis; the internal or supe- rior pillar forms an interlacement with its fellow of the opposite side over the front of the symphysis pubis. The external abdominal ring gives passage to the spermatic cord in the male, and round ligament in the female: they are both invested in their passage through it by a thin fascia derived from the edges of the ring, and called inter-columnar fascia, or fascia spermatica.