PORTAL CIRCULATION OF THE KIDNEYS. GO I form a capillary venous plexus, which surrounds the tortuous tubuli uriniferi, and from this venous plexus the blood is conveyed, by con- verging branches, into the renal vein. “ Thus,” remarks Mr. Bowman, “ there are in the kidney two •perfectly distinct systems of capillary vessels, through both of which the blood passes in its course from the arteries into the veins; the first, that” which forms the vascular tuft in the Malpighian bodies, and is “ in immediate connection with the arteries ; the second, that enveloping the convolutions of the tubes and communicating directly with the veins. The efferent vessels of the Malpighian bodies, that carry the blood between these two systems, may collectively be termed the portal system of the kidney.” The inferences drawn by Mr. Bow- man from his investigtitions are interesting; they are, that the capil- lary tufts of the Malpighian bodies are the part of the kidney specially acted on by diuretics; that they are the medium by which water, cer- tain salts, and other substances, pass out of the system ; that they are, moreover, the means of escape of certain morbid products, such as sugar, albumen, and the red particles of the blood. Respecting the capillary venous plexus, we have proof that the principal proximate constituents of urine, such as urea, lithic acid, &c., are, like the bile, derived from venous (portal) blood. The Veins of the kidney commence at the surface by minute con- verging venules, the stellated vessels, and proceed inwards, receiving in their course the veins of the cortical and tubular portions of the organ. On arriving at the pelvis, they unite to form the branches of the renal vein, which terminates in the vena cava by a single large trunk on each side; the left renal vein receiving the left spermatic vein. Injec- tions thrown into the renal artery, and returning by the tubuli muni- feri, make their way into those tubes by rupture. The lymphatic ves- sels terminate in the lumbar glands. The Nerves are derived from the renal plexus, which is formed partly by the solar plexus, and partly by the lesser splanchnic nerve. The renal plexus gives branches to the spermatic plexus, and branches which accompany the ureters: hence the morbid sympathies which exist between the kidney, the ureter, and the testicle: and by the communications with the solar plexus, with the stomach and dia- phragm, and indeed with the whole system. In the intimate structure of the kidney, the nerve-fibres are, according to Mr. Toynbee, conti- nuous with the nucleated cells of the parenchyma of the organ.