226 MUSCLES OF THE PERINEUM. The Tnmsversus perinei is inserted into the side of the constrictor vaginiE, and the levator ani into the side of the vagina. The other muscles are precisely similar in their attachments to those in the male. Actions.—The acceleratores urinm being continuous at the middle line, and attached on each side to the hone, by means of their posterior fibres will support the bulbous portion of the urethra, and acting sud- denly, will propel the semen, or the last drops of urine from the canal. The posterior and middle fibres, according to Krause,* contribute to- wards the erection of the corpus spongiosum, by producing compres- sion upon the venous structure of the bulb ; and the anterior fibres, according to Tyrrell,t assist in the erection of the entire organ by com- pressing the vena dorsalis, by means of their insertion into the fascia penis. The erector penis becomes entitled to its name from spreading out upon the dorsum of the organ into a membranous expansion (fascia penis), which, according to Krause, compresses the dorsal vein during the action of the muscle, and especially after the erection of the organ has commenced. The transverse muscles serve to steady the tendinous centre, that the muscles attached to it may obtain a firm point of support. According to Cruveilhier, they draw the anus backwards during the expulsion of the faeces, and antagonise the levatores ani which carry the anus forwards. The compressor urethrae, taking its fixed point from the ramus of the ischium at each side, can, says Mr. Guthrie, “ compress the urethra so as to close it ; I conceive completely, after the manner of a sphincter.” The transverse portion will also have a tendency to draw the urethra downwards, whilst the perpendicular portion will draw it upwards towards the os pubis. The inferior fasciculus of the transverse muscle, enclosing Cowper's glands, will assist those bodies in evacuating their secretion. The external sphincter, being a cutaneous muscle, contracts the integument around the anus, and by its attachment to the tendinous centre and to the point of the coccyx, assists the levator ani in giving support to the opening during expulsive efforts. The internal sphincter contracts the extremity of the cylinder of the intestine. The use of the levator ani is expressed in its name. It is the antagonist of the diaphragm and the rest of the expulsory muscles, and serves to support the rectum and vagina during their expulsive efforts. The levator ani acts in unison with the diaphragm, and rises and falls like that muscle in forcible respiration. Yielding to the propulsive action of the abdo- minal muscles, it enables the outlet of the pelvis to bear a greater force than a resisting structure, and on the lemission of such action it restores the perineum to its original form. The coccygei muscles restore the coccyx to its natural position, after it has been pressed backwards during defsecation or during parturition. * Muller, Archiv fiir Anatoinie, Physiologie, ifec. 1837. t Lectures in the College of Surgeons. 1839.