FIBRES OF THE BRAIN. 432 For a like reason the bodies in which this grey substance occurs, are called by the same physiologists ’‘'‘ganglia of increasef and by other authors simply ganglia. Thus the thalami optici and corpora striata are the ganglia of the cerebrum; or, in other words, tlie fornudirie ganglia of the hemispheres. The fibres of the corpora pyramidalia are not all of them destined to the course above described; several fasciculi curve outwards to reach the corpora restiformia, some passing in front and some behind the corpus olivare on each side. These are the arcifarm fibres, and they are distinguished by Mr. Solly'into the superjkial and deep cere- bellar fibres. In the pons Varolii the continued or cerebral fibres (Solly) of the corpus pyramidale are placed between the superficial and deep layers of transverse fibres, and escaping from the pons, con- stitute the inferior and inner segment of the crus cerebri. From the crus cerebri they pass for the most part beneath the thalami optici into the corpora striata. The fibres which enclose the corpus olivare, under the name of fasciculi siliquse, are separated by that body into two bands ; the innermost of the two bands, funiculus siliqucB internus, accompanies the fibres of the corpus pyramidale into the crus cerebri. The funicrdus siliquce externus unites with a fasciculus proceeding from the nucleus olivse, and the combined column ascending behind the crus cerebelli divides into a superior and an inferior band. The inferior band proceeds with a fasciculus presently to be described, the fasciculus innominatus, into the upper segment of the crus cerebri. The supe- rior band (laqueus) ascends by the side of the processus e cerebello ad testes, and, crossing the latter obliquely, enters the corpora quadrige- mina, in which many of its fibres are distributed, while the rest are continued onwards into the thalamus opticus. The corpora restiformia derive their fibres from the anterior as weU as from the posterior columns of the medulla oblongata ; they diverge as they approach the cerebellum, and leaving behind them the cavity of the fourth ventricle, enter the substance of the cerebellum, under the form of two rounded cords. These cords envelope the corpora rhomboidea, or ganglia of increase, and then expand on all sides so as to constitute the cerebellum. Besides the fibres here described, there are, in the interior of the medulla oblongata, behind the corpora olivaria and more or less appa- rent between these bodies and the corpora restiformia, two large bun- dles of fibres, ihe fasciculi innominati. These fascicub ascend behind the deep transverse fibres of the pons Varobi, and become apparent in the floor of the fourth ventricle, under the name of fascicub teretes, or posterior pyramids. From this point they are prolonged upwards beneath the corpora quadrigemina into the crura cerebri, of which they form the upper and outer segment, and are thence continued through the thalami optici and corpora striata into the hemispheres. The locus niger of the crus cerebri is a septum of grey matter interposed between these fasciculi and those of the corpora pyramidalia. ,