MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF THE LARYNX. 553 forwards, and a little upwards, expands over the upper half, or two- thirds of the sacculus laryngis, and is inserted by a broad attachment into the side of the epiglottis. Actions.—From a careful examination of the muscles of the larynx, Mr. Bishop* concludes, that the crico-arytenoidei postici open the glottis, while all the rest close it. The arytenoideus approximates the aryte- noid cartilages posteriorly, and the crico-arytenoidei laterales and thyro- arytenoidei anteriorly; the latter, moreover, close the glottis mesially. The crico-thyroidei are tensors of the chordae vocales, and these muscles, together with the thyro-arytenoidei, regulate the tension, position, and vibrating length of the vocal cords. The crico-thyroid muscles effect the tension of the chordae vocales by rotating the cricoid on the inferior cornua of the thyroid; by this action the anterior portion is drawn upwards and made to approximate the in- ferior border of the thyroid, while the posterior and superior border of the cricoid, together with the arytenoid cartilages, is carried backwards. The crico-arytenoidei postici separate the chordae vocales by drawing the arj-tenoid cartilages outwards and downwards. The crico-aryte- noidei laterales, by drawing the outer angles of the arytenoid cartilages forwards, approximate the anterior angles to which the chordae vocales are attached. The thyro-arytenoidei draw the arytenoid cartilages forwards, and, by their connection with the chordae vocales, act upon the whole length of those cords. The thyro-epiglottideus acts principally by compressing the glands of the sacculus laryngis and the sac itself: by its attachment to the epi- glottis it would act feebly upon that valve. The aryteno-epiglottideus superior serves to keep the mucous membrane of the sides of the open- ing of the glottis tense, when the larynx is drawn upwards and the opening closed by the epiglottis. Of the aryteno-epiglottideus, the “ functions appear to be,” writes Mr. Hilton, “ to compress the sub- jacent glands which open into the pouch ; to diminish the capacity of that cavity, and change its form ; and to approximate the epiglottis and the arytenoid cartilage.” Mucous Membrane.—The aperture of the larynx is a triangular or cordiform opening, broad in front and narrow behind; bounded ante- riorly by the epiglottis, posteriorly by the arytenoideus muscle, and on either side by a fold of mucous membrane stretched between the side of the epiglottis and the apex of the arytenoid cartilage. On the mar- gin of this aryteno-epiglottidean fold the cuneiform cartilage forms a prominence more or less distinct. The cavity of the larynx is divided into two parts by an oblong constriction produced by the prominence of the chordae vocales. That portion of the cavity which lies above the constriction is broad and triangular above, and narrow below; that which is below it, is narrow above and broad and cylindrical below, the circumference of the cylinder corresponding with the ring of the cricoid; * Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology, art. Larynx.