30 TEMPORAL BONE. nence, the eminentia articularis. The process of bone which is continued from the tubercle of the zygoma into the eminentia articu- laris is the inferior root of the zygoma. The superior root is con- tinued upwards from the upper border of the zygoma, and forms the posterior part of the temporal ridge, serving by its projection to mark the division of the squamous from the mastoid portion of the bone; and the middle root is continued directly backwards, and terminates abruptly at a narrow fissure, the fissura Glaseri. The irderriol sur- faee of the squamous portion is marked by several shallow fossm, which con’espond with the convolutions of the cerebrum, and by a furrow for the posterior branch of the arteria meningea media. The superior, or squamous border, is very thin, and bevelled at the expense of the inner surface, so as to overlap the lower and arched border of the parietal bone. The inferior border is thick, and dentated to arti- culate with the spinous process of the sphenoid bone. The Mastoid portion iovms the posterior part of the bone; it is thick, and hollowed between its tables into a loose and cellular diploe. Upon its external surface it is rough for the attachment of muscles, and contrasts strongly with the smooth and polished-like surface of the squamous portion: every part of this surface is pierced by small fora- mina, which give passage to minute arteries and veins; one of these openings, oblique in its direction, of large size, and situated near the posterior border of the bone, the inastoid foramen, transmits a vein to the lateral sinus. This foramen is not unfrequently situated in the occipital bone. The inferior part of this portion is round and ex- panded, the mastoid process, and excavated in its interior into numerous cells, which form a part of the organ of hearing. In front of the mastoid process, and between the superior and middle roots of the z3'goma, is the large oval opening of the meatus auditorius eaternus, surrounded by a rough lip, the processus auditorius. Directh^ to the inner side of, and partly concealed by the mastoid process, is a deep groove, the digastric fossa; and a little more intemallj' the occipital groove, which lodges the occipital arterJ^ Upon its internal surface the mastoid portion presents a broad and shallow groove {J'ossa sigmoidea) for the lateral sinus, and terminating in this groove the internal opening of the mastoid foramen. The supei-ior border of the mastoid portion is dentated; and its posterior border, thick and less serrated, articulates with the inferior border of the occipital bone. The meatus auditorius extermis is a slightly''cimved canal, somewhat more than half an inch in length, longer along its lower than its upper wall, and directed obliquely inwards and forwards. The canal is nan-ower at the middle than at each extremity, is broadest in its horizontal diameter, and terminates upon the outer wall of the t3'mp.a- num by an abrupt oval border. Within the margin of this border is a groove for the insertion of the membrana tj-mpani. The Petrous portion of the temporal bone is named from its extreme hardness and density. It is a three-sided pyramid, projecting hori-