480 GREAT ISCHIATIC NERVE. distributed. At the root of the penis this nerve gives off a cutaneous branch which runs along the side of the organ, gives filaments to the corpus cavernosuni, and with its fellow of the opposite side supplies the integument of the upper two-thirds of the penis and prepuce. The Inferior or perineal rwrve pursues the course of the internal pudic artery in the perineum and sends off three principal branches, an external perineal branchy which ascends upon the outer side of the crus penis, and supplies the scrotum; a superjvrial perineal branch, which accompanies the artery of that name and distributes filaments to the scrotum, to the integument of the under part of the penis and to the prepuce; and, thirdly, the bulbo-urethral branch, which sends twigs to the sphincter ani, transversus perinei, and accelerator urinrn, and terminates by ramifying in the corpus spongiosum. In the female the internal pudic nen-e is distributed to the parts analogous to those of the male. The superior branch supplies the clitoris; and the inferior the vulva and parts in the perineum. The Lesser ischiatic nerve passps out of the pelvis through the great sacro-ischiatic foramen below the pyriformis muscle, and divides into muscular and cutaneous branches. The muscular branches, infe- rior gluteal, are distributed to the gluteus maximus; some ascending in the substance of that muscle to its upper border, and others de- scending. The cutaneous branches are, several ascending filaments to the integument over the gluteus maximus (n. cutanei clunium inferio- res), perineal cutaneous, and middle posterior cutaneous. The Perineal cutaneous nerve (pudendalis longus inferior), curves around the tuberosity of the ischium and ascends in a direction paral- lel with the ramus of the ischium and os pubis to the scrotum, where it communicates with the superficial perineal nerve, and divides into an internal and an external branch. The internal branch passes downwards on the inner side of the testis to the scrotum ; the external branch on its outer side, and both terminate in the integument of the under bor- der of the penis. The Middle posterior cutaneous nerve crosses the tuberosity of the ischium and pierces the deep fascia at the lower border of the gluteus maximus. It then passes downwards along the middle of the poste- rior aspect of the thigh and of the popliteal region, and is distributed to the integument as far as the middle of the calf of the leg. In its coimse the nerve gives off several cutaneous branches to the integument of the inner and outer side of the thigh, and in the popliteal region a communicating branch which pierces the fascia of the leg and unites with the external saphenous nerve. The Great ischiatic nerve is the largest nervous cord in the body; it is formed by the sacral plexus, or rather is a prolongation of the plexus, and at its exit from the great sacro-ischiatic foramen beneath the pyriformis muscle measures three quarters of an inch in breadth. It descends through the middle of the space between the