SUUAIAXILLAIIY GANGLION, 4«a cartilage of the Eustachian tube and tensor palati muscle; and poste- riorly it is in contact with the arteria meningea media. It is closelj' adlierent to tlie internal pterygoid nerve, and appears like a swelling upon that branch. The branches of the otic ganglion are seven in number ; two of dis- tribution, and five of communication. The branches of distribution are, a small filament to the tensor tym- pani muscle, and one to the tensor palati muscle ; the latter is usually derived from the internal pterygoid nerve, at the point where that nerve is embraced by the ganglion. The branches of communication are, two or three filaments to the outer portion of the inferior maxillary nerve ; one or two filaments to the auricular nerve ; a filament to the chorda tympani ; filaments to the arteria meningea media to communicate with the nervi modes; a filament which enters the cranium through the foramen spinosum with the arteria meningea media, and accompanies the nervus petrosus superficialis minor to the hiatus Fallopii, Avhere it joins the intume- scentia gangliformis of the facial nerve; a filament which enters the cranium through a small canal behind the foramen rotundum to join the Gasserian ganglion; a filament which enters a small canal near the foramen ovale to communicate with the Vidian nerve ; and the nervus petrosus superficialis minor. The latter nerve ascends from the ganglion to a small canal situated between the foramen ovale and foramen spinosum, and passes backwards on the petrous bone to the hiatus Fallopii, where it divides into two filaments. One of these filaments enters the hiatus and joins the intumescentia gangliformis of the facial; the other passes to a minute foramen nearer the base of the petrous bone, and enters the tympanum, where it communicates \vith a branch of Jacobson’s nerve. The Submaxillary ganglion is a small round or triangular ganglion situated on the submaxillary gland, in close relation with the gustatory nerve, and near the posterior border of the mylo-hyoideus muscle. Its branches of distribution, six or eight in number, divide into man}' filaments, which supply the side of the tongue, the submaxiUary and sublingual glands, and Wharton’s duct. Its branches of communication are, two or three from and to the gustatory nerve ; one from the chorda tympani ; two or three which form a plexus with branches of the hypoglossal nerve; and one or two filaments which pass to the facial artery, and communicate with the nervi molles from the cervical portion of the s}’mpathetic. Carotid plexus.—The ascending branch of the superior cervical ganglion enters the carotid canal ivith the internal carotid artery, and divides into two branches, which form several loops of communication with each other around the artery. These branches, together with those derived from the petrosal branch of the Vidian, constitute the