RADIUS. 81 ■ parnted from the cuneiform bone of the carpus by the triangular inter- articular cartilage. Attachment of Almcles.—To twelve: by the olecranon to the triceps extensor cubiti, one head of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and the an- coneus ; by the coronoid process, to the brachialis anticus, pronator radii teres, flexor sublimis digitorum, and flexor profundus digitorum ; by the shaft, to ^^9- 36.* tthe flexor profundus digitorum, flexor carpi ulnaris, pronator quadratus, anconeus, extensor carpi ulnaris, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, extensor secundi intemodii pollicis, and ex- tensor indicis. Radius.—The radius is the rotatory bone of the fore-arm ; it is divisible into a shaft and two extremities : unlike the ulna, its upper extremity is small, and merely accessory to the ■ formation of the elbow-joint; while the lower e extremity is large, and forms almost solely the i joint of the wrist. The superior eoctremity presents a rounded ■head, depressed upon its upper surface into a shallow cup. Around the margin of the head itis a smooth articular surface, which is broad on V the inner side, where it articulates with the lesser sigmoid notch of the ulna, and narrow in the rest of its circumference, to play in the orbicular ligament. Beneath the head is a >. constricted circular neck; and beneath the neck, on its internal aspect, a prominent process, the t'idxrosily. The surface of the tuberosity is sipartly smooth and partly rough ; rough below, . where it receives the attachment of the tendon )f the biceps; and smooth above, where a bursa s interposed between the tendon and the bone. The shaft of the bone is prismoid, and presents three surfaces, rhe anterior surface is somewhat concave superiorly, where it lodges •■'.he flexor longus pollicis ; and flat below, where it supports the pro- lator quadratus. At about the upper third of this surface is the nu- rritious foramen, which is directed upwards. The posterior surface is * The two bones of the fore-arm seen from the front. 1. The shaft of the i-ilna. 2. The greater sigmoid notch. 3. The lesser sigmoid notch, with i-vhich the head of the radius is articulated. 4. The olecranon process. 5. The fioronoid process. 6. The nutritious foramen. 7. The sharp ridges upon the -wo bones to which the interosseous membrane is attached. 8. The capitulum Inte. 9. The styloid process. 10. The shaft of the radius. 11. Its head sur- ounded by the smooth border for articulation with the orbicular ligament. .2. The neck of the radius. 13. Its tuberosity. 14. The oblique line. 16. r'he lower extremity of the bone. 16. Its styloid process.