METATARSAL BONES. 105 foot; the inferior, marked by a prominent ridge, the tuberosity, and a deep groove for tlie tendon of the peroneus longus ; and an exterrnal, the smallest of the whole, and deeply notched by the commencement of the peroneal groove. The articular surfaces are, the posterior, which' is of large size, and concavo-convex, to articulate with the os calcis ; anterior, of smaller size, divided l)y a slight ridge into two facets, for the fourth and fifth metatarsal hones ; and internal, a small oval arti- cular facet, upon a large and quadrangular surface, for the external cuneiform hone. If the bone be held so that the plantar surface, with the peroneal groove, look downwards, and the largest articular surface backwards, the small non-articular surface, marked by the deep notch, will point to the side corresponding with the foot to which the bone belongs. A rticulations.—Withfour bones; calcaneus, external cuneiform, and fourth and fifth metatarsal bones, sometimes also with the scaphoid. Attachment of Aluscles.—To three; the flexor brevis poUicis, adduc- tor pollicis, and flexor brevis minimi digiti. Upon a consideration of the articulations of the tarsus it will be ob- served, that each bone articulates with four adjoining bones, with the exception of the calcaneus which articulates with two, and the exter- nal cuneiform with six. Development.—By a single centre for each bone, with the exception of the os calcis, which has an epiphysis for its posterior tuberosity. The centres appear in the following order ; calcanean, sixth month; astragalan, seventh month ; cuboid, tenth month; external cuneiform, during the first year ; internal cuneiform, during the third year ; middle cuneiform and scaphoid, during the fourth year. The epiphysis of the calcaneus appears at the ninth jmar and is united with the dia- physis at about the fifteenth. The Metatarsal bones,in number, are long bones, and divi- sible therefore into a shaft and two extremities. Tlie shaft is pris- moid, and compressed from side to side ; the posterior extremity, or base, is square-shaped, to articulate with the tarsal bones, and with each other; and the anterior extremity presents a rounded head, cir- cumscribed by a neck, to articulate with the first row of phalanges. Peculiar Metatarsal bones.—Tloc first is shorter and larger than the rest, and forms part of the inner border of the foot; its posterior ex- tremity presents only one lateral articular surface, and an oval rough prominence beneath, for the insertion of the tendon of the peroneus longus. The anterior extremity has, upon its plantar surface, two grooved facets, for sesamoid bones. The second is the longest and largest of the remaining metatarsal bones; it presents at its base three articular facets, for the three cunei- form bones; a large oval facet, but often no articular surface, on its inner side, to articulate with the metatarsal bone of the great toe, and two externally, for the third metatarsjil bone. The third may be known by two facets upon the inner side of its