MUSCLES OF THE FOOT. 270 neatli the peroneus longus ; it arises from the lower half of the fibula, and terminates in a tendon which passes behind the external nuilleolus and through a groove in the os calcis, to be inserted into the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. Relations.—By its superjicial surface with the peroneus longus and fascia of the leg and foot. By its deep surface with the fibula, the os calcis, and cuboid bone. The lateral rehations of the muscle are the same as those of the peroneus longus. The tendon of the peroneus brevis has but two tendinous sheaths and two synovial membranes, one behind the external malleolus and common to both peronei, the other upon the side of the os calcis. Actions.—The peronei muscles are' extensors of the foot, conjointly with the tibialis posticus. They antagonise the tibialis anticus and peroneus tertius, which are flexors of the foot. The whole of these muscles acting together, tend to maintain the flatness of the foot, so necessary to security in walking. Foot. Dorsal Region. Extensor brevis digitorum, Interossei dorsales. The Extensor brevis digitorum muscle arises from the outer side of the os calcis, crosses the foot obliquelj’", and terminates in four tendons, the innermost of which is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, and the other three into the sides of the long extensor tendons of the second, third, and fourth toes. Relations.—By its upper surface with the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum, peroneus brevis, and with the deep fascia of the foot. By its under surface with the tarsal and metatarsal bones. Its inner border is in relation with the dorsalis pedis artery, and the innermost tendon of the muscle crosses that artery just before its division. The Dorsal interossei muscles are placed between the metatarsal bones; they resemble the anrdogous muscles in the hand in arising by two heads from the adjacent sides of the metatarsal- bones; their tendons are inserted into the base of the first phalanx, and into the digital expansion of the tendons of the long extensor. The first dorsal mterosseous is inserted into the inner side of the second toe, and is therefore an adductor: the other three are inserted into the outer side of the second, third, and fourth toes^ and are conse- quently abductors. Relations.—By their upper surface with a strong fascia which sepa- rates them from the extensor tendons. By their under surface with the plantar interossei. Each of the muscles gives passage to a small artery (posterior perforating) which communicates with the external planter artery. And between the heads of the first interosseous muscle the communicating arter}' of the dorsalis jied'is takes its course.