•20^ COCCYX. Development.—By twenty-one points of ossification; five for each of the three first pieces, viz. one for the body, one for each lateral por- tion, and one for each lamina; and three for each of the two last, namely, one for the body, and one for each lateral portion. In the progress of growth, and after puberty, fourteen epiphysal centres are added, namely, two for the surfaces of each body, one for each auricu- lar surface, and one for the thin edge of each literal border. Ossifica- tion begins in the bodies of the sacral pieces somewhat later than in those of the true vertebrae; the first three appearing during the eighth and ninth week, and the last two at about the middle of intra-uterine existence. Ossification of the lamellae takes place during the interval between the sixth and the ninth month. The epiphyses for the upper and under surface of the bodies are developed during the interval be- tween the fifteenth and eighteenth year; and for the auricular and marginal piece, after twenty. The two lower vertebral pieces, although the last to appear, are the first to be completed (between the fourth and fifth year), and to unite by their bodies. The union of the bodies takes place from below upwards, and finishes between the twenty- fifth and the thirtieth year, with the first two pieces. Articulations,—With four bones; the last lumbar vertebra, ossa innominata, and coccyx. Attachment of Musdes.—To seven pairs; in front the pyriformis, on the side the coccygeus, and l>ehind the gluteus maximus, latissimus dorsi, longissimus dorsi, sacro-lumbalis, and multifidus spinae. The Coccyx (xokkv^ cuckoo, from resembling a cuckoo’s beak) is composed of four small pieces, which foim the caudal termination of the vertebral column. The superior piece is broad, and expands late- rally into two transverse processes; it is surmounted bj’' an oval arti- cular surface and two cornua, the former to articulate with the apex of the sacrum, and the latter with the sacral cornua. The lateral wings sometimes become connected with the sacrum, and convert the notches for the fifth pair of sacral nerves into foramina. The remaining three pieces diminish in size from above downwards. Development.—By four centres, one for each piece. Ossification commences in the first piece soon after birth; in the second, between five and ten years; in the third, between ten and fifteen; and in the fourth, between fifteen and twenty. The pieces unite at an earlier period than” the bodies of the sacrum, the first two pieces first, then the third and fourth, and lastly the second and third. Between forty and sixty years, the coccyx becomes consolidated with the sacrum; this event taking place later in the female than in the male. Articulations.—With the s.acrum. Attachment of Muscles.—To three pairs, and one single muscle ; gluteus maximus, coccygeus, posterior fibres of the levator ani, and sphincter ani.