131 LIGAMENTS OF THE PELVIS. process of the last lumbar vertebra to that part of the crest of the ilium which surmounts the sacro-iliac articulation. It is triangular in form. 10. The Articulations of the Pelvis.—The ligaments belonging to the articulations of the pelvis are divisible into four groups:—1. Those connecting the sacrum and ilium; 2. those passing between the sacrum and ischium; 3. between the sacrum and coccyx; and, 4, be- tween the two pubic bones. 1st, Between the sacrum and ilium. Sacro-iliac anterior, Sacro-iliac posterior. 2nd, Between the sacrum and ischium. Sacro-ischiatic anterior (short), Sacro-ischiatic posterior (long). 3rd, Beticeen the sacrum and coccyx. Sacro-coccygean anterior, Sacro-coccygean posterior. 4th, Between the ossa pubis. Anterior pubic. Posterior pubic, Superior pubic. Sub-pubic, Interosseous fibro-cartilage. 1. Between the Sacrum and Ilium.—The anterior sacro-iliac liga- ment consists of numerous short ligamentous fibres, which pass from bone to bone on the anterior surface of the joint. The posterior sacro-iliac or interosseous ligament is composed of nu- merous strong fasciculi of ligamentous fibres, which pass horizontally between the rough surfaces of the posterior half oi the sacro-iliac arti- culation, and constitute the principal bond of connection between the sacrum and the ilium. One fasciculus of this ligament, longer and larger than the rest, is distinguished, from its direction, by the name of the oblique sacro-iliac ligament. It is attached, by one extremity, to the posterior superior spine of the ilium ; and, by the other, to the third transverse tubercle on the posterior surface of the sacrum. The surfaces of the two bones forming the sacro-iliac articulation are partly covered with cartilage, and partly rough and connected by the interosseous ligament. The anterior or auricular half is coated with cartilage, which is thicker on the sacrum than on the ilium.' The surface of the cartilage is irregular, and provided with a very delicate synovial membrane, which cannot be demonstrated in the adult, but is apparent in the young subject and in the female during pregnancy. 2. Between the Sacrum and Ischium.—The anterior or lesser sacro- ischiatic ligament is thin, and triangular in form ; it is attached by its apex to the spine of the ischium ; and by its broad extremity to the