338 SPERMATIC ARTERIES, The branches of the superior Mesenteric Artery are— Vasa intcstini tenuis, Ileo-colica, Colica dextra, Colica media. The Vasa intcstini tenuis arise from the convexity of the superior mesenteric artery. They vary from fifteen to twenty in number, and are distributed to the small intestine from the duodenum to the termi- nation of the ileum. In their course between the layers of the mesen- tery, they form a series of arches by the inosculation of their larger branches ; from these are developed secondary arches, and from the latter a third series of arches, from which the branches arise which are distributed to the coats of the intestine. From the middle branches a fourth and sometimes even a fifth series of arches is produced. By means of these arches a direct communication is established between all the branches given off from the convexity of the superior mesen- teric artery ; the superior branches moreover supply the pancreas and duodenum, and inosculate with the pancreatico-duodenalis; and the inferior mth the ileo-coUca. The Ileo-colic artery is the last branch given off from the concavity of the superior mesenteric. It descends to the right iliac fossa, and divides into branches which communicate and form arches, from which branches are distributed to the termination of the ileum, the caecum, and the commencement of the colon. This artery inosculates on the one hand with the last branches of the vasa intestini tenuis, and on the other with the colica dextra. The Colica dextra arises from about the middle of the concavity of the superior mesenteric, and divides into branches which form arches, and are distributed to the ascending colon. Its descending branches inosculate with the ileo-colica, and the ascending with the colica media. The Colica media arises from the upper part of the concavity of the superior mesenteric, and passes forwards between the layers of the transverse mesocolon, where it forms arches, and is distributed to the transverse colon. It inosculates on the right with the colica dextra ; and on the left with the colica sinistra, a branch of the inferior mesen- teric artery. The Spermatic arteries are two small vessels which arise fi-om the front of the aorta below the superior mesenteric ; from this origin each artery passes obliquely outwards, and accompanies the corre- sponding ureter along the front of the psoas muscle to the border of the pelvis, where it is in relation mth the external iliac artery. It is then di- rected outwards to the internal abdominal ring, and follows the course of the spermatic cord along the spermatic canal and through the scrotum to the testicle, to which it is distributed. The right spermatic artery