MUSCLES OF THE TONGUE, lielalions.—By its superficial or inferior surface with the mylo- hyoideus; by the deep or superior surface with the lower border of the genio-hyo-glossus. The Genio-iiyo-glossus {yXuaffa,, the tongue) is a triangular muscle, narrow and pointed at its origin from the lower jaw, broad and fan-shaped at its attachment to the tongue. It arises from a tubercle immediately above that of the genio-hyoideus, and spreads out to be inserted into the whole length of the tongue, from its base to the apex, and into the body of the os hyoides. Relations.—By its inner surface with its fellow of the opposite side. By its outer surface with the mylo-hyoideus, the hyo-glossus, the stylo-glossus, lingualis, the sublingual gland, the lingual artery, and the hj’^po-glossal nerve. By its upper border with the mucous mem- brane of the floor of the mouth, in the situation of the frsenum linguae; and by the lower border with the genio-hyoideus. Actions. — The whole of this group of muscles act upon the os hyoides when the lower jaw is closed, and upon the lower jaw when the os hyoides is drawn downwards and fixed by the depressors of the os hyoides and larynx. The genio-hyo-glossus is, moreover, a muscle of the tongue : its action upon that organ shall be considered with the next group. Fourth Group.—Muscles of the Tongue. Genio-hyo-glossus, Hyo-glossus, Lingualis, Stylo-glossus, Palato-glossus. These are already exposed by the preparation we have just made ; there remains, therefore, only to dissect and examine them. The Genio-hyo-glossus, the first of these muscles, has been described with the last group. The Hyo-glossus is a square-shaped plane of muscle, arising Roto. the whole length of the great cornu and from the body of the os hyoides, and inserted between the stylo-glossus and lingualis into the side of the tongue. The direction of the fibres of that portion of the muscle which arises from the body is obliquely backwards ; and that from the great cornu obliquely forwards ; hence thej' are described by Albinus as two distinct muscles, under the names of basio-glossus and cerato-glossus, to which he added a third fasciculus, arising from the lesser cornu, and spreading along the side of the tongue, the chondro- glossus. The basio-glossus slightly overlaps the cerato-glossus at its upper part, and is separated from it by the transverse portion of the stylo-glossus. Relations.—By its eodernal surface with the digastric muscle, the stylo-hyoideus, st3do-glossus, and mylo-hyoideus, with the gustator}' nerve, the hypoglossal nerve, Wharton’s duct, and the sublingual gland. By its internal surface with the middle constrictor of the