2G8 POSTERIOH TIlilAL REGION.—DEEP PAVER. and nerve. By its deep surface with the tibia and tibialis posticus. In the sole of the foot its tendon is in Fig. 110.* relation with the abductor pollicis and flexor brevis digitorum, which lie super- ficially to it, and it crosses the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. At the point of crossing it receives the ten- dinous slip of communication from the latter. The flexor longus pollicis must now be removed from its origin, and the flexor longus digitorum drawn aside, to bring into view the entire extent of the tibialis posticus. The Tibialis posticus (extensor tarsi tibialis) lies upon the interosseous membrane, between the two bones of the leg. It arises by two heads from the adjacent sides of the tibia and fibula their whole length, and from the interosseous membrane. Its tendon passes inwards beneath the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, and runs in the same sheath; it then passes through a proper sheath over the del- toid ligament, and beneath the calcaneo- scaphoid articulation, to be inserted into the tuberosity of the scaphoid and in- ternal cuneiform bone. While in the common sheath behind the internal malleolus, the tendon of the tibialis posticus lies intemallj' to that of the flexor longus digitorum, from which it is separated by a thin fibrous partition. A sesamoid bone is usually met with in the tendon close to its insertion. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the intermuscular septum, the * The deep layer of muscles of the posterior tibial region. 1. The lower extremity of the femur. 2. The ligamentum posticum Winslowii. 3. The tendon of the semi-membranosus muscle dividing into its three slips, i. The internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. 5. The external latei^ ligament. 6. The popliteus muscle. 7. The flexor longus digitorum. 8. The tibiiis pos- ticus. 9. The flexor longus pollicis. 10. The peroneus longus muscle. 11. The peroneus brevis. 12. The tendo AchUlis divided near its insertion into the os calcis. 13. The tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum muscles, just as they are about to pass beneath the internal annular ligament of the ankle; the interval between the latter tendon and the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis is occupied by the posterior tibial vessels and nerve.