ADDUCTOR POLLICIS. •247 I By its ejdernal surface with the flexor ossis metacarpi and metacarpal i bone. By its inner surface with the tendons of the long flexor muscles : and first lumbricalis. ' I The Adductor pollicis is a triangular muscle ; it arises from the 1 whole length of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger; and the I fibres converge to its insertion into the base of the first phalanx, j Relations.—By its anterior surface with the flexor brevis pollicis, j tendons of the deep flexor of the fingers, lumbricales, and deep palmar j .arch. By its joosferior surface with the metacarpal bones of the index j and middle fingers, the interossei of the second interosseous space, and j the abductor indicis. Its inferior border is subcutaneous. ij Ulnar^ or Hypothenar Region. Palmaris brevis. Abductor minimi digiti. Flexor brevis minimi digiti, Flexor ossis metacarpi (adductor). N Dissection.—Turn aside the ulnar flap of integument the palm of ' the hand ; in doing this, a small subcutaneous muscle, the palmaris brevis, will be exposed. After examining this muscle, remove it with the deep fascia, in order to bring into view the muscles of the little finger. The Palmaris brevis is a thin plane of muscular fibres which M ' arises from the annular bgament and palmar fascia, and passes trans- versely inwards to be inserted into the integument on the inner border :of the hand. Relations.—By its swperjicial surface with the fat and integument of the ball of the little finger. By its deep surface with the internal »i •oortion of the palmar fascia, which separates it from the ulnar artery, veins, and nerve, and from the muscles of the inner border of the hand. The Abductor minimi digiti is a small tapering muscle which irises from the pisifonn bone, and is inserted into the base of the first f'ljohalanx of the little finger. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the internal portion of .he deep fascia and the palmaris brevis ; by its deep surface with the ' lexor ossis metacarpi and metacarpal bone. By its inner border with a: he flexor brevis minimi digiti. The Flexor brevis minimi digiti is a small muscle arising from he unciform bone and annular ligament, and inserted into the base of ~ he first phalanx. It is sometimes wanting. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the internal portion of i.he palmar fascia, and the palmaris brevis. By its deep surface with ‘ he flexor ossis metacarpi, and metacarpal bone. Externally with the : ibductor minimi digiti, from which it is separated near its origin by •he deep palmar branch of the ulnar nerve and communicating artery internally with the tendons of the flexor sublimis and profundus.