INTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE. 46C ( posterior. Tlie anterior liranch, f the larger of the two, divides into | several branches which pass in I front of, and sometimes behind, * the median basilic vein at the ' bend of the elbow, and descend ! in the course of the palmaris Ion- ’ gus muscle to the wrist, distribut- i ing filaments to the integument in their course and commiuiicating with the anterior branch of the external cutaneous on the outer j side, and its own posterior branch \ on the inner side of the fore-arm. j The posterior branch sends off se- i veral twigs to the integument over the inner condyle and olecranon, and then descends the fore-arm in the course of the ulnar vein as far as the wrist, suppl}ring the integu- . ment on the inner side of the fore- arm and commimicating with the anterior branch of the same nerve in front, and the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve on the wrist. The Lesser internal cuta- neous NERVE or nerve of Wrisierg, the smallest of the branches of the brachial plexus, is very irregular in point of origin. It is a long and slender nerve, and usually arisesfrom the common trunk of the last cervi- cal and first dorsal nerve. Passing j downwards into the axillary space : it communicates vuth the external t branch of the first intercosto-hume- i ral nerve, and descends on the inner side of the internal cutaneous * The Brachial plexus of nerves with its branches and their distribution. 1. The brachial plexus. 2. The short thoracic nerves. 3. The long thoracic or external respiratory of Bell. 4. The phrenic nerve. 5. The supra-scapular nerve. 6. The subscapular nerves. 7. The external cutaneous nerve. 8. The point at which it pierces the coraco-brachialis muscle. 9. The internal cuta- neous nerve; the point at which it pierces the deep fascia. 10. The origin of the median nerve by two heads. 11. The bend of the elbow where the median passes between the two heads of the pronator radii teres, and of the flexor sub- limis digitorum. 12. Its muscular branches. 13. Its anterior interosseous branch. 14. The point at which the nerve passes beneath the annular ligament