191 LEVATOR PALATI. late. It arises from the soft palate, and is inserted into the inner sur- face of the pharynx, and posterior border of the thyroid cartilage. Actions.— The three constrictor muscles are important agents in deglutition ; they contract upon the morsel of food as soon as it is received by' the pharynx, and convey it downwards into the oeso- phagus. The styio-pharyTigei draw the pharynx upwards and widen it laterally. The palato-pharyngei also draw it upwards, and with ' the aid of the uvula close the opening of the fauces. Sixth Group.—Muscles of the soft Palate. Levator palati. Tensor palati, Azy'gos uvulae, Palato-glossus, Palato -pharymgeus. Dissection.—To examine these muscles, the pharynx must be opened from behind, and the mucous membrane carefully removed from off the posterior surface of the soft palate. The Levator palati, a moderately thick muscle, arises from the extremity of the pe- trous bone and from the poste- rior and inferior aspect of the Eustachian tube, and passing down by the side of the poste- rior nares spreads out in the structure of the soft palate as far as the middle line. Relations.—Externally with the tensor palati and superior constrictor muscle ; internally and posteriorly with the mucous membrane of the pharynx and soft palate ; and by its lower border with the palato-pharyn- geus. * The muscles of the soft palate. 1. A transverse section through the mid- dle of the base of the skull, dividing the basOar process of the occipital bone in the middle line, and the petrous portion of the temporal bone at each side. 2. The vomer covered by mucous membrane and separating the two posterior nares. 3, 3. The Eustachian tubes. 4. The levator palati muscle of the left side; the right has been removed. 5. The hamular process of the internal pterygoid plate of the left side, around which the aponeurosis of the tensor palati is seen turning. 6. The pterygo-maxillary ligament. 7. The superior constrictor muscle of the left side, turned aside. 8. The azygos uvul® muscle. 9. Tlie internal pterygoid plate. 10. The external pteiygoid plate. 11. The tensor palati muscle. 12. Its aponeurosis expanding in the structure of the soft palate. 13. The external pterygoid muscle. 14. The attachments of two pairs of muscles cut short; the superior pair belong to the genio-hyo-glossi