102 CALCANEUS. a constriction somewhat resembling a neck ; and the posterior extre- mity is narrow, and marked by a deep groove, for the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. Hold the astragalus with the broad articular surface upwards, and the rounded head forwards; the triangular lateral articular surface will point to the side to Avhich the bone belongs. Articulations.—With four bones; tibia, fibula, calcaneus, and sca- phoid. Fig. 45* The Calcaneus (os calcis) may be known by its large size and oblong figure, by the large and irregular portion which forms the heel, and by two articular surfaces, separated by a broad groove, upon its upper side. The calcaneus is divisible into four surfaces, superior, inferior, ex- ternal, and internal; and two ex- tremities, anterior and posterior. The superior surface is convex be- hind and irregularly concave in front, where it presents two and some- times three articular facets, divided by a broad and shallow groove (sul- cus calcanei), for the interosseous li- gament. The inferior surface is con- vex and rough, and bounded poste- riorly by the two inferior tuberosi- ties, of which the internal is broad and large, and the external smaller and prominent. The external sur- face is convex and subcutaneous, and marked towards its anterior third by two grooves, often sepa- rated by a tubercle, for the tendons of the peroneus longus and brevis. The internal surface is concave and grooved, for the tendons and vessels which pass into the sole of the foot. At the anterior extremity of this surface is a projecting pro- * The dorsal surface of the left foot. 1. The astragalus; its superior quadri- lateral articular surface. 2. The anterior extremity of the astragalus, which articulates with (4) the scaphoid bone. 3, 3. The calcaneus. 4. The scaphoid bone. 5. The.intemal cuneiform bone. 6. The middle cuneifonn bone. 7. The external cuneiform bone. 8. The cuboid bone. 9. The metatarsal bones of the first and second toes. 10. The first phalanx of the gi-eat toe. 11. The second phalanx of the groat toe. 12. The first phalanx of the second toe. 13. Its second phalanx. 14. Its third phalanx.