143 CARPAL ARTICULATIONS. transversely and longitudinally from bone to bone, upon the dorsal surface of the carpus. The palmar ligaments are fasciculi of the same kind, but stronger than the dorsal, having the like disposition on the palmar surface. The inierosseom ligaments are fibro-cartilaginous lamellae situated between the adjoining bones in each range : in the upper range they close the upper part of the spaces between the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones; in the lower range they are stronger than in the upper, and connect the os magnum on the one side to the unciforme, on the other to the trapezoides, and leave intervals through which the synovial membrane is continued to the bases of the metacarpal bones. The anterior annular ligament is a firm ligamentous band, which connects the bones of the two sides of the carpus. It is attached by one extremity to the trapezium and scaphoid, and by the other to the unciform process of the unciforme and the base of the pisiform bone, and forms an arch over the anterior surface of the carpus, beneath which the tendons of the long flexors and the median nerve pass into the palm of the hand. The articulation of tlve pisiform hone with the cuneiform is provided with a distinct sjmovial membrane, which is protected bj’’ fasciculi of ligamentous fibres, forming a kind of capsule around the joint; they are inserted into the cuneiforme, unciforme, and base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Synovial Membranes.—There are five synovial membranes entering into the composition of the articulations of the carpus :— The first is situated between the lower end of the ulna and the in- terarticular fibro-cartilage ; it is called sacciform, from forming a sac- culus between the lateral articulation of the ulna with the radius. The second is situated between the lower surface of the radius and interarticular fibro-cartilage above, and the first range of bones of the carpus beloiu. The third is the most extensive of the synovial membranes of the wrist; it is situated between the two rows of carpal bones, and passes between the bones of the second range, to invest the carpal extremities of the four metacarpal bones of the fingers. The fourthis the synovial membrane of the articulation of the meta- carpal bone of the thumb with the trapezium. The fifth is situated between the pisiform and cuneiform bone. Actions.—Very little movement exists between the bones in each range, but more is permitted between the two ranges. The motions in the latter situation are those of flexion and extension. 9. The Carpo-metacarpal Articulations.—The second row of bones of the carpus articulates with the metacarpal bones of the four fingers by dorsal and palmar ligaments ; and the metacarpal bone of the thumb with the trapezium by a true capsular ligament. There is also in the carpo-metacarpal articulation a thin interosseous band, which passes from the ulnar edge of the os magnum to the bases of the third and fourth metacarpal bones at their point of connection.