GOG MALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. by the recto-vesical fold of peritoneum, and which corresponds witli the trigonum vesicae on the interior of the bladder. Each vesicula is formed by the convolutions of a single tube, which gives off several irregular caecal branches. It is enclosed in a dense fibrous membrane, derived from the pelvic fascia, and Fig. 189.* is constricted beneath the isthmus of the prostate gland into a small excretory duct. The vas deferens, somewhat enlarged and convoluted, lies along the inner border of each vesicula, and is included in its fi- brous investment. It communicates with the duct of the vesicula, be- neath the isthmus of the prostate, and forms’h the ejaculatory duct. The ejaculatory duct is about three quarters of an inch in length, and running forwards, first between the base of the prostate and the isth- mus, and then through the tissue of the veru montanum, opens upon the mucous membrane of the urethra, near its fellow of the opposite side, at the anterior extremity of that process. MALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. The organs of generation in the male are, the penis and the testes, with their appendages. PENIS. The Penis is divisible into a body, root, and extremity. The body is surrounded by a thin integument, wliich is remarkable for the * The posterior aspect of the male bladder; the serous covering is removed in order to shew the muscular coat. 1. The body of the bladder. 2. Its fundus. 3. Its inferior fundus or base. 4. The urachus. 5, 5. The ureters. 6, 6. The vasa deferentia. 7, 7. The vesiculse seminales. The triangular area, bounded by the vasa deferentia and vesiculae seminales on either side, a dotted line above, and the numeral 3 below, is the space corresponding with the trigonum vesicae. It is this part of the bladder which is pierced, in puncturing the bladder through the rectum. The dotted line, forming the base of this triangular area, marks the extent of the recto-vesical fold of the peritoneum. t It has been customaiy hitherto, in works on anatomy, to describe the course of excretory ducts as proceeding from the gland, and.passing thence to the point at which the secretion is poured out. In the description of the vas deferens, with its connexion with the duct of the vesicula seminalis, I have adopted this plan, that I might not too far depart from established habit. But as it is more correct and consistent with the present state of science to consider the gland as a development of the duct, I have pursued the latter principle in the description of most of the other glandular organs of the body.