THE PANCREAS. .104 The Biliari! ducts are, the ductus communis choledochus, the cystic, and the hepatic duct. The Ductus communis choledochus hilis, recipio) is the common excretory duct of the liver and gall-bladder ; it is about three inches in length, and commences at the papilla situated on the inner 1 side of the cylinder of the perpendicular portion of the duodenum. Passing obliquely between the mucous and muscular coat, it ascends behind the duodenum, and through the right border of the lesser omen- tum; and divides into two branches, the cystic duct and the hepatic duct. It is constricted at its commencement in the duodenum, and j becomes dilated in its progress upwards. | The Q/siic duct, about an inch in length, passes outwards from the preceding to the neck of the gall-bladder, with which it is con- ; tinuous. The Hepatic duct continues onwards to the transverse fissure of the i liver, and divides into two branches, which ramify through the portal canals to every part of the liver. The coats of the hepatic ducts are an external or fibrous, and an in- ternal or mucous coat. The external coat is composed of a contractile fibrous tissue, which is probably muscular ; but its muscularity has ^ not yet been demonstrated in the human subject. The mucous coat ; is continuous on the one hand with the lining membrane of the ! hepatic ducts and gall-bladder, and on the other with that of the ' duodenum. t Vessels and Nerves.—The gall-bladder is supplied with blood by j the cystic artery, a branch of the hepatic. Its veins return their j blood into the portal vein. The nerves are derived fi-om the hepatic 1 plexus. THE PANCREAS. The Pancreas is a long, flattened, conglomerate gland, analogous to the sahvary glands. It is about six inches in length, and between three and four ounces in weight; is situated transversely across the posterior wall of the abdomen, behind the stomach, and resting on the aorta, vena portse, inferior vena cava, the origin of the superior mesen- teric artery, and the left kidney and supra-renal capsule; opposite the first and second lumbar vertebrae. It is divided into a body, a greater and a smaller extremity: the great end or head is placed towards the right, and is surrounded by the curve of the duodenum ; the lesser end extends to the left as far as the spleen. The anterior surface of the body of the pancreas is covered by the ascending posterior layer of peritoneum, and is in relation with the stomach, the first portion of the duodenum, and the commencement of the transverse arch of the colon. The posterior surface is grooved for the splenic vein, and tunnelled by a complete canal for the superior mesenteric and portal vein, and superior mesenteric artery. The upper border presents a deep groove, sometimes a canal, for the splenic arterj"^ and vein, and is