1 INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 309 :ii just as that vessel is about to make its turn inwards to reach the spheno-maxillary fossa. It descends upon the tuberosity of the supe- rior maxillar}' bone, and sends its branches through several small fora- mina to supply the posterior teeth of the upper jaw, and the antrum. The terminal branches are continued forwards upon the alveolar pro- cess, to be distributed to the gums and to the sockets of the teeth. The Infm-orhital would appear, from its size, to be the proper con- tinuation of the artery. It runs idong the infra-orbital canal with the superior maxillary nerve, sending branches into the orbit and down- wards, through canals in the bone, to supply the mucous lining of the antrum and the teeth of the upper jaw, and it emerges on the face at the infra-orbital foramen. The branch which supplies the incisor teeth is the anterior dental artery ; on the face the infra-orbital inosculates with the facial and transverse facial arteries. The Pterygopalatine is a small branch which passes through the pterj'go-palatine canal, and supplies the upper part of the pharynx and Eustachian tube. The Spheno-palatine, or nasal, enters the superior meatus of the nose through the spheno-palatine foramen, in company with the nasal branches of Meckel’s ganglion, and divides into two branches ; one of which is distributed in the mucous membrane of the septum, while the other supplies the mucous membrane of the lateral wall of the nares, together with the sphenoid and ethmoid cells. The Posterior palatine artery descends along the posterior palatine canal, in company mth the posterior palatine branches of Meckel’s ganglion, to the posterior palatine foramen ; it then curves forward, lying in a groove upon the bone, and is distributed to the palate. While in the posterior palatine canal it sends a branch backwards, through the small posterior palatine foramen, to supply the soft palate, and anteriorly it distributes a branch to the anterior palatine canal, which reaches the nares and inosculates with the branches of the spheno-palatine artery. The Vidian branch passes backwards along the pterygoid canal,'and is distributed to the sheath of the Vidian nerve, and to the Eustachian tube. INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. The internal carotid artery curves slightly outwards from the bifur- cation of the common carotid, and then ascends nearly perpendicularly through the maxillo-pharyngeal space * to the carotid foramen in the petrous bone. It next passes imvards, along the carotid canal, for- wards by the side of the sella turcica, and upuurds by the anterior clinoid process, where it pierces the dura mater, and divides into three terminal branches. The course of this artery is remarkable for the tfl number of angular curves which it forms; one or two of these flexures » * For the boundaries of this space see page 189.