THE KIDNEYS. 597 sists of straight parallel columns placed perpendicularly side by side. The medullary substance is generally of a dark brown colour, double the quantity of the yellow substance, soft and spongy in texture, and contains within its centre the trunk of a large vein, the vena supra- renalis. It is the large size of this vein that gives to the fresh supra- renal capsule the appearance of a central cavity : the dark-coloured pulpy or fluid contents of the capsule, at a certain period after death, are produced by softening of the medullary substance. Dr. Nagel* has shown, by his injections and microscopic examinations, that the appearance of columns in the cortical substance is caused by the direction of a plexus of capillary vessels. Of the numerous minute arteries, supplying the supra-renal capsule, he says, the greater num- ber enter the cortical substance at every point of its surface, and, after proceeding for scarcely half a line, divide into a plexus of straight capillar}' vessels. Some few of the small arteries traverse the cortical layer, and give off, in the medullary substance, several branches which proceed in different directions, and re-enter the cortical layer to divide into a capillary plexus in a similar manner with the first described. From the capillary plexus, composing the cortical layer, the blood is received by numerous small veins which form a venous plexus in the medullary substance, and terminate at acute angles in the large central vein. According to the more recent researches of Oesterlen and Mr. Simon, the appearance of columns is due to groups of small corpuscles or cyto- blasts associated with elementary granules and fat-cells collected toge- ther in the form of parallel cylinders or cones, each group being en- closed in a tube of delicate membrane (limitary membrane). The medullary substance and intercolumnar spaces contain cyto-blasts uni- formly scattered and interspersed with granules and fat-cells. Oester- len found also,|occasionaUy, in the medullary substance elongated spaces, without lining membrane, containing a thick greyish-white fluid. Vessels and Nerves.—The supra-renal arteries are derived from the aorta, from the renal, and from the phrenic arteries; they are remark- able for the innumerable minute twigs into which they divide pre- viously to entering the capsule. The supra-renal vein collecting the blood from the medullary venous plexus, and receiving several branches which pierce the cortical layer, opens directly into the vena cava on the right side, and into the renal vein on the left. The Lymphatics are large and very numerous; they terminate in the lumbar glands. The nerves are derived from the renal and from the phrenic plexus. THE KIDNEYS. The kidneys, the secreting organs of the urine, are situated in the lumbar regions, behind the peritoneum, and on each side of the ver- * Muller’s Archiv. 1836.