•204 STRUCTURE OF ARTERIES. which are partly longitudinal and partly encircle the cylinder of the tube in an oblique direction. Upon the surface the areobir tissue is loose, to permit of the movements of the artery in distention and con- traction. The middle coat is that upon which the thickness of the artery depends ; it is yellowish in colour, and so brittle as to be cut through by the thread in the ligature of a vessel. The internal coat is a thin serous membrane which lines the interior of the artery, and gives it the smooth polish which that surface presents. It is continuous with the lining membrane of the heart, and through the medium of the capillaries ivith that of the venous system. In intimate structure an artery is more complicated than the above description would imply. The internal coat, for example, is com- posed of two layers, and the middle of three, so that, wth the exter- nal coat, there are six layers entering into the composition of an artery. The innermost coat is a tesselated epithelium analogous to that of other serous membranes. The second coat from -within is a thin, rigid membrane, pierced with a number of round or oval-shaped holes, and supporting a thin layer of flat, longitudinal fibres. From these characters it has been denominated the fenestrated or striated coat. The third layer, which is the innermost part of the middle coat, is composed of flat, longitudinal fibres, analogous to those of organic muscle. The fourth layer, the thickest of the whole, is com- posed of muscular fibres of organic life, arranged in a circular direction around the vessel. The fifth, or outermost part of the middle coat is a thin layer of elastic tissue ; this is present only in the large arteries. The sixth is the external or areolo-fibrous coat. The arteries in their distribution through the body are included in a loose areolar investment which separates them from surrounding tissues, and is called a sheath. Around the principal vessels the sheath is an important structure ; it is composed of areolo-fibrous tissue, intermingled with tendinous fibres, and is continuous with the fasciae of the region in which the arteries are situated, as with the thoracic and cervical fasciae in the neck, transversalis and iliac fasciae, and fascia lata in the thigh, &c. The sheath of the arteries contains also their accompanying veins, and sometimes a nerve. The coats of arteries are supplied -with blood like other organs of the body, and the vessels which are distributed to them are named vasa vasorum. They are also provided with nerves ; but the mode of distribution of the nerves is at present rmkuown. In the consideration of the arteries, we shall first describe the aorta, and the branches of that tnink with their subdivisions, which toge- ther constitute the efferent portion of the systemic circulation ; and then the pulmonary artery as the efferent trunk of the pulmonary circulation.