417 CORNUA OF THK LATERAL VENTRICLES. and terminating by a point in the anterior lobe of the brain, at a short distance from its surface. The Posterior cornu or digital cavity curves inwards, as it extends back into the posterior lobe of the brain, and likewise terminates near the surface. An elevation corresponding with a deep sulcus between two convolutions projects into the area of this cornu, and is called the hippocampus minor. The JMiddle or descending cornu, in descending into the middle lobe of the brain, forms a very considerable curve, and alters its direction several times as it proceeds. Hence it is described as passing back- wards and outwards and downwards, and then turning forwards and inwards. This complex expression of a very simple curve has given origin to a symbol formed by the primary letters of these various terms; and by means of this the student recollects with ease the course of the cornu, bodfi. It is the largest of the three cornua, and termi- nates close to the fissure of Sylvius, after having curved around the crus cerebri. The middle cornu should now be laid open, by inserting the little finger into its cavity, and making it serve as a director for the scalpel in cutting away the side of the hemisphere, so as to expose it com- pletely. The Superior boundary of the middle cornu is formed by the under surface of the thalamus opticus, upon which are the two projections called corpus geniculatum internum and externum; and the inferior xcall by the various parts which are sometimes spoken of as the contents of the middle cornu: these are the— Hippocampus major, Pes hippocampi, Pes accessorius. Corpus fimbriatum. Choroid plexus, Fascia dentata. Transverse fissure. The Hippocampus major or cornu Ammonis, so called from its re- • semblance to a ram’s horn, the famous crest of Jupiter Ammon, is a i considerable projection from the inferior wall, and extends the whole : length of the middle cornu. Its extremity is likened to the foot of lan animal, from its presenting a number of knuckle-like elevations .upon the surface, and is named pes hipjiocampi. The hippocampus major is the internal surface of the convolution (gyrus fornicatus) of the lateral edge of the hemisphere, the convolution which has been pre- viously described as lying upon the corpus callosmn and extending ; downwards to the base of the brain to terminate at the fissure of Sylvius. If it be cut across, the section will be seen to resemble the extremity of i convoluted scroll, consisting of alternate layers of white and grey substance. The hippocampus major is continuous superiorly with the E E