•26 FRONTAL BONE. completed by the opposite parietal bone, which serves to contain the superior longitudinal sinus. Some slight pits are also observable near i this groove, which lodge the glandulse Pacchioni. anterior inferior angle h t\im and lengthened, and articulates with the greater wing of the sphenoid bone. Upon its inner surface t it is deeply channelled by a groove for the trunk of the arteria menin- gea media. This groove is frequently converted into a canal. The s posterior inferior angle is thick, and presents a broad and shallow [ groove for the lateral sinus. ! Development.—By a single centre. Ossification commences at the parietal eminence at the same time with the bodies of the vertebrae. Articulations.—With bones; with the opposite parietal bone, the occipital, frontal, temporal, and sphenoid. Attachment of Muscles.—To one only,—the temporal. The occi- pito-frontalis glides over its upper surface. Frontal Bone.—The frontal bone bears some resemblance in form to the under valve of a scallop shell. It is situated at the anterior part of the cranium, forming the forehead, and assists in the construc- tion of the roof of the orbits and nose. Hence it is divisible into a superior or frontal portion, and an inferior or orbito-nasal portion. Each of these portions presents for examination an external and inter- nal surface, borders, and processes. Eddernal Surface.—At about the middle of each lateral half of the frontal portion is a 'gvo]eci\on,i\ie frontal eminence. Below these points are the superciliary ridges, large towards their inner termination, and - becoming gradually smaller as they arch outwards : they support the eyebrows. Beneath the superciliary ridges are the sharp and prominent arches which form the upper margin of the orbits, the supra-orbital ridges. Externally the supra-orbital ridge terminates in the external angular process, and internally in the internal angular process; at the inner third of this ridge is a notch, sometimes converted into a fo- ramen, the supra-orbital notch, which gives passage to the supra-orbi- tal artery, veins, and nerve. Between the two superciliary ridges is a rough projection, the nasal tuberosity; this portion of the bone denotes by its prominence the situation of the frontal sinuses. Extending upwards and backwards from the external angular process is a sharp ridge, the commencement of the temporal ridge, and beneath this a depressed sutface that forms part of the temporal fossa. The orbito-nasal portion of the bone consists of two thin processes, i the orbital plates, which fonn the roof of the orbits, and of an inter- vening notch which lodges the ethmoid bone, and is called tlie ethmoidal fissure. The edges of the ethmoidal fissure arc hollowed into cavities, which, by their union with the ethmoid bone, complete the ethmoidal cells; and, crossing these edges transversely, are two small grooves, sometimes canals, which open into the orbit b}*^ the anterior and posterior ethmoidal foramina. At the anterior tennination of these edges are the irregular openings which lead into the frontal sinuses; and be-