OBTURATOR NERVE. 477 artery, and, passing between the tendons of the sartorius and gracilis, descends along the inner side of the leg with the internal saphenous vein, crosses in front of the inner ankle, and is distributed to the integument of the inner side of the foot as far as the great toe. The internal saphenous nerve receives from the obturator nerve two branches of communication, one near its upper part, which passes through the angle of bifurcation of the femoral artery, and the other at the internal condyle. The branches which it gives off in its course are, a femoral cutaneous bra?wJt, at about the middle of the thigh, distributed to the integument of the inner and posterior aspect of the limb, and communicating with other cutaneous filaments from the saphenous below the knee ; a tibial cutaneous branch proceeding from the nerve a little above the internal condyle, passing between the sartorius and gracilis, and descending the inner aspect of the leg to the ankle; an. articular branch, oi small size, proceeding from the nerve, while in the aponeurotic canal of the femoral artery, and passing directly to the knee-joint, to supply the synovial membrane ; an ante- rior cutaneous branch proceeding from the saphenous at the inner con- dyle, perforating the sartorius, and dividing into a number of filaments which supply the integument over the patella and around the joint, and the integument of the front and outer aspect of the leg as far as the ankle ; lastly, cutaneous filaments below the knee to supply the inner side and front of the leg and foot, and articular branches to the ankle-joint. The Obturator nerve is formed by a branch from the third, and another from the fourth lumbar nerve. It passes do^vnwards among the fibres of the psoas muscle, through the angle of bifurcation of the common iliac vessels, and along the inner border of the brim of the pelvis, to the obturator foramen, where it joins the obturator artery. Having escaped from the pelvis, it gives off two small twigs to the obtmntor extemus muscle, and divides into four branches, three ante- rior, which pass in front of the adductor brevis, supplying that mus- cle, the pectineus, the adductor longus, and the gracilis ; and a poste- rior branch, which passes downwards behind the adductor brevis, and ’ ramifies in the adductor magnus. From the branch which supplies the adductor brevis, a communir eating filament passes outwards through the angle of bifurcation of the I femoral vessels to unite with the long saphenous nerve. From the branch to the adductor longus a long cutaneous nerve proceeds, which issues firom beneath the inferior border of that muscle, sends filaments of communication to the plexus of the short saphenous nerve, and II descends to the inner side of the knee, where it pierces the fascia and . communicates with the long saphenous nerve. It is distributed to the integument of the inner side of the leg. From the posterior branch an articular branch is given off which pierces the adductor magnus muscle, accompanies the popliteal artery, and is distributed to the h synovial membrane of the knee-joint on its posterior aspect.