METACARPUS. 87 t The number of articulations which each bone of the carpus presents ^ -with surrounding bones may be expressed in figures, which will be ( found to facilitate very materially the student’s recollection; the num- •, her for the first row is 5531, and for the second 4475. I K f t I i I I Metacarpus.—The bones of the metacarpus are five in number. They are long bones, divisible into a head, shaft, and base. The head is rounded at the extremity, and flattened at each side, •for the insertion of strong ligaments ; the s/«<y^ifis prismoid,and marked -deeply on each side, for the attachment of the interossei muscles; and ’.the base is irregularly quadrilateral, and rough for the insertion of •-tendons and ligaments. The base presents three articular surfaces; one at each side, for the adjoining metacarpal bones; and one at the extremity, for the carpus. The metacarpal bone of the thumb is one-third shorter than the rest, rflattened and broad on its dorsal aspect, and convex on its palmar side; : the articular surface of the head is not so round as that of the other rmetacarpal bones; and the base has a single concavo-convex surface, : to articulate with the similar surface of the trapezium. The metacarpal bones of the different fingers may be distinguished i by certain obvious characters. The base of the metacarpal bone of : the index finger is the largest of the four, and presents four articular > surfaces. That of the middle finger may be distinguished by a r rounded projecting process upon the radial side of its base, and two s small circular facets upon its ulnar lateral surface. The base of the I. metacarpal bone of the ring-finger is small and square, and has two ' small circular facets to correspond with those of the middle meta- I carpal. The metacarpal bone of the little finger has only one lateral i articular surface. Development.—By two centres; one for the shaft, and one for the digital extremity, with the exception of the metacarpal bone of the ; thumb, the epiphysis of which, like that of the phalanges, occupies the carpal end of the bone. Ossification of .the metacarpal bones com- I mences in the embryo between the tenth and twelfth week, that is, > soon after the bones of the fore-arm. The epiphyses make their ap- ppearance at the end of the second, or early in the third year, and the i bones are completed at twenty. Articvlations.—The first with the trapezium ; second, Avith the tra- fpezium, trapezoides, and os magnum, and with the middle metacarpal tbone; third, or middle, with the os magnum, and adjoining metacarpal 1 bones; fourth, with the os magnum and unciforme, and with the ad- ; joining metacarpal bones; and, fifth, with the unciforme, and with the I metacarpal bone of the ring-finger. The figures resulting from the number of articulations Avhich each I metacarpal bone possesses, taken from the radial to the ulnar side, are 13,121. Attachment of Muscles. — To the metacarpal bone of the thumb, ‘ three, the flexor ossis metacarpi, extensor ossis metacarpi, and first