556 THK LUNGS. Thyroid Gland. The thyroid gland or body is one of those organs wliich it is difficult to classify from the absence of any positive knowledge with regard to ' its function. It is situated upon the trachea, and in an anatomical * arrangement may therefore be considered in this place, although bear- ing no part in the function of respiration. This gland consists of two lobes, which are placed one on each side of the trachea, and are connected with each other by means of an isthmus., which crosses its upper rings. There is considerable variety in the situation and breadth of the isthmus, which should be recollected in the performance of operations upon the trachea. In structure it is composed, according to Mr. Simon,* of a dense aggregation of minute and independent membranous cavities enclosed by a plexus of capil- lary vessels, and connected together by areolo-fibrous tissue. The cavities are filled with fluid, in which are found cyto-blasts and cells; the latter measuring -5-5^0 inch in diameter. In young animals the cyto-blasts lie in contact with the internal wall of the cavities, and constitute a kind of tesselated epithelium. The gland is larger in young subjects and in females, than in the adult and males. It is the seat of an enlargement called bronchocele, goitre, or the Derbyshire neck. i A muscle is occasionally found connected with its upper border or i with its isthmus ; and attached, superiorly, to the body of the os hy- | oides, or to the thyroid cartilage. It was named by Soemmering the 1 levator glandulcB tliyroidecefig. 173, p. 50. Vessels and Nerves.—It is abundantly supplied with blood by the superior and inferior thyroid arteries. Sometimes an additional artery is derived from the arteria innominata, and ascends upon the front of the trachea to be distributed to the gland. The wounding of the latter vessel, in tracheotomy, might be fatal to the patient. The nerves are derived from the superior laryngeal and sympathetic. THE LUNGS, The lungs are two conical organs, situated one on each side of the chest, embracing the heart, and separated from each other by that oi'gan and by a membranous partition, the mediastinum. On the ex- ternal or thoracic side they are convex, and correspond with the form of the cavity of the chest; internally they are concave, to receive the convexity of the heart. Superiorly they terminate in a tapering cone, which extends above the level of the first rib, and inferiorly they are broad and concave, and rest upon the convex surface of the diaphragm. Their posterior border is rounded and broad, the anterior sharp, and marked by one or two deep fissures, and the inferior border which * The Comparative Anatomy of the Thyroid Gland. Philosophical Transac- tions, 1844.