234 ANTEIUOU ilUWERAL REGION. By its internal border witli the axillary and brachial vessels and nerves, particularly with the median and external cutaneous nerve, by the latter of which it is pierced. By the external border with the short head of the biceps and brachialis anticus. The Biceps (bis—x.t(pa,Xai two heads) arises by two tendons, one, the sho7-t head, from the coracoid process in common with the coraco- brachialis ; the other, the long head, from the upper part of the glenoid cavity. The muscle is inserted by a rounded tendon, into the tuber- cle of the radius. The long head, a long slender tendon, passes through the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint enclosed in a sheath of the synovial membrane; after leaving the cavity of the joint, it is lodged in the deep groove that separates the two tubero- sities of the humerus, the bicipital groove. A small synovial bursa is interposed between the tendon of insertion, and the tubercle of the radius. At the bend of the elbow, the tendon of the biceps gives off from its inner side a broad tendinous band, which protects the brachial artery, and is continuous with the fascia of the fore-arm. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the deltoid, pectoralis major, superficial and deep fascia and integument. By its posterior surface the short head rests upon the subscapularis, from which it is separated by a bursa. In the rest of its extent the muscle is in re- lation with the humerus, the teres major, latissimus dorsi, and brachi- alis anticus ; from the latter it is separated by the external cutaneous nerve. By its inner border with the coraco-brachialis, brachial artery and veins, and median nerve ; the brachial vessels crossing its tendon at the bend of the elbow. By its outer border with the deltoid and supinator longus. The Brachialis anticus is a broad muscle covering the whole of the anterior surface of the lower part of the humerus; it arises by two fleshy serrations from the depressions on either side of the insertion of the deltoid, from the anterior surface of the humerus, and from the intermuscular septa attached to the condyloid ridges. Its fibres con- verge to be insei’ted into the coronoid process of the ulna. Relations.—By its anterior surf ace wiih. the biceps, external cuta- ' neous nerve, brachial artery and veins, and median nerve. By its | posterior surface with the humerus, anterior ligament of the elbow- f joint, and intermuscular aponeurosis. The latter separates it from the * triceps. By its external border with the supinator longus, extensor ^ carpi radialis longior, musculo-spiral nerve, and recurrent radial arter}*. By its internal border with the intermuscular aponeurosis, (which separates it from the triceps and ulnar nerve,) and with the pronator radii teres. Actions.—The coraco-brachialis draws the humerus inwards, and assists in flexing it upon the scapula. The biceps and brachialis anticus are flexors of the fore-arm, and the former a supinator. The brachialis anticus is a powerful protection to the elbow-joint.