KNEK JOINT. 150 The internal semilunar fibro-cartilaye forms an oval cup for the re- ception of the internal condyle of the femur ; it is connected by its convex border to the head of the tibia and to the internal and poste- rior ligaments, by means of its coronary ligament ; and by its two ex- tremities is firmly implanted into the depressions infront of and behind the spinous process. The external semilunar fibro-cartila/je bounds a circular fossa for the external condyle: it is connected by its convex border with the head of the tibia, and to the external and posterior ligaments by means of its coronary ligament; by its two extremities it is inserted into the depression between the two projections which constitute the spinous process of the tibia. The two extremities of the external cartilage being inserted in- to the same fossa, form almost a com- plete circle, and the cartilage being somewhat broader than the internal, it nearly covers the articular surface of the tibia. The external semilunar fibro- cartilage, besides giving off a fasciculus from its anterior border to constitute the transverse ligament, is continuous by some of its fibres with the extremity of the anterior crucial ligament ; poste- riorly it divides into three slips ; one, a strong cord, ascends obliquely forwards and is inserted into the anterior part of the inner condyle of the femur in front of the posterior crucial ligament; an- other is the fasciculus of insertion into the fossa of the spinous process ; and the third, of small size, is continuous Avith the posterior part of the anterior crucial ligament. The ligamentum mucosum is a slender conical process of synovial membrane enclosing a few ligamentous fibres which proceed from the transverse ligament. It is connected, by its apex, with the anterior part of the condyloid notch, and by its base is lost in the mass of fat which projects into the joint beneath the patella. Fvj. 73 * * The right knee joint laid open from the front, in order-to shew' the in- ternal ligaments. 1. The cartilaginous surface of the lower extremity of the femur with its two condyles ; the figure 5 rests upon Uie external; the figure 3 upon the internal condyle. 2. The anterior crucial ligament. 3. The pos- terior crucial ligament. 4. Tlie transverse ligament. 5. The attachment of the ligamentum mucosum; the rest lias been removed. 6. The internal semi- lunar fibro-cartilage. 7. Tlie external fibro-cartilage. 8. A part of tlie liga- mentum patell® turned down. 9. The bursa, situated between the ligamen- tum patellas and the head of the tibia ; it has been laid open. 10. The antero- superior tibio-iibular ligament. 11. The upper part of the interosseous mem- brane ; the opening above this membrane is for the passage of the anterior tibial artery.