SUTURES.—OSSA TRIQUETRA. 53 The schindylesis suture {tr^iv^vXnris, a fissure) is the reception of one bone into a sheath or fissure of another, as occiu:s in the articulation of the rostrum of the sphenoid with the vomer, or of the latter with the perpendicular lamella of the ethmoid, and with the crista nasalis of the superior maxillary and palate bones. The serrated suture is formed by the interlocking of the radiating fibres along the edges of the flat bones of the cranium during growth. When this process is retarded in the infant by over-distension of the head, as in hydrocephalus, and sometimes without any such apparent cause, distinct ossific centres are developed in the interval between the edges; and, being surrounded by the sutime, form independent pieces, which are called ossa triquetra, or ossa Wormiana. In the lambdoid suture there is generally one or more of these bones ; and, in a beau- tiful adult hydrocephalic skeleton in the possession of Mr. Liston, there are upwards of one hundred. The coronal suture (fig. 28) extends transversely across the vertex of the skull, from the upper part of the greater wing of the sphenoid rf one side to the same point on the opposite side ; it connects the .Tontal with the parietal bones. In the formation of this suture the edges of the articulating bones are bevelled, so that the parietal rest ipon the frontal at each side, and in the middle the frontal rests upon ;he parietal bones ; they thus afford each other mutual support in the lonsolidation of the skull. The sagittal suture (fig. 28) extends longitudinally backwards along ‘.he vertex of the skull, from the middle of the coronal to the apex of ■he lambdoid suture. It is very much serrated, and serves to unite ;he two parietal bones. In the young subject, and sometimes in the idult, this suture is continued through the middle of the frontal bone o the root of the nose, under the name of the frontal suture. Ossa ■riquetra are sometimes found in the sagittal suture. The lambdoid suture is named from some resemblance to the Greek etter A, consisting of two branches, which diverge at an acute angle rom the extremity of the sagittal suture. This suture connects the 'ccipital with the parietal bones. At the posterior and inferior angle >f the parietal bones, the lambdoid suture is continued onwards in a urved direction into the base of the skull, and serves to unite the ■ccipital bone with the mastoid portion of the temporal, under the iiame of additamentum suturae lambdoidalis. It is in the lambdoid • uture that ossa triquetra occur most frequently. The squamous suture (fig. 28) unites the squamous portion of the emporal bone with the greater ala of the sphenoid, and with the iiarietal, overlapping the lower border of the latter. The portion of he suture which is continued backwards from the squamous portion : f the bone to the lambdoid suture, and connects the mastoid portion vith the posterior inferior angle of the parietal, is the additamentum uturcB s([uamosce. The additamentum suturse lambdoidalis, and additamentum suturae quamosm, constitute together the mastoid suture.