502 CILIARY LIGAMENT,—IRIS. SO many centres to which a number of curved lines converge. It is tliis layer which is connected with the ciliary ligament. The middle or arterial layer {txmica lluyschiarm*) is formed principally by the ramifications of minute arteries. It is reflected inwards at its junction with the ciliary ligament, so as to form the ciliary processes. The internal layer is a delicate membrane {memhrana piymcnii) composed of several laminae of nucleated hexagonal cells, which contain the granules of pigmentum nigrum, and are arranged so as to resemble a tesselated pavement. In animals, the pigmentum nigrum, on the posterior wall of the eyeball, is replaced by a layer of considerable extent, and of metallic brilliancy, called the tapetum. The Ciliary ligament, or circle, is the bond of union between the external and middle tunics of the eyeball, and serves to connect the cornea and sclerotic, at their line of junction, with the iris and external layer of the choroid. It is also the point to which the ciliary nerves and vessels proceed previously to their distribution, and it receives the anterior ciliary arteries through the anterior margin of the sclerotic. A minute vascular canal is situated within the ciliarj* ligament, called the ciliary canal, or the canal of Fontana,t from its disco- verer. i The Iris (iris, a rainbow,) is so named from its variety of colour in \ different individuals; it forms a septum between the anterior and j posterior chambers of the eye, and is pierced somewhat to the nasal I side of its centre by a circular opening, which is called the pupil. By its periphery it is connected with the ciliary ligament, and by its inner circumference forms the margin of the pupil; its anterior surface looks towards the cornea, and the posterior towards the ciliary pro- cesses and lens. The iris is composed of two layers, an anterior or muscular, consist- ing of radiating fibres which converge from the circumference towards the centre, and have the power of dilating the pupil; and circular, which surround the pupil like a sphincter, and by their action produce contraction of its area. The posterior layer is of a deep purple tint, and is thence named uvea, from its resemblance in colour to a ripe grape. The Ciliary processes may be seen in two ways, either by removing the iris from its attachment to the ciliary ligament, when a front view of the processes will be obtained, or by making a transverse section through the globe of the eye, when they may be examined from behind, as in fig. 160. * Ruysch was bom at the Hague in 1638, and was appointed professor of Anatomy at Amsterdam in 1665. His whole life was employed in making in- jected preparations, for which he is justly celebrated, and he died at the ad- vanced age of ninety-three years. He came to the conclusion that the body was entirely made up of vessels. t Felix Fontana, an anatomist of Tuscany. His “Description of a New Canal in the Eye,” was published in 1778, in a Letter to the Professor of Ana- tomy in Upsal.