METACARPO-PHALANGEAL ARTICULATIONS. 145 facets are lined by a reflection of the great s}Tiovial membrane of the two rows of carpal bones. Actions.—The movements of the metacarpal on the carpal bones are restricted to a slight degree of sliding motion, with the exception of the articulation of the metacarpal bone of the thumb with the trape- zium. In the latter articulation, the movements flexion, extension, adduction, abduction, and circumduction. 10. Metacarpo-phalangeal A rtipulation. — The metacarpo-phalan- geal articulation is a ginglymoid joint: its ligaments are four in number,— Anterior, T wo lateral. Transverse. The anterior ligaments are thick and fibro-cartilaginous, and form part of the articulating surface of the joints. They are grooved ex- ternally for the lodgment of the flexor tendons, and by their internal aspect form part of the articular surfe.ce for the head of the metacarpal bone. The lateral ligaments are strong narrow fasciculi, holding the bones together at each side. The transverse ligaments are strong ligamentous bands passing be- tween the anterior ligaments, and connecting together the heads of the metacarpal bones of the four fingers. The expansion of the extensor tendon over the back of the fingers takes the place of a posterior bgament. Actions.—This articulation admits of movement in four diflerent directions, viz. flexion, extension, adduction, and abduction, the two latter being limited to a small extent. It is also capable of drcunv- duction. 11. Articulation of the Phalanges.—These articulations are gingly- moid joints : they are formed by three ligaments. Anterior, Two lateral. The anterior ligament is firm and fibro-cartilaginous, and forms part . of the articular surface for the head of the phalanges. Externally it is ; grooved for the reception of the flexor tendons. The lateral ligaments are very strong ; they are the principal bond ' of connection between the bones. The extensor tendon takes the place and performs the office of a posterior ligament. Actkms.—The movements of the phalangeal joints are flexion and extension, these movements being more extensive between the first and second phalanges than between the second and third. In connection with the phalanges it may be proper to examine cer- ' tain fibrous bands termed thcccc or vaginal ligaments, which serve to ' retain the tendons of the flexor muscles in their position upon the flat L