106 METATARSAL BONES. base, corresponding with the second, and may be distinguished by its smaller size. The fourth may be distinguished by its smaller size, and by having a single articular surface on each side of the base. The fifth is recognised bj' its broad base, and bj' its large tubero- sity, in place of an articular sur- face, on its outer side. Development.—Each bone by two centres; one for the bodj'and one for the digital extremity in the four outer metatarsal bones; and one for the body, the other for the base in the metatarsal bone of the great toe. Ossific deposition appears in these bones at the same time with the vertebrae; the epiphyses, commen- cing with the great toe and proceed- ing to the fifth, appear towards the close of the second year, consolida- tion being effected at eighteen. Articulations.—With the tarsal bones by one extremity, and with the first row of phalanges by the other. The number of tarsal bones with which each metatarsal articu- lates from within outwards, is the same as between the bones of' the metacarpus and carpus,—one for the first, three for the second, one for the third, two for the fourth, and one for the fifth, forming the cipher 13T21. Attachment of Muscles.—Ho fourteen; to the first, the peroneus longus and first dorsal interosseous muscle ; to the second, two dorsal interossei and transversus pedis ; to the third, two dorsal and one plantar interosseous, aiductor pollicis and transversus pedis; to the * The sole of the left foot. 1. The inner tuberosity of the os calcis. 2. The outer tuberosity. * Its posterior tuberosity. 3. The groove for the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum; this figure indicates also the sustentaculum tali, upon which it is placed. 4. The rounded head of the astragalus. 5. The sca- phoid bone. 6. Its tuberosity. 7. The internal cuneiform bone; its broad ex- tremity. 8. The middle cuneiform bone. 9. The external cuneiform bone. 10,11. The Qjiboid bone. 11. Refers to the groove for the tendon of the pero- neus longus: the prominence between this groove and figure 10 is the tuberosity of the bone. 12, 12. The metatarsal bones. 13,13. The first phalanges. 14, 14. The second phalanges of the four lesser toes. 15, 15. The third, or ungual phalanges of the four lesser toes. 16. The last phalanx of the great toe. Fig. 46.* *