75 COSTAL CARTILAGES. Costal Cartilages.—The costal cartilages serve to prolong the •ibs forwards to the anterior part of the chest, and contribute naainly ;o the elasticity of the thorax. They are broad at their attachment :o the ribs, and taper slightly towards the opposite extremit}*; they iliininish gradually in breadth from the first to the last; in length they 'ncrease from the first to the seventh, and then decrease to the last. The cartilages of the first two ribs are horizontal in direction, the rest ncline more and more upwards. In advanced age the costal cartilages ire converted more or less completely into bone, tliis change taking place earlier in the male than in the female. The first seven cartilages articulate with the sternum ; the three lext, with the lower border of the cartilage immediately preceding, while the last two lie free between the abdominal muscles. All the :artilages of the false ribs terminate by pointed extremities. Devekrpment.—The ribs are developed bj’^ three centres ; one for the lentral part, one for the head, and one for the tubercle. The last two have no centre for the tubercle. Ossification commences in the body somewhat before its appearance in the vertebrae; the epiphysal centres for the head and tubercle appear between sixteen and twenty, and are lonsolidated with the rest of the bone at twenty-five. Articulations.—Each rib articulates with two vertebrae and one lostal cartilage, with the exception of the first, tenth, eleventh, and ’ twelfth, which articulate each with a single vertebra only. Attachment of Muscles.—To the ribs and their cartilages are attach- id txcenty-trco pairs, and one single muscle. To the cartilages, the subclavius, stemo-thyroid, pectoralis major, internal oblique, rectus, tninsversalis, diaphragm, triangularis sterni, internal and external in- tercostals. To the ribs, the intercostal muscles, scalenus anticus, icalenus posticus, pectoralis minor, serratus magnus, obliquus externus, )bliquus internus, latissimus dorsi, quadratus lumborum, serratus posti- ;us superior, serratus posticus inferior, sacro-lumbalis, longissiraus dorsi, x;rvicalis ascendens, levatores costarum, transversalis, and diaphragm. Clavicle.—The clavicle is a long bone shaped like the italic letter and extended across the upper part of the side of the chest from the ipper piece of the sternum to the point of the shoulder, where it arti- mlates with the scapula. In position it is very slightly oblique, the iternal end being'somewhat lower and more anterior than the scapidar, ind the curves are so disposed that at the sternal end the convexity, ind at the scapular the concavity, is directed forwards. The sternal lalf of the bone is rounded or irregularly quadrilateral, and terminates n a broad articular surface. The scapular half is flattened from above lown wards, and broad at its extremity, the articular surface occupying >nly part of its extent. The upper surface is smooth and convex, and )artly subcutaneous; while the under surface is rough and depressed, or the insertion of the subclavius muscle. At the sternal extremity >f the umler surface is a very rough prominence, which gives attach- nent to the rhomboid ligament; and at the other extremity a rough