161 STRUCTURE OF MUSCLE. its myolemnia. The myolemma, or investing sheath of the ultimate fibre, is thin, structureless, and transparent. According to Mr. Bowman,* the ultimate fibres are polyhedral in shape [fig. 79] from mutual pres- sure. They are also variable in their size, not merelj' in dift'erent classes and genera of animals, and different sexes, but even in the same muscle. For example, the average diameter of the ultimate fibre in the human female is while that of the male is 3^, the average of both being, in round numbers, The largest fibres are met with in fishes, in which animals they averagethe next largest are found in man; while in other classes they range in the following order;— insects -^rrs ! reptiles ; mammalia ; birds The vUimate fibrils of animal life, according to Mr. Bowman, are beaded filaments consisting of a regular succession of segments and constrictions, the latter being narrower than the former, and the com- ponent substance probably less dense. An ultimate fibre consists of a bundle of these fibrils, which are so disposed that all the segments and all the constrictions correspond, and in this manner give rise to the alternate light and dark lines of the transverse striae. The fibrils are connected together with very different degrees of closeness in different animals ; in man they are but slightly adherent, and distinct longitudinal lines of junction may be observed between them ; they also separate very easily when ma- cerated for some time. Besides the more usual separation of the ultimate fibre into fibrils, it breaks when stretched, into transverse segments [fig. 80], corresponding with the dark lines of the striae, and consequently with the constric- tions of the fibrillae. When this I division occurs with the greatest ' facility, the longitudinal lines are indistinct, or scarcely perceptible. • On the Minute structure and Movements of Voluntary Muscle. By Wm. Bowman, Esq. From the Philosophical Transactions for 1840. t Transverse section of ultimate fibres of the biceps, copied from the illustra- '. tions in IMr. Bowman’s paper. In this figure the polyhedral fom of the fibres is seen, and their composition of ultimate fibrils. ^ An ultimate fibre, in which the traftsverse splitting into discs, in the direc- ■ tion of the constrictions of the ultimate fibrils, is seen. From Mr. Bowman’s I paper. Fig. 80.i