512 THE ORGAN OF HEARING. The apparatus of hearing is composed of three parts; the external ear, middle ear or tympanum, and internal ear or labyrinth. The External ear consists of two portions, the jnnna and meatus; the former representing a kind of funnel which collects the vibrations of the atmosphere, producing sounds, and the latter a tube which con- veys the vibrations to the tympanum. The Pinna presents a number of folds and hollows upon its surface, ■which have different names assigned to them. Thus, the external folded margin is called the lieliso (£X/|, a fold). The elevation parallel to and in front of the helix is called antilielix opposite). The pointed process, projecting like a valve over the opening of the ear from the face, is called the tragus (r^dyos, a goat), probably from being sometimes covered with bristly hair like that of a goat; and, a tubercle opposite to this, is the antitragus. The lower dependent and fleshy portion of the pinna, is the lobulus. The space between the helix and antihelix is named the fossa innominata. Another depres- sion is observed at the upper extremity of the antihelix, which bifur- cates and leaves a triangular space between its branches, called the scaphoid fossa; and the large central space, to which aU the channels converge, is the concha, which opens directly into the meatus. The pinna is composed of integument, fJbro-cartilage, ligaments, and muscles. The Integument is thin, contains an abundance of sebiparous glands, and is closely connected with the fibro-cartilage. The Fibro-cartilage gives form to the pinna, and is folded so as to produce the various convexities and grooves which have been described upon its surface. The commences in the concha, and partially di- vides that cavity into two parts; on its anterior border is a tubercle for the attachment of the attrahens aurem muscle, and a little above this a small vertical fissure, the of the hdix. The termination of the helix and antihelix forms a lengthened process, processus caudatus, which is separated from the concha by an extensive fissure. Upon . the anterior surface of the tragus is another fissure, the of the tragus, and, in the lobulus, the fibro-cartilage is whoUy deficient. The fibro-cartilage of the meatus, at the upper and anterior part of the cylindei’, is divided from the concha by a fissure which is closed in the entire ear by ligamentous fibres; it is firmly attached at its termina- tion to the processus auditorius. The Ligaments of the external ear are those which attach the pinna to the side of the head, viz. the anterior, posterior, and ligament of the tragus; and, those of the fibro-cartilage, which serve to preserve its folds and connect the opposite margins of the fissures. The latter are two in number, the ligament between the concha and the processus caudatus, and the broad ligament which extends from the upper mar-