VAGINA.—UTERUS. G18 VAGINA. The Vagina is a membranous canal, leading from the vulva to the uterus, and corresponding in direction with the axis of the outlet of the pelvis. It is constricted at its commencement, but near the uterus becomes dilated ; and is closed by the contact of the anterior with the posterior wall. Its length is variable ; but it is always longer upon the posterior than upon the anterior wall, the former being usually about five or six inches in length, and the latter four or five. It is attached to the cervix of the uterus, which latter projects into the upper extremity of the canal. In iStructure the vagina is composed of a mucous lining, a layer of erectile tissue, and an external tunic of contractile fibrous tissue, re- sembling the dartos of the scrotum. The upper fourth of the posterior wall of the vagina is covered, on its pelvic surface, by the peritoneum; while in front the peritoneum is reflected from the upper part of the cervix of the uterus to the posterior surface of the bladder. On each side it gives attachment, superiorly, to the broad ligaments of the uterus; and, interiorly, to the pelvic fascia and levatores ani. The Mucous membrane presents a number of transverse papUUe or rugce upon the upper and lower surfaces ojf the canal, the rugae ex- tending outwards on each side from a middle raphe. The transverse papillaj and rapM are more apparent upon the upper than upon the lower surface, and the two raphe are called the columns of the vagina. The mucous membrane is covered by a thin cuticular epithelium, which is continued from the labia, and terminates by a fringed border at about the middle of the cervix uteri. The Middle or erectile layer consists of erectile tissue enclosed be- tween two layers of fibrous membrane ; this layer is thickest near the commencement of the vagina, and becomes gradually thinner as it approaches the uterus. The Eocternal, or dartoid layer of the vagina, serves to connect it to the surrounding viscera. Thus, it is very closely adherent to the under surface of the bladder, and drags that organ down ndth it in prolapsus uteri. To the rectum it is less closely connected, and that intestine is therefore less frequently affected in prolapsus. UTERUS. The Uterus is a flattened organ of a pyriform shape, having the base directed upwards and forwards, and the apex domiwards and back- wards in the line of the axis of the inlet of the pehds, and forming a considerable angle with the course of the vagina. It is convex on its posterior surface, and somewhat flattened upon its anterior aspect. In the unimpregnated state it is about three inches in length, two in