182 DEPIIESSORS OF THE OS HYOIDES AND LARYNX. into the mastoid process of the temporal and into the superior curved line of the occipital hone. The sternal portion arises by a rounded tendon, increases in breadth as it ascends, and spreads out to a consi- derable extent at its insertion. The clavicular portion is broad and fleshy, and separate from the sternal portion below, but becomes gra- dually blended with the posterior surface of the latter as it ascends. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the integument, the pla- tysma myoides, the external jugular vein, superficial branches of the anterior cervical plexus of nerves, and the anterior layer of the deep cervical fascia. By its deep surface with the deep layer of the cervical fascia ; with the sterno-clavicular articulation, the stemo-lij’’oid, sterno- thyroid, omo-hyoid, scaleni, levator anguli scapulae, splenii, and the posterior belly of the digastric muscle; with the phrenic nerve, and the posterior-scapular and supra-scapular artery ; with the deep Ijnnphatic glands, the sheath of the common carotid and internal jugular vein, the descendens noni nerve, the external carotid artery and its posterior branches, the commencement of the internal carotid artery ; with the cervical plexus of nerves, the pneumogastric, the spinal accessorj% the hj^oglossal, the sympathetic and the facial nerve, and with the parotid gland. It is pierced on this aspect by the spinal accessory nerve and liy the branches of the mastoid artery. The anterior border of the muscle is the posterior boundary of the great anterior triangle, the other two boundaries being the middle line of the neck in front, and the lower border of the jaw above. It is the guide to the operations for the ligature of the common carotid artery and arteria innominata, and for (Esophagotomy. The posterior border is the anterior boundary of the great posterior triangle; the other two boundaries being the anterior border of the trapezius behind, and the clavicle below. Actions.—The platysma produces a muscular traction on the integu- ment of the neck, which prevents it from falling so flaccid in old persons as would be the case if the extension of the skin were the mere result of elasticity. It draws also upon the angle of the mouth, and is one of the depressors of the lower jaw. The transverse fibres draw the angle of the mouth outwards and slightly upwards. The sterno- mastoid muscles are the great anterior muscles of connection between the thorax and the head. Both muscles acting together bow the head directly forwards. The clavicular portions, acting more forcibly than the sternal, give stability and steadiness to the head in supporting great weights. Either muscle acting singly would draw the head towards the shoulder of the same side, and carry the face towards the opposite side. Second Group.—Depressors of the Os Hyoides and Larynx, Sterno-hyoid, Sterno-thyroid, Thyro-hyoid, Omo-hyoid. Dissection.—These muscles are brought into view by removing the