I'OSTKIUOR CKllVICAL NERVES. 4G-2 tails major, auricularis magnus, and posterior auricular branch of the facial. The Acromuiifs and Chivicuhn’s arc two or three large nerves which proceed from the fourth cervical nen-e, and divide into numerous branches which pass downwards over the clavicle, and are distributed to the integument of the upper and anterior part of the chest from the sternum to the shoulder. The Comnumicatimf branches are filaments which arise from the loop between the first and second cer\*ical nerve, and pass inwards to com- municate with the sympathetic, the pneumogastric, and the hypoglossal nerve. The first three cervical nerves send branches to the first cervical ganglion ; the fourth sends a branch to the trunk of the svm- pathetic, or to the middle cervical ganglion. From the second cer\ical nerve a large branch is given off, which goes to join the spinal acces- sory nerve. The Mtiscular bmnehes proceed from the third and fourth cervical nerves ; they are distributed to the trapezius, levator anguli scapul®, and rhomboidei muscles. The Communicans noni is a long, and slender branch fonned by fila- ments from the first, second, and third cervical nerves : it descends upon the outer side of the internal jugular vein, and forms a loop with the descendens noni over the sheath of the carotid vessels. The Phrenic nerm (internal respiratory of Bell) is formed by the union of filaments from the third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves, and one from the sympathetic. It descends to the root of the neck, resting on the scalenus anticus muscle, then crosses the first portion of the subclavian iirtery, and enters the chest between it and the subclavian vein. Within the chest it passes through the middle mediastinum, between the pleura and pericardium, and in front of the root of the lung to the diaphragm, to which it is distnbuted. Some of its filaments reach the abdomen through the openings for the oeso- phagus and vena cava, and communicate with the phrenic and solar plexus, and on the right side with the hepatic plexus. The left phrenic nerve is rather longer than the right, from the inclination of the heart to the left side. Po.sTKRiOR cKRVic.\L NERVES.—The posterior division of the .first cervical nerve (sub-occipital), larger th.an the anterior, escapes from the vertebral canal through the opening for the ^-ertebral artery, lying posteriorly to that vessel, and emerges into the triangular space formed by the rectus posticus major, obliquus superior, and obliquus inferior. It is distributed to the recti and obliqui muscles, and sends one or two filaments downwards to communicate nfith the second cervical nerve. The posterior branch of the sc-comi cervical ncrt'c is three or four times greater than the anterior branch, and is larger than the other posterior cervical nerves. The posterior branch of the third cervical nerve is smaller than the preceding, but larger than the fourth; and the other posterior cervical nerves go on progressivelj* decreasing to the seventh.