292 CPIAPTER V. ON THE ARTERIES. The arteries are the cylindrical tubes which convey the blood from the ventricles of the heart to every part of the body. They are dense in sti-ucture, and preserve for the most part the cylindrical form when emptied of their blood, which is their condition after death: hence they were considered by the ancients as the vessels for the transmis- sion of the vital spirits,* and were therefore named arteries to contain air). The artery proceeding from the left ventricle of the heart contains the pure or arterial blood, which is distributed throughout the entire system, and constitutes with its returning veins the greater or systemic circulation. That which emanates from the right ventricle, conve3's the impure blood to the lungs ; and with its corresponding veins esta- blishes the lesser or pulmonary circulation. The whole of the arteries of the systemic circulation proceed from a single trunk, named the aorta, from which they are given off as branches, and divide and subdivide to their ultimate ramifications, constituting the great arterial tree which per\mdes by its minute sub- divisions every part of the animal frame. The mode in which the division into branches takes place is deserving of remark. From the aorta the branches, for the most part, pass off at right angles, as if for the purpose of checking the impetus with which the blood wmuld otherwise rush along their cylinders from the main trunk ; but in the limbs a very different arrangement is adopted; the branches are given off from the principal artery at an acute angle, so that no impediment may be offered to the free circulation of the vital fluid. The division of arteries is usually dichotomous, as of the aorta into the two com- mon iliacs, common carotid into the external and internal, &c.; but in some few instances a short trunk divides suddenly into several branches which proceed in different directions; this mode of division is termed an aoeis, as the thyroid and coeliac axis. In the division of an artery into two branches, it is obser\Td that the combined arese of the two branches are somewhat greater than that of the single trunk ; and if the combined arese of all the branches at the peripherj’- of the bodj^ were compared with that of the aorta, it would be seen that the blood, in passing from the aorta into the nu- merous distributing branches, was flowing through a conical space, of * To Galen is due the honour of having discovered that arteries contained blood, and not air.