OBTUIIATOK artery. :u() The Artery^ of the corpus cavernosum pierces the crus penis, and runs forward in tlie interior of the corpus cavernosum, by the side of the septum pectiniforme. It ramifies in the parenchyma of the venous structime of the corpus cavernosum. Tlie Dorsal artery of the penis ascends between the two crura and symphysis pubis to the dorsum penis, and runs forward, through the suspensory ligament, in the groove of the corpus cavernosum to the glans, distributing branches in its course to the body of the organ and to the integument. , The Internal pudic artery in the female is smaller than in the male; its branches, with their distribution are, in principle, the same. The superficial perineal artery supplies the analogue of the lateral half of the scrotum, viz. the greater labium. The artery of the bulb sup- plies the meatus urinarius, and the vestibule ; the artery of the corpus cavernosum, the cavernous body of the clitoris, and the arteria dorsalis clitoridis, the dorsum of that organ. The Uterine and Vaginal arteries of the female are derived either from the internal iliac, or from the umbilical, internal pudic, or ischiatic arteries. The former are very tortuous in their course, and ascend between the layers of the broad ligament, to be distributed to the uterus. The latter ramify upon the exterior of the vagina, and supply its mucous membrane. Branches of the posterior trunk. The Ilio-lumbar artery ascends beneath the external iliac ves- sels and psoas muscle, to the posterior part of the crest of the ilium, where it divides into two branches, a luinbar branch which supplies i the psoas and iliacus muscles, and sends a ramuscule through the fifth intervertebral foramen to the spinal cord and its membranes; and an j iliac branch which passes along the crest of the ilium, distributing branches to the iliacus and abdominal muscles, and inosculating with [ the lumbar and gluteal arteries, and with the circumflexa ilii. The Obturator artery is exceedingly variable in point of origin ; it generally proceeds from the posterior tnmk of the internal iliac artery, and passes forwards a little below the brim of the pelvis to the upper border of the obturator foramen. It there escapes from the pelvis through a tendinous arch formed by the obturator mem- brane, and divides into two branches; an internal branch which cmres inwards around the bony margin of the obturator foramen, between the obturator externus muscle and the ramus of the ischium, and dis- tributes branches to the obturator muscles, the pectineus, the adductor muscles, and to the organs of generation, and inosculates with the in- ternal circumflex artery; and an external branch which pursues its course along the outer margin of the obturator foramen to the space between the gemellus inferior and quadratus femoris, where it inoscu-