FIBRES OF THE AURICLES. 547 rise to the appearance which is denominated miisculi pectinati. In their course they give off branches which connect adjoining fasciculi, and form a columnar interlacement between them. External Layer.—The fibres of the right auricle having completed the appendix, wind from left to right around the right border of this auricle, and along its anterior aspect, beneath the appendix, to the anterior surface of the septum. From the septum they are continued to the anterior surface of the left auricle, where they separate into three bands, superior, anterior, and posterior. The superior band proceeds onwards to the appendix, and encircles the apex of the auricle. The anterior band passes to the left, beneath the appendix, and winds as a broad layer completely around the base of the auricle, and through the septum to the root of the aorta, to which it is partlj^ attached, and from this point is continued onwards to the appendix, where its fibres terminate by interlacing with the musculi pectinati. The posterior band crosses the left auricle obliquely to its posterior part, and winds from left to right around its base, encircling the open- ings of the pulmonarj’^ veins ; some of its fibres are lost on the sur- face of the auricle, others are continued onwards to the base of the aorta ; and a third set, forming a small band, are prolonged along the , anterior edge of the appendix to its apex, where they are continuous with the stiperior band. The septum auricularum has four sets of fibres entering into its formation ; 1. The fibres arising from the auri- culo-ventricular rings at each side ; 2. Fibres aidsing from the root of [ • the aorta, which pass upwards to the transverse band, and to the root of the superior cava ; 3. Those fibres of the anterior band that pass ; through the lower part of the septum in their course around the left . auricle ; and, 4. A slender fasciculus, which crosses through the sep- 11 turn from the posterior part of the right auriculo-ventricular ring to the I; left auricle. It will be remarked, from this description, that the left auricle is I (considerably thicker and more muscular than the right. V essels and Nerves.—The Arteries supplying the heart are the an- Itterior and posterior coronary. The Veins accompany the arteries, and leempty themselves by the common coronary vein into the right auricle. liThe lymphatics terminate in the glands about the root of the heart. Iirhe nerves of the heart are derived from the cardiac plexuses, which Irire formed by communicating filaments from the sympathetic and smeumogastric.