375 VEINS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. the termination of the external jugular. The two veins communicate with each other, and with the external and internal jugular vein. The Internal juyidar vein, formed by the convergence of the lateral and inferior petrosal sinus, commences at the foramen lacerum poste- rius on each side of the base of the skull, and descends the side of the neck, lying, in the first instance, to the outer side of the internal carotid, and then upon the outer side of the common carotid artery to the root of the neck, where it unites with the subclavian, and consti- tutes the vena innominata. At its commencement, the internal jugu- lar vein is posterior and external to the internal carotid arter}'-, and the eighth and ninth pairs of nerves; lower down, the vein and artery are on the same plane, the glosso-pharyngeal and hypoglossal nerves passing forwards between them, the pneumogastric being between and behind in the same sheath, and the nervus accessorius crossing ob- liquely behind the vein. The Branches which the internal jugular receives in its coiu’se are, the facial, the lingtial, the inferior pharyngeal, the occipital, and the superior and inferior thyroid veins. The Vertebral vein descends by the side of the vertebral artery in the canal formed by the foramina in the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, and terminates at the root of the neck in the com- mencement of the vena innominata. In the lower part of the vertebral canal it frequently divides into two branches, one of which advances forwards, while the other passes through the foramen in the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra, before opening into the vena innominata. The Branches which it receives in its course are the posterior condy- loid vein, muscular branches, the cervical meningo-rachidian veins, and near its termination, the superficial and deep cervical veins. The Inferior thyroid veins, two, and frequently more in number, are situated one on each side of the trachea, and receive the venous blood from the thyroid gland. They communicate with each other, and with the superior thyroid veins, and form a plexus upon the front of the trachea. The right vein terminates in the right vena innominata, just at its union with the superior cava, and the left in the left vena innominata. VEINS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The veins of the upper extremity are the deep and superficial. The deep veins accompany the branches and trunks of the arteries, and constitute their vence comites. The venae comites of the radial and ulnar arteries are enclosed in the same sheath with those vessels, and terminate at the bend of the elbow in the brachial veins. The brachial venae comites are situated one on each side of the artery, and open into the axillaiy vein ; the axillary becomes the subclavian, and the subclavian unites with the internal jugular to form the vena inno- minata.