LIGAMENTS OF THE LOWER JAW. 126 The external lateral ligament is a short and thick hand of fibres, passing obliquely backwards from the tubercle of the zygoma, to the external surface of the neck of the lower jaw. It is in relation, ex- ternaUy with the integument of the face, and internally with the two synovial membranes of the articulation and the interarticular cartilage. The external lateral ligament acts conjointly with its fellow of the op- posite side of the head in the movements of the jaw. The internal lateral ligament has no connection with the articulation of the lower jaw, and is incorrectly named in relation to that joint; it is a thin aponeurotic expansion extending from the extremity of the spinous process of the sphenoid bone to the margin of the dental fora- men. It is pierced at its insertion by the m}do-hyoidean nerve. A triangular space is left between the internal lateral ligament and the neck of the jaw, in which are situated the internal maxillary artery and auricular nerve, the inferior dental artery and nen'e, and a part of the external pterygoid muscle ; internally it is in relation with the internal pterygoid muscle. The capsular ligament consists of numerous irregular ligamentous Fig. 60.* fibres, which pass from the edge of the glenoid cavity to the neck of the lower jaw, and surround the articulation; on the inner side of the joint they form a pretty strong fasciculus. The interarticular fibrous cartilage is a thin oval plate, thicker at the edges than in the centre, and placed horizontally between the head of the condyle of the lower jaw and the glenoid cavity. It is connected * An internal view of the articulation of the lower jaw. 1. A section through the petrous portion of the tempoj-al bone and spinous process of the sphenoid. 2. An internal view of the ramus, and part of the body of the lower jaw. 3. The internal portion of the capsular ligament. 4. The internal lateral ligament. 5.“A small interval at its insertion through which the mylo-hyoidean nerve passes. 6. The stylo-maxillary ligament, a process of the deep cervical fascia.