TUNICA ALBUGINEA. 499 Anteriorly it presents a bevelled edge which receives the cornea in the same way that a watch-glass is received by the groove in its case. Its anterior surface is covered by a thin tendinous layer, the tunica albuginea, derived from the expansion of the tendons of the four recti muscles. By its posterior surface it gives attachment to the two oblique muscles. The tunica albuginea is covered, for a part of its extent, by the mucous membrane of the front of the eye, the conjunc- tiva; and, by reason of the brilliancy of its whiteness, gives occasion to the common expression, “ the white of the eye.” At the entrance of the optic nerve, the sclerotic forms a thin cribriform lamella {lamina cribrosa), which is pierced by a number of minute openings for the passage of the nervous filaments. One of these openings, larger than the rest, and situated in the centre of the lamella, is the parus ojjticus, through which the arteria centralis retinm enters the eyeball. Fi(i. 158.* • A longitudinal section of the globe of the eye. 1. The sclerotic, thicker behind than in front. 2. The cornea, received within the anterior margin of the sclerotic, and connected with it by means of a bevelled edge. 3. The cho- roid, connected anteriorly with (4) the ciliary ligament, and (5) the cUiaiy pro- cesses. 6. The iris. 7. The pupil. 8. The third layer of the eye. the retina, terminating anteriorly by an abrupt border at the commencement of the ciliary processes. 9. The canal of Petit, which encircles the lens (12); the thin layer in front of this canal is the zonula ciliaris, a prolongation of the vascular layer jf the retina to the lens. 10. The anterior chamber of the eye, containing the iqneous humour: the lining membrane by which the humour is secreted is represented in the diagram. 11. The posterior chamber. 12. The lens, more x>nvex behind than before, and enclosed in its proper capsule. 18. The vitreous : lumour enclosed in the hyaloid membrane, and in cells formed in its interior by .hat membrane. 14. A tubular sheath of the hyaloid membrane, which serves or the passage of the artery of the capsule of the lens. 15. The neurilemma of he optic nerve. 16. The arteria centralis retin®, embedded in the centre of he optic nerve.