613 TESTIS. EPIDIDYMIS. TESTES. The Testis (testicle) is a small obloDg and rounded gland, some- what compressed upon the sides and behind, and suspended in the cavity of the scrotum by the spermatic cord. Its position in the scrotum is oblique ; so that the upper extremity is directed upwards and forwards, and a little outwards ; the lower, downwards and backwards, and a little inwards ; the convex border looks forwards and downwards, and the flattened border, to which the cord is attached, backwards and upwards. Lying against its outer and posterior border is a flattened body which follows the course of the •testicle, and extends from its upper to its lower extremity ; this body is named, from its relation to the testis, epididymis Q.7ri, upon, Vt’ivy.os, the testicle); it is divided into a central part or bod}^, an upper extre- mity or globus major, and a lower extremity, globus minor (cauda) epi- didjTnis. The globus major is situ- ated against the upper end of the testicle, to which it is closely adhe- rent ; the globus minor is placed at its lower end, is attached to the testis by areolar tissue, and curves upwards, to become continuous with the vas deferens. The testis is in- vested by three tunics, tunica vagi- nalis, timica albuginea, and tunica vasculosa, and is connected to the inner surface of the dartos by a large quantitj* of extremely loose areolar tissue, in which fat is never deposited, but which is very sus- ceptible of serous infiltration. The Tunica vaginalis is a pouch of serous membrane derived from the peritoneum in the descent of the testis, and afterwards obliterated from the abdomen to within a short distance of the gland. Like other * A transverse section of the testicle. 1. The cavity of the tunica vaginalis; the most external layer is the tunica vaginalis reflexa; and that in contact ■with the organ, the tunica vaginalis propria. 2. The tunica albuginea. 3. The mediastinum testis, giving oil' numerous fibrous cords in a radiated direction to the internal surface of the tunica albuginea. The cut extremities of the vessels below the number belong to the rete testis; and those above, to the arteries and veins of the organ. 4. The tunica vasculosa, or pia mater testis. 5. One of the lobules, consisting of the convolutions of the tubuli seminiferi, and ter- minating by a single duct, the vas rectum. Corresponding lobules are seen between the other fibrous cords of the mediastinum. 6. Section of the epidi- dymis.