VASTUS EXTERNUS AND INTERNUS. 257 longus, an isosceles triangle, whereof the base corresponds with Pou- part’s ligament. A perpendicular line, drawn from the middle of the base to the apex of this triangle, immediately overlies the femoral artery with its sheath. The Rectus (straight) muscle is fusiform in its shape and bipenni- fomi in the disposition of its fibres. It arises by two round tendons, one from the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium, the other from the upper lip of the acetabulum ; and is inserted by a broad and strong tendon, into the upper border of the patella. It is more correct ; to consider the patella as a sesamoid bone, developed within the ; tendon of the rectus; and the ligamentum patellae as the continuation of the tendon to its insertion into the tubercle of the tibia. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the gluteus medius, psoas and iliacus, sartorius ; and for the lower three-fourths of its extent, with the fascia lata. By its deep smface with the capsule of the hip- joint, the external circumflex vessels, crureus, and vastus internus and extemus. The rectus must now be divided through its middle, and the two ends turned aside, to bring clearly into view the next muscles. The three next muscles are generally considered collectively under the name of triceps extensor cruris. Adopting this view, the muscle 5 surrounds the whole of the femur, excepting the rough line, (linea - aspera) on its posterior aspect. Its division into three parts is not well defined ; the fleshy mass upon each side being distinguished by the names of vastus internus and extemus, the middle portion by that of cmreus. The Vastus externus, narrow below and broad above, arises from the outer border of the patella, and is inserted into the femur and outer side of the linea aspera, as high as the base of the trochanter major. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the fascia lata, rectus, : biceps, semi-membranosus and gluteus maximus, a synovial bursa being interposed between it and the latter. By its deep surface with the crureus and femur. The Vastus internus, broad below and narrow above, arises ; from the inner border of the patella, and is inserted into the femur a and inner side of the linea aspera as high up as the anterior intertro- chanteric line. I Relations.—By its superficial surface with the psoas and iliacus, t r rectus, sartorius, femoral artery and vein and saphenous nerves, pecti- I ' neus, adductor longus, brevis, and magnus, and fascia lata. By its j i deep surface with the cmreus and femur. I The Crureus (eras, the leg) arises from the upper border of the patella, and is inserted into the front aspect of the femur, as high as the anterior intertrochanteric line. When the crureus is divided from i its insertion, a small muscular fasciculus is often seen upon the lower 1 part of the femur, which is inserted into the pouch of synovial mem- K brane, that extends upwards from the knee-joint, behind the patella. s