44'2 FIFTH FAIR OF NER\'KS, a recurrent branch, some filaments of communication to the ophthalmic nerve, and a branch to assist in forming the lachr\’mal nerve ; the recurrent braiich, which consists of sympathetic filaments derived from the carotid plexus, passes backwards between the layers of the tento- rium, and divides into two or three filaments, which are distributed to the lining membrane of the lateral sinus. This recurrent nerve is some- times a branch of the ophthalmic, and occasionally proceeds directly from the carotid plexus. Fifth pair. Trifaciat (trigeminus).—The fifth nerve, the great sensitive nerve of the head and face, and the largest cranial nerve, is analogous to the spinal nerves in its origin by two roots, from the an- terior and posterior columns of the spinal cord, and in the existence of a ganglion on the posterior root. It arises* from a tract of yellowish- white matter situated in front of the floor of the fourth ventricle and the origin of the auditory nerve, and behind the crus cerebelli. This tract divides inferiorly into two fasciculi which may be traced down- wards into the spinal cord, one being continuous ivith tbe fibres of the anterior column, the other with the posterior column. Proceeding from this origin the two roots of the nerve pass forward, and issue from the brain upon the anterior part of the crus cerebelli, where they are sepa- rated by a slight interval. The anterior is much smaller than the pos- terior, and the two together constitute the fifth nerve, which, in this situation, consists of seventy to a hundred filaments held together by pia mater. The nerve then passes through an oval opening in the bor- der of the tentorium, near the extremity of the petrous bone, and spreads out into a large semilunar ganglion, the Gasserian. If the ganglion be turned over, it will be seen that the anterior root lies against its under surface without ha^fing any connection with it, and may be followed onwards to the inferior maxillary nerve. The Gasse- rian ganglion divides into three branches, the ophthalmic, superior maxillarj', and inferior maxillary. The Ophthalmic nerve is a short trunk, being not more than three quarters of an inch in length ; it arises from the upper angle of the Gasserian ganglion, beneath the dura mater, and passes forwards through the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, Ij'ing externally to the other nerves ; it divides into three branches. Previously to its dmsion it receives several filaments from the carotid plexus, and gives off a small recurrent nerve, that passes backwards with the recurrent branch of the fourth nerve between the two layers of the tentorium to the lining membrane of the lateral sinus. The Branches of the ophthalmic nerve are, the— Frontal, Lachr3Tnal, Nasal. * I have adopted the origin of this nerve, given by Dr. Alcoek, of Dublin, in the Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology, as the result of his dissections. Mr. Mayo also traces the anterior root of the nerve to a similar origin.