205 SIXTH LAYER. process of the atlas, and is inserted into the rough surface of the occi- pital bone, extenial to the condyle. The Obliquus inferior arises from the spinous process of the axis, and passes obliquely outwards to be inserted into the extremity of the transverse process of the atlas. The Obliquus superior aiises from the extremity of the trans- verse process of the atlas, and passes obliquely inwards to be inserted into the rough surfece of the occipital bone, between the curved lines. Relations.—By their superficial surfaee the recti and obliqui are in relation with a strong aponeurosis which separates them from the corn- plexus. By their deep surface with the atlas and axis, and their arti- culations. The rectns posticus major partly covers in the rectus minor. The rectus lateralis is in relation by its anterior surface with the internal jugular vein, and by its posterior surface with the vertebral artery. Siocth Layer. Dissection.—The semi-spinales muscles must both be removed to obtain a good view of the multifidus spime, which lies beneath them, and fills up the concavity between the spinous and transverse processes, the whole length of the vertebral column. The MuIvTifidus SPiNiE consists of a great number of fleshy fasci- culi extending between the transverse and spinous processes of the vertebrae, from the sacrum to the axis. Each fasciculus arises from a transverse process, and is inserted into the spinous process of the first or second vertebra above. Some deep fasciculi of the multifidus spinae have recently been described by Theile under the name of rotatores sjnnce. Relations.—By its superficial sutface with the longissimus dorsi, semi-spinalis dorsi, and semi-spinalis colli. By its deep surface with the arches and spinous processes of the vertebral column, and in the cervical region with the ligamentum nuchae. The Levatores costarum, twelve in number on each side, arise from the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae, and pass ob- liquely outwards and downwards to be inserted into the rough surface between the tubercle and angle of the rib below them. The first of these muscles arises from the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra, and the last from that of the eleventh dorsal. The levatores of the inferior ribs, besides the distribution here described, send a fasciculus downwards to the second rib below their origin, and conse- quently are inserted into two ribs. Relations.—By their superfieial surface with the longissimus dorsi and sacro-lumbalis. By their deep suiface with the intercostal muscles and ribs. The SuPRA-SPiNALiH is a small and irregular muscle lying upon the spinous processes in the cervical region, and composed of several fasciculi. The fasciculi arise from the inferior cervical and superior