554 GLANDS OF THE LARYNX. while the space included by the constriction is a narrow, triangular fis- sure, the glottis or rima glottidis. The form of the glottis is that of an isosceles triangle, bounded on the sides by the chorda vocales and inner surface of the arytenoid cartilages, and behind by the aryte- noideus muscle. Its length is greater in the male than in the female, and in the former measures somewhat less than an inch. Immediate- ly above the prominence caused by the chorda vocalis, and extending nearly its entire length on each side of the cavity of the larynx, is an elliptical fossa, the ventricle of tlie larynx. This fossa is bounded below by the chorda vocalis, which it serves to isolate, and above by a border of mucous membrane folded upon the lower edge of the superior thyro- arytenoid ligament. The whole of the cavity of the larynx, with its prominences and depressions, is lined by mucous membrane, which is continuous superiorly with that of the mouth and phar\mx, and infe- riorly is prolonged through the trachea and bronchial tubes into the lungs. In the ventricles of the larynx the mucous membrane forms a cffical pouch of variable size, termed by Air. Hilton the sacadus laryngis.* The sacculus laryngis is directed upwards, sometimes ex- tending as high as the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and occa- sionally above that border. When dissected from the interior of the larynx it is found covered by the aryteno-epiglottideus muscle and a fibrous membrane, which latter is attached to the superior thyro-arj’te- noid ligament below ; to the epiglottis in front; and to the upper bor- der of the thyroid cartilage above. If examined from the exterior of the larynx, it will be seen to be covered bj^ the thyro-epiglottideus muscle. On the surface of its mucous membrane are the openings of sixty or seventy small follicular glands, which are situated in the sub- mucous tissue, and give to its external surface a rough and ill-dissected appearance. The secretion from these glands is intended for the lubri- cation of the chordae vocales, and is directed upon them by two small valvular folds of mucous membrane, which are situated at the entrance of the sacculus. * This sac was described by Mr. Hilton before he was aware that it had already been pointed out by the older anatomists. I myself made a dissection, which I still possess, of the same sac in an enlarged state, during the month of August, 1837, without any knowledge either of Mr. Hilton’s labours or Mor- gagni’s account. The sac projected considerably above the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and the extremity had been snipped off on one side in the removal of the muscles. The larynx was presented to me by Dr. George Moore of Camberwell; he had obtained it from a child who died of bronchial disease ; and he conceived that this peculiar disposition of the mucous membrane might possibly explain some of the symptoms by which the case was accompanied. Cruveilhier made the same observation in equal ignorance of Alorgagni’s de- scription, for we read in a note at page 677, vol. ii. of his Anatomic Lescriptin, —“ J’ai vu pour la premiere fois cette arrifere cavity chez un individu affecte de phthisie laryngee, oh elle etait tres-d6veloppee. Je fis des recherches sur le larynx d’autres individus, et je trouvai que cette disposition dtait constants. Je ne savais pas alors que Morgagni avait indiqud et fait representer la mgme dis- position.” Cruveilheir compares its form very aptly to a “ Phrygian castjac^' and Morgagni’s figure, Advers. 1. Epist. Anat. 3. plato 2. fig. 4, has the s.ame appearance. But neither of these anatomists notice the follicular glands de- scribed by Mr. Hilton.