172 NASAL GROUP. with the broad tarsal ligament and with the tarsal cartilages. This fascia the author tei’ms, the tunica vaginalis oculi* it is pierced ante- riorly for the passage of the six orbital muscles, by six openings through which the tendons of the muscles play as through pulle;ys. The use assigned to it by Mr. Ferrall is to protect the eyeball from the pressure of its muscles during their action. By means of this structure the recti muscles are enabled to impress a rotatory movement upon the ej'eball; and in animals provided with a retractor muscle, they also serve as antagonists to its action. Actions.—The levator palpebrae raises the upper eyelid. The four recti, acting singly, pull the eyeball in the four directions; upwards, downwards, inwards, and outwards. Acting by pairs, they carry the eyeball in the diagonal of these directions, viz. upwards and inwards, upwards and outwards, downwards and inwards, or do^vnwards and outwards. Acting all together, they directly retract the globe within the orbit. The superior oblique muscle, acting alone, rolls the globe inwards and forwards, and carries the pupil outwards and downwards to the lower and outer angle of the orbit. The inferior oblique acting alone, rolls the globe outwards and backwards, and carries the pupU outwards and upwards to the upper and outer angle of the eye. Both muscles acting together, draw the eyeball forwards, and give the pupil that slight degree of eversion which enables it to admit the largest field of vision. 4. Nasal Group.—Pyramidalis nasi. Compressor nasi. Dilatator naris. The Pyramidalis Nasi is a small pyramidal slip of muscular fibres sent downwards upon the bridge of the nose by the occipito- frontalis. It is inserted into the tendinous expansion of the compres- sores nasi. Relations.—By its upper surface with the integument; by its under surface with the periosteum of the frontal and nasal bone. Its outer border corresponds with the edge of the orbicularis palpebrarum, and its mner border with its fellow, from which it is separated by a slight interval. The Compressor Nasi is a thin and triangular muscle ; it arises by its apex from the canine fossa of the superior maxillary bone, and spreads out upon the side of the nose into a thin tendinous expansion, which is continuous across its ridge with the muscle of the opposite side. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the levator labii supe- rioris proprius, the levator labii super!oris alaeque nasi, and the inte- gument; by its deep surface with the superior maxillary and nasal bone, and with the alar and lateral cartilages of the nose. • This fascia was first described by Mr. Dalrymple in his work on the “ Ana- tomy of the Human Eye.” 1834.