563 PERITONEUM. membrane is extremely simple. But in the abdomen, where there are a number of viscera, the serous membrane passes from one to tlie other until it has invested the whole, before it is reflected on the parietes. Hence its reflexions are a little more complicated. In tracing the reflexions of the peritoneum in the middle line, Ave commence with the diaphragm, which is lined by two layers, one from the parietes in front, anterior, and one from the parietes behind, posterior. These two layers of the same membrane, at the posterior part of the diaphragm, descend to the upper surface of the liver, forming the coronary and lateral ligaments of the liver. They then surround the liver, one going in front, the other behind that viscus, and, meeting at its imder siuface, pass to the stomach, forming the lesser omentum. They then, in the same manner, surround the stomach, and, meeting at its lower border, descend for some distance in front of the intestines, and return to the transverse colon, forming the great omentum; they then siwround the transverse colon, and pass directly backwards to the vertebral column, forming the transverse meso-colon. Here the tAvo layers separate; the posterior ascends in front of the pancreas and aorta, and returns to the posterior part of the diaphragm, Avhere it becomes the posterior layer with which Ave commenced. The anterior descends, invests all the small intestines, and returning to the vertebral column, forms the mesentery. It then descends into the pelvis in front of the rectum, Avhich it holds in its place by means of a fold called meso-rectum, forms a pouch, the recto- vesical fold, between the rectum and bladder, ascends upon the poste- rior surface of the bladder, forming its false ligaments, and returns upon the anterior parietes of the abdomen to the diaphragm, Avhence we first traced it. In the female, after descending into the pelvis in front of the rectum, it is reflected upon the posterior surface of the vagina and uterus. It then descends on the anterior surface of the utenis, and ■ forms at either side the broad ligaments of that organ. From the uterus it ascends upon the posterior surface of the bladder and ante- ■ rior parietes of the abdomen, and is continued, as in the male, to the diaphragm. In this way the continuity of the peritoneum, as a whole, is dis- ; tinctly shewn, and it matters not where the examination commence or where it terminate, still the same continuity of surface Avill be discernible throughout. If Ave trace it from side to side of the ab- . domen, we may commence at the umbilicus ; we then folloAv it out- ’wards, lining the inner side of the parietes to the ascending colon ; ; it surrounds that intestine ; it then surrounds the small intestine, and, returning on itself, forms the mesentery. It then invests the descending colon, and reaches the parietes on the opposite side of the ; abdomen, whence it may be traced to the exact point from which we ' started.