GALL-BLADDER. 593 Thus, if there be any impediment to the free circulation of the venous blood through the heart or lungs, the circulation in the hepatic veins will be retarded, and the sublobular and the intralobular veins n-ill become congested, giving rise to a more or less extensive redness in the centre of each of the lobules, while the marginal or non-con- . gested portion presents a distinct border of a yellowish white, yellow, or green colour, according to the quantity and quality of the bile it may contain. “This is ^pasidve congestion' of the liver, the usual ,:and natimil state of the organ after death);” and, as it commences wth the hepatic vein, it may be called the first stage of hepatic-venous congestion. But if the causes which produced this state of congestion continue, ' or be from the beginning of a more active kind, the congestion will extend through the lobular venous plexuses “ into those branches of the portal vein situated in the interlobular fissures, but not to those in the spaces, which being larger, and giving origin to those in the fis- sures, are the last to be congested.” In this second stage the liver : has a mottled appearance, the non-congested substance is arranged in •isolated, circular, and ramose patches, in the centres of which the • spaces and parts of the fissures are seen. This is an extended degree of hepatic-venous congestio?i; it is “ active congestion" of the liver, and very commonly attends disease of the heart and lungs. These are instances of partial congestion, but there is sometimes 'general congestion oi the organ. “In general congestion the whole liver is of a red colour, but the central portions of the lobules are . usually of a deeper hue than the marginal portions.” GALL-BLADDER. The Gall-bladder (fig. 138) is the reservoir of the bile ; it is a py- rriform sac, situated in a fossa on the under surface of the right lobe of : the liver, and extending from the right extremity of the transverse f. fissure to the free margin. It is divided into a body, fundus, and r neck ; the fimdus or broad extremity in the natural position of the i.fiver is placed dowTiwards, and frequently projects beyond the free irmargin of the liver, while the neck, small and constricted, is directed ; upwards. This sac is composed of three coats, serous, fibrous, and tamcous. The serous coat is partial, is derived from the peritoneum, rand covers that side only which is unattached to the liver. The ^middle or fibrous coat is a thin but strong fibrous layer, connected on v)ne side to the liver, and on the other to the peritoneum. The in- 'f'emal or mucous coat is but loosely attached to the fibrous layer ; : t is everywhere raised into minute rugse, which give it a beautifully ■> .'eticulated appearance, and forms, at the neck of the sac, a spiral valve. It is continuous through the hepatic duct with the mucous • nembrane lining all the ducts of the liver, and through the ductus ' :omraunis choledochus, with the mucous membrane of the alimentary .anal.