124 LIGAMENTS OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 4, Articulation of the Atlas with the Aocis.—The ligaments of this articulation stxefive in number,— Anterior atlo-axoid, Two capsular, Posterior atlo-axoid. Transverse. The anterior ligament consists of ligamentous fibres, which pass from the anterior tubercle and arch of the atlas to the base of the odontoid process and body of the axis, Avhere they are continuous with the commencement of the anterior common ligament. The posterior ligament is a thin and membranous layer, passing be- tween the posterior arch of the atlas and the laminae of the axis. The capsular ligaments surround the articular processes of the atlas and axis ; they are loose, to permit of the freedom of movement which subsists between these vertebrae. The ligamentous fibres are most Fig. 58.* numerous on the outer and anterior part of the articulation, and the synovial membrane usually communicates with the synovial cavity situated between the transverse ligament and the odontoid process. The transverse ligament is a strong ligamentous band, which arches across the area of the ring of the atlas from a rough tubercle upon the inner surface of one articular process to a similar tubercle on the other. It serves to retain the odontoid process of the axis, in connection with the anterior arch of the atlas. As it crosses the odontoid process, * A posterior view of the ligaments connecting the atlas, the axis, and the occipital bone. The posterior part of the occipital bone has been sawn away, and the arches of the atlas and axis removed. 1. The superior part of the occi- . \ pito-axoid ligament, which has been cut away in order to shew the ligaments ^ beneath. 2. The transverse ligament of the atlas. 3, 4. The ascending and descending slips of the transverse ligament, which have obtained for it the title of cruciform ligament. 5. One of the odontoid ligaments ; the fellow ligament is seen on the opposite side. 6. One of the occipito-atloid capsular ligaments. ^4 7. One of the atlo-axoid capsular ligaments. 'a