INFERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. 51 lower jaw, which gives attachment by its inner margin to the stylo- maxillarj' ligament. The upper extremity of the ramus presents two processes, separated by a concave sweep, the sigmoid notch. The anterior is the coronoid process; it is sharp and pointed, and gives attach- ment by its inner surface to the temporal muscle. The anterior border of the coro- noid process is grooved at its lower part for the buc- cinator muscle. The poste- rior process is the condyle of the lower jaw, which is flattened from before back- wards, oblique in direction, and smooth upon its upper surface, to articulate with the glenoid cavity of the temporal bone. The con- striction around the base of the condyle is its neck, into which is inserted the external pterygoid muscle. The sigmoid notch is crossed by the masseteric artery and nerve. The internal surface of the ramus is marked near its centre by a large oblique foramen, the inferior dental, for the entrance of the inferior dental artery and nerve into the dental canal. Bounding this opening is a sharp margin, to which is attached the internal lateral ligament, and passing downwards from the opening a narrow groove which lodges the mylo-hyoidean nerve with a small artery and vein. To the uneven surface above, and in front of the inferior dental fora- men, is attached the temporal muscle, and to that below it the internal pterj-goid. The internal surface of the neck of the condyle gives at- tachment to the external pterygoid muscle; and the angle to the stylo-maxillary ligament. Development.—By two centres: one for each lateral half, the two ■ sides meeting at the symphysis, where they become united. The lower jaw is the earliest of the bones of the skeleton to exhibit ossifi- cation, with the exception of the clavicle; ossific union of the sym- physis takes place during the first year. • The lower jaw. 1. The body. 2. The ramus. 3. Tlie sjuuphysis. 4. The fossa for the depressor labii inferioris muscle. 6. Tlie mental foramen. G. The external oblique ridge. 7. The groove for the facial artery; the situation of the s groove is marked by a notch in the bone a little in front of the number. 8. The wangle. 9. The extremity of the mylo-hyoidean ridge. 10. The coronoid process. : 11. The condyle. 12. The sigmoid notch. 13. The inferior dental foramen. '.14. The mylo-hyoidean groove. 16. The alveolar process, i. The middle and lateral incisor tooth of one side. c. The canine tooth, b. The two bicuspidos. )». The three molares.