603 URINARY BLADDER. abdomen by the umbilical ligaments and urachus. The miiscular coat j consists of two layers, an external layer composed of longitudinal | tibres, the detrusor urime ; and an internal layer of oblique and trans- | verse fibres irregularly distributed. The anterior longitudinal fibres I commence by four tendons (the tendons of the bladder or of the de- trusor urime), two superior from the ossa pubis, and two inferior from the rami of the ischia, and spread out as they ascend upon the anterior surface of the bladder to its fundus; they then converge upon the pos- terior surface of the organ, and descend to its neck, where they are • A side view of the viscera of the male pelvis, in situ. The right side of tlie pelvis has been removed by a vertical section made through the os pubis near the symphisis; and another through the middle of the sacrum. 1. The divided surface of the os pubis. 2. The divided surface of the sacrum. 3. The body of the bladder. 4. Its fundus; from the apex is seen passing upwards the urachus. •5. The base of the bladder. 6. The ureter. 7. The neck of the bladder. 8, 8. The pelvic fascia; the fibres immediately above 7 are given off from the pelvic fascia, and represent the anterior ligaments of the bladder. 9. The prostate gland. 10. The membranous portion of the urethra, between the two layers of the deep perineal fascia. 11. The deep perineal fascia formed of two layers. 12. One of Cowper’s glands between the two layers of deep perineal fascia, and beneath the membranous portion of the urethra. 13. The bulb of the corpus spongiosum. 14. The body of the corpus spongiosum. 16. The right crus penis. 16. The upper part of the first portion of the rectum. 17. The recto-vesical fold of peritoneum. 18. The second portion of the rectum. 19. The right vesi- cula seminalis. 20. The vas deferens. 21. The rectum covered by the de- scending layer of the pelvic fascia, just ag it is making its bend backwards to constitute the third portion. 22. A part of the levator ani muscle investing the lower part of the rectum. 23. The external sphincter ani. 24. Tlie interval between the deep and superficial perineal fascia: they are seen to be continuous beneath the number.