50G LENS.—CANAL OF I'ETIT. narrow space, less thtin half aiine in depth,* bounded by the posterior surface of the iris and pupil in front, and by the ciliarj' processes, zonula ciliaris, and lens behind. The two chambers are lined by a thin layer, the secreting membrane of the aejueous humour. The Vitreous humour forms the principal bulk of the globe of the eye. It is an albuminous and highly transparent fluid, enclosed in a delicate membrane, the hyaloid. From the inner surface of this mem- brane, numerous thin lamellae are directed inwards, and form compart- ments in which the fluid is contained. According to Hannover, these lamellae have a radiated arrangement, like those on the transverse sec- tion of an orange, and are about 180 in number. In the centre of the viti’eous humour is a tubular canal, through which a minute artery is conducted from the arteria centralis retinae to the capsule of the lens. This vessel is injected without difficulty in the foetus. The Crystallirui humour or lens is situated immediately behind the pupil, and is surrounded by the ciliary processes, which slightly over- lap its margin. It is more convex on the posterior than on the anterior surface, and is embedded in the anterior part of the vitreous humour, from which it is separated by the hyaloid membrane. It is invested by a peculiarly transparent and elastic membrane, the capsule j of the lens, which contains a small quantity of fluid, called liepior : Morgagni,^ and is retained in its place by the attachment of the zonula ciliaris. Dr. Jacob is of opinion that the lens is connected to its capsule by means of areolar tissue, and that the liquor Morgagni is the result of a cadaveric change. The lens consists of concentric layers, of which the external are ! soft, the next firmer, and the central form a hardened nucleus. These ; layers are best demonstrated by boiling, or by immersion in alcohol, ; when they separate easily from each other. Another division of the lens takes place at the same time ; it splits into three triangular segments, which have the sharp edge directed towards the centre, and the base towards the circumference. The concentric lamellae are com- posed of minute parallel fibres, which are united with each other by means of scalloped borders, the convexity on the one border fitting accurately the concave scallop upon the other. Immediately around the circumference of the lens is a triangular canal, the canal of Petit,X a,bout a line and a half in breadth. It is bounded, in front, by the flutings of the zonula cUiaris ; behind, by the hyaloid membrane; and, within, by the border of the lens. The Vessels of the globe of the eye are the long and short, and * Winslow and Lieutaud thought the iris to be in contact with the lens ; it frequently adheres to the capsule of the latter in iritis. The depth of the pos- terior chamber is greater in old than in young persons. t John Baptist Morgagni was born in 1682. He was appointed Professor of Medicine in Bologna, and published the first part of his “Adversaria Anato- raica,” in 1706. He died in 1771. t John Louis Petit, a celebrated French surgeon: he published several sur- gical and anatomical Essays, in the early part of the 18th century. He died in 1750.