FIIIRES OF TilE BRAIN. 430 of fibres proceeds upwards to the corpora quadrigemina and thalami optici. The nervous filaments which spring from the groove on the anterior border of the corpus olivare,are those of the hypoglossal nerve; and those on its posterior border are the glosso-pharyngeal and pneu- mogastric. The Corpora restiformia (restis, a rope), comprehend the whole of the posterior half of each lateral column of the medulla oblongata. They are separated from the corpora olivaria by the grooves already spoken of; posteriorly they are divided from each other by the fissura longitudinalis posterior and by the fourth ventricle, and superiorly they diverge and curve backwards to enter the cerebellum, and constitute its inferior peduncles. Along the posterior border of each corpus res- tiforme, and marked oflf from that body by a groove, is a narrow white cord, separated from its fellow by the fissura longitudinalis posterior. This pair of narrow cords are termed the posterior median columns or fasciculi (funiculi graciles). Each fasciculus forms an enlargement (processus clavatus) at its upper end, and is then lost in the corre- sponding corpus restiforme. The processus clavati are the lateral boundaries of the nib of the calamus scriptorius. The corpus resti- forme is crossed near its entrance into the cerebellum, by the auditory nerve, the choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle, and the pneumogas- tric lobule. The remaining portion of the medulla oblongata visible from the exterior, are the two slightly convex columns which enter into the for- mation of the floor of the fourth ventricle. These columns are the funiculi teretes or posterior pyramids. Diverging fibres.—The fibres composing the columns of the me- dulla oblongata have a special arrangement on reaching the upper part of that body, those of the corpora pyrauiidalia and olivaria enter the pons Varolii, and are thence prolonged through the crura cerebri, tha- lami optici, and corpora striata to the cerebral hemispheres; hut those of the corpora restiformia are reflected backwards into the cerebellum and form its inferior peduncles. From pursuing this course, and spreading out as they advance, these fibres have been termed by Gall the diverging fibres. While situated within the pons the fibres of the corpus pyramidale and olivare separate and spread out, and have grey substance interposed between them; and they quit the pons much increased in number and bulk, so as to form the crus cerebri. The fibres of the crus cerebri again are separated in the thalamus opticus, and are intermingled wdth grey matter, and they also quit that body greatly increased in number and bulk. Precisely the same change takes place in the corpus stria- tum, and the fibres are now so extraordinarily multiplied as to be capable of forming a large proportion of the hemispheres. Observing this remarkable increase in the white fibres, apparently from the admixture of grey substance. Gall and Spurzheim considered the latter as the material of increase or formative substance to the white fibres, and they are borne out in this conclusion by several