ANTERIOR TIBIAE NERVE. 483 muscle, and divides into two branches, the anterior tibial and musculo- cutaneous. The Branches of the peroneal nerve previously to its division are, the coramunicans peronei, cutaneous, articular, and muscular. The com- municans peronei, much smaller than the communicans poplitei, crosses the external head of the gastrocnemius to the middle of the leg. It there sends a branch to join the commtmicans poplitei and constitute the external saphenous nerve, and descends, very much reduced in size, with the external saphenous vein to the side of the external ankle, to which and to the integument of the heel it distributes fila- ments. The cutaneous branch passes down the outer side of the leg, supplying the integument. The articular is a small branch distributed to the knee-joint. The muscular branches are twigs to the short head of the biceps, peroneus longus and tibialis anticus. The Anterior tibial nerve commences at the bifimcation of the peroneal upon the head of the fibula, and passes beneath the upper part of the extensor longus digitorum, to reach the outer side of the anterior tibial artery, just as that vessel has emerged through the open- ing in the interosseous membrane. It descends the anterior aspect of the leg with the artery; ljung at first to its outer side, then in front of it, and near the ankle becoming again placed to its outer side. Reaching the ankle it passes beneath the annular ligament; accompa- nies the dorsalis pedis artery, supplies the adjacent sides of the great and second toes, and communicates with the internal peroneal cutane- ous nerve. The Branches given off by the anterior tibial nerve are, muscular to the muscles in its course, and on the foot a tarsal branch which passes beneath the extensor brevis digitorum and distributes filaments to the interossei muscles and to the articulations of the tarsus and meta- tarsus. The Musculo-cutaneous nerve passes downwards in the direction of the fibula, in the substance of the peroneus longus; it then passes forwards to get between the peroneus longus and brevis, and at the lower third of the leg pierces the deep fascia, and divides into two . peroneal cutaneous branches. In its course it gives off several branches ! to the peronei muscles. The Peroneal cutaneous nerves pass in front of the ankle-joint, and ; are distributed to the integument of the foot and toes; the external : nerve supplying three toes and a half, and the internal, one and a half. They communicate with the saphenous and anterior tibial nerves. The f external saphenous nerve frequently supplies the fifth toe and the ad- jacent side of the fourth.