67 DEVELOPMENT OF TEETH. I form, and assume the shape of the teeth they are intended to repre- sent. And at the same time small membranous processes are de- veloped from the mouths of the follicles ; these processes are intended to sei^ve the purpose of opercula to the follicles, and they correspond in shape ■with the form of the crowns of the appertaining teeth. To the follicles of the incisor teeth there are two opercula; to the canine, tliree; and to the molars, a number relative to the number of their tubercles, either four or five. During the fourteenth and fifteenth weeks the opercula have completely closed the follicles, so as to convert them into dtntal sacs, and at the same time the papillae have become pulps. The deep portion of the primitive dental groove, viz. that which contains the dental sacs of the deciduous teeth, being thus closed in, the remaining portion, that which is nearer the surface of the gum, is still left open, and to this Mr. Goodsir has given the title of secondary dental groove, as it serves for the development of all the permanent teeth, with the exception of the anterior molars. During the four- teenth and fifteenth weeks small lunated inflections of the mucous membrane are formed, immediately to the inner side of the closing opercula of the deciduous dental follicles, commencing behind the incisors and proceeding onwards through the rest ; these are the rudiments of the follicles or cavities of reserve of the four permanent incisors, two permanent canines, and the four bicuspides. As the secondary dental groove gradually closes, these follicular inflections of the mucous membrane are converted into closed cavities of reserve, which recede from the surface of the gum, and lie immediately to the inner side, and in close contact with the dental sacs of the deciduous teeth, being enclosed in their submucous areolar tissue. At about the fifth month the anterior of these cavities of reserve dilate at their distal extremities, and a fold or papilla projects into their fundus, constituting the rudiment of the geim of the permanent tooth ; at the same time two small opercular folds are produced at their proximal or small extremities, and convert them into true dental sacs. During the fifth month the posterior part of the primitive dental . groove behind the sac of the last deciduous tooth has remained open, and in it has developed the papilla and follicle of the first permanent molar. Upon the closure of this follicle by its opercula, the secondary dental groove upon the summit of its crown forms a large cavity of ; reserve, lying in contact with the dental sac upon the one side and with the gum upon the superficial side. At this period the deciduous ' teeth, and the sacs of the ten anterior permanent teeth, increase so ! much in size, without a corresponding lengtliening of the jaws, that Uhe first permanent molars are gradually pressed backwards and : upwards into the maxillary tuberosity in the upper jaw, and into the i'base of the coronoid process of the lower jaw ; a position wliich they 'H)ccupy at the eighth and ninth months of foetal life. In the infant of ^ven or eight months, the jaws have grown in length, and the first i permanent molar returns to its proper position in the dental range. i