598 STRUCTURE OE TJIE KIDNEYS. tebral column, which hitter they approach by their upper extremities. • Each kidney is between four and five inches in length, about two inches and a half in breadth, somewhat more than one inch in thick- ness, and weighs between three and five ounces. The kidneys are usually enclosed in a quantity of fat; they rest on the diaphragm, on the anterior lamella of the transversalis muscle, which separates them from the quadratus lumborum, and on the psoas magnus. The ri(jhi kidney is somewhat lower than the left, from the position of the liver; it is in relation, by its anterior surface, with the liver and descending portion of the duodenum, which rest against it ; and is covered in by the ascending colon and by its flexure. The left kidney, higher than the right, is covered, in front, by the great end of the stomach, by the spleen, descending colon with its flexure, and by a portion of the small intestines. The anterior surface of the kidney is convex, while the posterior is flat ; the superior extremity is in relation with the supra- renal capsule ; the convex border is turned outwards towards the parietes of the abdomen ; the con- cave border looks inwards towards the vertebral column, and is exca- vated by a deep fissure, the hilus renalis, in which are situated the vessels and nerves and pelvis of the kidney; the renal vein being the most anterior, next the renal artery, and lastly the pelvis. The kidney is dense and fragile in texture, and is invested by a pro- per fibrous capsule, which is easily tom from its surface. When di- vided by a longitudinal incision, carried from the convex to the con- cave border, it is found to present in its interior two structures, an exter- nal or vascular (cortical), and an in- ternal or tubular (medullary) sub- stance. The tubular portion is form- ed of pale reddish-coloured conical masses, corresponding by their bases with the vascular structure, and by their apices with the hilus of the organ; these bodies are named cones (pyramids of Malpighi), and are from eight to fifteen in number. The vascular portion is composed * A section of the kidney, surmounted by the supra-renal capsule; the swell- ings on the surface mark the original constitution of the organ of distinct lobes. 1. The supra-renal capsule. 2. The vascular portion of the kidney. 3, 3. Its tubular portion, consisting of cones. 4, 4. Two of the papillae projecting into their corresponding calices. 5, 5, 5. The three infundibula; the middle 5 is situated in the mouth of a calyx. 6. The pelvis. 7. The ureter.