LIGAMENTS OF THE RIBS. 128 wards on the eminentia articularis, carrying with it the condyle. If this movement be carried too far, the superior synovial membrane is ruptured, and dislocation of the fibro-cartilage with its condyle into the zygomatic fossa occurs. In elevation the fibrous cartilage and con- dyle are returned to their original position. The forward and back- ward movement is a gliding of the fibro-cartilage upon the glenoid articular surface, in the antero-posterior direction ; and the movement from side to side, in the lateral direction. 6. Articulation of the Ribs with the Vertebra.—The ligaments of these articulations are so strong as to render dislocation impossible; the neck of the rib would break before displacement could occur; they are divisible into two groups :—1. Those connecting the head of the rib with the bodies of the vertebra ; and, 2. Those connecting the neck and tubercle of the nb with the transverse processes. They are 1st Group. Anterior costo-vertebral or stellate. Capsular, Interarticular ligament. Two synovial membranes. 2nd Group. Anterior costo-transverse. Middle costo-transverse, Posterior costo-transverse. The anterior costo-vertebral or stellate ligament (fig. 52) consists of three short bands of ligamentous fibres that radiate from the anterior part of the head of the rib. The superior band passes upwards, and is attached to the vertebra above ; the middle fasciculus is attached to the intervertebral substance; and the inferior, to the vertebra below. In the first, eleventh, and twelfth ribs, the three fasciculi are attached to the body of the corresponding vertebra. The capsular ligament is a thin layer of ligamentous fibres sur- rounding the joint in the interval left by the anterior ligament; it is thickest above and below the articulation, and protects the sjuiovial membranes. The interarticular ligament is a thin band which passes between the sharp crest on the head of the rib and the intervertebral substance. It divides the joint into two cavities, which are each furnished \vith a separate synovial membrane. The first, eleventh, and tivelfth ribs have no interarticular ligament, and consequently but one synovial mem- brane. The antefior costo-transverse ligament is a broad band composed of several fasciculi, which ascend from the crest-like ridge on the neck of the rib, to the transverse process immediately above. This ligament