91 OS PUBIS. :notch of large size, the great sacro-ischiatic, and below the spine, the tlesser sacro-ischiatic notch ; the foimer, being converted into a foramen ■ by the lesser sacro-ischiatic ligament, gives passage to the pyriformis rmuscle, the gluteal vessels and nerve, pudic vessels and nerve, and ischiatic vessels and nerves ; and the lesser, completed by the great > sacro-ischiatic ligament, to the obturator internus muscle, and to the ; internal pudic vessels and nerve. The mferior border is thick and h broad, and is called the tuberosity. The surface of the tuberosity is divided into three facets ; one anterior, which is rough for the origin ■ of the semi-membranosus ; and two posterior, which are smooth, and .'Separated by a slight ridge for the semi-tendinosus and biceps muscle. iThe inner margin of the tuberosit}' is bounded by a sharp ridge, ■ which gives attachment to a prolongation of the great sacro-ischiatic ligament, and the outer margin by a prominent ridge, from which the quadi'atus femoris muscle arises. The superior border of the ischium i is thin, and forms the lower circumference of the obturator foramen. "The ramus of the ischimn is continuous with the ramus of the pubes, sand is slightly everted. The os PUBIS is divided into a horizontal portion or body (hori- :zontal ramus of Albinus), and a descending portion or ramus ; it pre- ssents for examination an external and internal surface, a superior and iinferior border, and symphysis. The external surface is rough, for the attachment of muscles ; and f prominent at its outer extremity, where it forms part of the acetabu- ! lum. The internal surface is smooth, and enters into the formation of the cavnty of the pelvis. The superior border is marked by a r rough ridge, the crest; the inner termination of the crest is the angle ; ? and the outer end, the spim or tubercle. Running outwards from the ^ spine is a sharp ridge, the pectineal line, or linea ilio-pectinea, which I marks the brim of the true pelvis. In front of the pectineal line is a • smooth depression, which supports the femoral artery and vein, and a little more externally an elevated prominence, the ilio-pectineal ■eminence, which divides the surface for the femoral vessels from an- ' other depression which overhangs the acetabulum, and lodges the ; psoas and iliacus muscles. The ilio-pectineal eminence, moreover, imarks the junction of the pubes with the ilium. The inferior border : is broad, and deeply grooved, for the passage of the obturator vessels : and nerve, and sharp upon the side of the ramus, to form part of the I boundary of the obturator foramen. The symphysis is the inner ex- ttremity of the body of the bone ; it is oval and rough, for the attach- iment of a ligamentous structure analogous to the intervertebral sub- ^stance. The ramus of the pubes descends obliquely outwards, and is ccontinuous with the ramus of the ischium. The inner border of the r ramus forms with the corresponding bone the arch of the pubes, and -at its inferior part is considerably everted, to afford attachment to the tcrus penis. The acetabulum (cavitas cotyloidea) is a deep cup-shaped cavity, »situated at the point of union between the ilium, ischium, and pubes ;