173 SUPERIOR LABIAL GROUP. The Dilatator Naris is a thin and indistinct muscular apparatus expiuided upon the ala of the nostril, and consisting of an anterior and a posterior slip. The anterior slip (levator proprius alaa nasi anterior) extends between the lateral and the alar cartilage at about midway between the tip and the attached margin of the nose. The posterior slip (levator proprius alse nasi posterior) is attached above to the margin of the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, and below to the small cartilages of the ala nasi. These muscles are difficult of dissection, from the close adhesion of the integument to the nasal car- tilages. Actions.—The p}"ramidalis nasi, as a point of attachment of the occipito-frontalis, assists that muscle in its action : it also draws down the inner angle of the eyebrow, and by its insertion fixes the aponeu- rosis of the compressores nasi. The compressores nasi appear to act in expanding rather than in compressing the nares ; hence probably the compressed state of the nares from paralysis of these muscles in the last moments of life, or in compression of the brain. The use of the dilatator naris is expressed in its name. 5. Superior Labial Group.—Orbicularis oris. Levator labii superioris alaeque nasi. Levator labii superioris proprius. Levator anguli oris, Zygomaticus major, Zygomaticus minor. Depressor labii superioris alseque nasi. The Orbicularis Oris is a sphincter muscle, completely surround- ing the mouth, and possessing consequently neither origin nor inser- tion. It is composed of two thick semicircular planes of fibres, which embrace the rima of the mouth, and interlace at their extremities, where they are continuous with the fibres of the buccinator, and of the other muscles connected with the angle of the mouth. The upper segment is attached by means of a small muscular fasciculus (naso- labialis) to the columna of the nose ; and other fasciculi connected with both segments, and attached to the maxillary bones, are termed “ accessorii.” Relations.—By its superficial surface with the integument of the lips, with which it is closely connected. By its deep surface with the mucous membrane of the mouth, the labial glands and coronary arte- ries being interposed- By its circumference with the numerous mus- cles which move the lips, and by the inner border with the mucous membrane of the rima of the mouth. The Levator Labii Superioris ALiEQUE Nasi is a thin trian- gular muscle ; it arises from the upper part of the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone ; and, becoming broader as it descends, is in- serted by two distinct portions into the ala of the nose and upper lip. Relations.—By its superficial surface with a part of the orbicularis