RIGHT VENTRICLE. UO in the right auricle results from this arrangement. There is no fossa ovalis in the left auricle. ■The ruhcrculum Loweri* is the portion of auricle intervening be- tween the openings of the superior and inferior cava. Being thicker than the walls of the veins, it forms a projection, which was supposed by Lower to direct the blood from the superior cava into the auriculo- vcntricular opening. The Miisculi pectinati are small muscular columns situated in the appendix auriculm. They are numerous, and are arranged parallel with each other; hence their cognomen, '■'•pectinati^" like the teeth of a comb. The Right ventricle is triangular and prismoid in form. Its an- terior side is convex, and forms the larger proportion of the front of the heart. The posterior side, which is also inferior, is flat, and rests upon the diaphragm; the inner side corresponds with the partition be- tween the two ventricles, septum ventriculorum. The right ventricle is to be laid open by making an incision parallel with, and a little to the right of, the middle line, from the pulmonary artery in front, to the apex of the heart, and thence by the side of the middle line behind to the auriculo-ventricular opening. It contains, to be examined, two openings, the auriculo-ventricular and that of the pulmonary artery ; two apparatus of valves, the tricus- pid and semilunar; and a muscular and tendinous apparatus belonging to the tricuspid valves. They may be thus arranged;— Auriculo-ventricular opening, Opening of the pulmonary artery. Tricuspid valves. Semilunar valves. Chordae tendineae, Carneae columnae. The Auriculo-ventricular opening is surrounded by a fibrous ring, covered by the lining membrane of the heart. It is the opening of communication between the right auricle and ventricle. The Opening of the pulmonary artery is situated close to the septum ventriculorum, on the left side of the right ventricle, and upon the an- terior aspect of the heart. The Tricuspid valves are three triangular folds of the lining mem- brane, strengthened by a thin layer of fibrous tissue. They are con- nected by their base around the auriculo-ventricular opening ; and b}' their sides and apices, which are thickened, they give attachment to a number of slender tendinous cords, called chordae tendineae. The chordce tendineae are the tendons of the thick muscular columns (co- * Richard Lower, M. D. “ Tractatus de Corde; item de Motu et Colore Sanguinis,” 1669. His dissections were made upon quadrupeds, and his ob- servations relate rather to animals than to man.