146 HIP JOINT. surface of the bones. These fibrous bands are attached at each side to the lateral margins of the phalanges; they are thick in the inter- spaces of the joints, thin where the tendons lie upon the joints, and they are lined upon their inner surface by sjmovial membrane. The ligaments of the lower extremity, like those of the upper, may 1. Hip joint. 2. Knee joint. 3. Articidation between the tibia and fibula. 4. Ankle joint. 5. Articulation of the tarsal bones. 6. Tarso-metatarsal articulation. 7. Metatarso-phalangeal articulation. 8. Articulation of the phalanges. 1. Hip Joint.—The articulation of the head of the femur with the \ acetabulum constitutes an enarthrosis, or ball and socket joint. The articular surfaces are the cup-shaped cavity of the acetabulum and the rounded head of the femur ; the ligaments are in number, viz. • The capsular ligament (fig. 63, 8) is a strong ligamentous capside, embracing the acetabulum superiorly, and inferiorly the neck of the femur, and connecting the two bones firmly together. It is much thicker upon the upper part of the joint, where more resistance' is re- | quired, than upon the under part, and extends farther upon the neck 4 of the femur on the anterior and superior than on the posterior and * inferior side, being attached to the intertrochanteric line in front, to the base of the great trochanter above, and to the middle of the neck of the femur behind. The iliofemoral ligament (fig. 63, 9) is an accessor}' and radiating band, which descends obliquely from the anterior inferior spinous pro- cess of the ilium to the anterior intertrochanteric line, and strengthens the anterior portion of the capsular ligament. The ligamentum teres (fig. 64, 7), triangular in shape, is attached by a round apex to the depression just below the middle of the head of the femur, and by its base, which divides into two fasciculi, into the borders of the notch of the acetabulum. It is formed by a ■_ fasciculus of fibres, of variable size, surrounded by synovial membrane; sometimes the synovial membrane alone exists, or the ligament is H wholly ab^nt. V The cotyloid ligament (fig. 64, 6) is a prismoid cord of fibro-car- LIGAMENTS OP THE LOWER EXTREMITY. be arranged in the order of the joints to which they belong ; these are, the Capsular, Ilio-femoral, Teres, Cotyloid, Transverse.