578 STRUCTURE OF MUCOUS MEMHRANE. brane forms a circular or spiral fold which constitutes a part of the apparatus of the pyloric valve. In the lower half of the duodenum, the whole length of the jejunum, and the upper part of the ileum, it fonns valvular folds called valvulce conniventcs.^ which are several lines in breadth in the lower part of the duodenum and upper portion of the jejunum, and diminish gradually in size towards each extremity. These folds do not entirely surround the cylinder of the intestine, hut extend for about one-half or three-fourths of its circumference. In the lower half of the ileum the mucous lining is without folds; hence the thinness of the coats of this intestine as compared with the jejunum and duodenum. At the termination of the ileum in the caecum, the mucous membrane forms two folds, which are strength- | ened by the muscular coat, and project into the caecum. These are : the ileo-ccBcal valve (valvula Bauhini). In the caecum and colon the mucous membrane is raised into crescentic folds, which correspond with the sharp edges of the sacculi; and, in the rectum, it forms three valvular folds,* one of which is situated near the commencement of the intestine ; the second, extending from the side of the tube, is placed opposite the middle of the sacrum ; and the third, which is the largest and most constant, projects from the anterior wall of | the intestine opposite the base of the bladder. Besides these folds, : the membrane in the empty state of the intestine is thrown into longitudinal plaits, somewhat similar to those of the oesophagus; these have been named the columns of the rectum. The mucous membrane of the rectum is connected to the muscular coat by a very loose areolar tissue, as in the oesophagus. Structure of Mucous Membrane.—Mucous membrane is analogous to the cutaneous covering of the exterior of the body, and resembles that tissue very closely in its structure. It is composed of three layers, an epithelium, & proper mucous, and fibrous layer. The Epitheliumis the epiderma of the mucous membrane. Through- out the pharynx and oesophagus it resembles the epiderma, both in appearance and character. It is continuous with the epiderma of the skin at the margin of the lips, and terminates by an irregular border at the cardiac orifice of the stomach. At the opposite extremity of the canal it terminates by a scalloped border just within the verge of the anus. In the mouth it is composed of laminae of cytoblasts, cells, and polyhedral scales (fig. 168), Each cell and each scale possesses a central nucleus, and within the nucleus are one or more nucleus-cor- puscles. According to Mr. Nasmyth,+ the deepest lamina of the epithelium appears to consist of nuclei (cytoblasts) only; in the next the investing vesicle or cell is developed; the cells by degrees enlarge * Mr. Houston, “On the Mucous Membrane of the Rectum.” Dublin Hos- ! pital Reports, vol. v. t Investigations into the structure of the Epithelium, presented to the me- , dical section of the British Medical Association, in 1839, published in a work : entitled “ Three Memoirs on the Development of the teeth and epithelium,” 1841. i