630 THYROID GLAND, THYMUS GLAND. ORGANS OF SENSE. —The eyeballs are of large size and well developed at birth. The pupil is closed by a vascular membrane called the memhrana, pupillaris, which disappears at about the seventh month. Sometimes it remains permanently, and produces blindness. It consists of two thin membranous layers, between which the ciliary arteries are pro- longed from the edge of the iris, and form arches and loops by return- ing to it again, without anastomosing with those of the opposite side. The removal of the membrane takes place by the contraction of these arches and loops towards the edge of the pupil. The capsule of the lens is extremely vascular. Ear. — The ear is remarkable for its early development; the labyrinth and ossicula auditus are ossified at an early period, and the latter are completely formed before birth. The only parts remaining incomplete are the mastoid cells, and the meatus auditorius. The membrana tympani in the foetal head is very oblique, occupying almost the basilar surface of the skull; hence probably arises a deficient acuteness in the perception of sound. It is also extremely vascular. Nose.—The sense of smell is imperfect in tbe infant, as maj' be inferred from the small capacity of the nasal fossae, and the non-de- velopment of the ethmoid, sphenoid, frontal, and maxillary sinuses. THYROID GLAND. The Thyroid gland is of large size in the foetus, and is developed by two lateral halves, which approach and become connected at the middle line so as to constitute a single gland. It is doubtful whether it performs any special function in foetal hfe. THYMUS GLAND. The Thymus gland* cansiats “ of a thoracic and a cervical portion on each side. The former is situated in the anterior mediastinum, and the latter is placed in the neck just above the first bone of the '■ sternum, and behind the stemo-hyoidei and sterno-thyroidei muscles.” i It extends upwards from the fourth rib as high as the thyroid gland, » resting against the pericardium, and separated from the arch of the : aorta and great vessels by the thoracic fascia in the chest, and Ijdng on each side of the trachea in the neck. Although described usually as a single gland, it consists actually of * In the description of this gland I have adhered closely to the history of it given by Sir Astley Cooper, in his beautiful monograph “ On the Anatomy of tho Thjmus Gland;” 1832.