GLOSSOPHARYNGEAL NERVE. 451 The Cervico-facial divides into a number of branches wliich are dis- tributed to muscles on the lower half of the face and upper part of the neck. The cervical branches form a plexus with the superficialis colli nerve over the submaxillar}' gland, and are distributed to the platysma myoides. Auditory nerve (portio mollis).—The auditory nerve takes its origin in the linete transversae (striae medullares) of the anterior wall or floor of the fourth ventricle, and winds around the corpus restiforme, from which it receives fibres, to the posterior border of the crus cere- belli. It then passes forwards upon the crus cerebelli in company with the facial nerve, which lies in a groove on its superior surface, and enters the meatus auditorius internus, and at the bottom of the meatus it divides into two branches, cochlear and vestibular. The au- ditory nerv'e is soft and pulpy in texture, and receives in the meatus auditorius several filaments from the facial nerve. Eighth pair.—The eighth pair consists of three nerves, glosso- pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and spinal accessory ; these are the ninth, tenth, and eleventh pairs of Soemmering. Glosso-pharyngeal nerve.—The glosso-pharyngeal nerve arises by five or six filaments from the groove between the corpus olivare and restiforme, and escapes from the skull at the innermost extremity of the jugular foramen through a distinct opening in the dura mater, lying an- teriorly to the sheath of the pneumogastric and spinal accessory nerves, and internally to the jugular vein. It then passes forwards between the jugular vein and internal carotid artery, to the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, and descends along the inferior border of that muscle to tlie hyo-glossus, beneath which it curves to be distributed to the raucous membrane of the base of the tongue and fauces, to the mucous glands of the mouth, and to the tonsils. While situated in the jugular fossa, the nerve presents two gangliform swellings ; one superior (ganglion jugulare of Muller) of small size, and involving only the posterior fibres of the nerve; the other inferior., nearly half an inch below the preced- ing, of larger size, and occupying the whole diameter of the nerve, the ganglion of Andersch* (ganglion petrosum). The fibres of origin of this nerve may be traced through the fasciculi of the corpus restiforme to the grey substance in the floor of the fourth ventricle. The Branches of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve are— Communicating branches with the Facial, Pneumogastric, Spinal accessory, Tympanic, Sympathetic. Muscular, Pharyngeal, Lingual, Tonsillitic. • Charles Samuel Andersch. “Tractatus Anatomico-Physiologicus de Nervis corporis Human! Aliquibus, 1797.”