■207 SIXTH LAYER. wards and downwards, and at the same time rotating it inwards ; if the arm be fixed, the latissimus dorsi will draw the spine to that side, and, raising the lower ribs, be an inspiratory muscle; and if both arms be fixed, the two muscles will draw the whole trunk forwards, as in climbing or walking on crutches. The levator anguli scapulae lifts the upper angle of the scapula, and with it the entire shoulder, and the rhomboidei carry the scapula and shoulder upwards and backwards. In examining the following table, the student will observe the constant reciurrence of the number four in the origin and insertion of the muscles. Sometimes the four occurs at the top or bottom of a region of the spine, and frequently includes a part of two regions, and takes two from each, as in the case of the serrati. Again, he will perceive that the muscles of the upper half of the table take their origin firom spinous pr^fecesses, and pass outwards to transverse, whereas the lower half arise mostly from transverse processes. To the student, then, we commit these reflections, and leave it to the peculiar tenor of his own mind to make such arrangements as will be best retained by his memory. The serrati are respiratory muscles acting in opposition to each other, the serratus posticus superior drawing the ribs upwards, and thereby expanding the chest ; and the inferior drawing the lower ribs dowmwards and diminishing the cavity of the chest. The former is an inspiratorj^, the latter an expiratory muscle. The splenii muscles of one side draw the vertebral column backwards and to one side, and rotate the head towards the corresponding shoulder. The muscles of opposite sides, acting together, will draw the head directly backwards. They are the natural antagonists of the sterno-mastoid muscles. The sacro-lumhalis with its accessory muscle, the longissinius dorsi, and the spinalis dorsi, are known by the general term of erectores spince, which sufficiently expresses their action. They keep the spine sup- ported in the vertical position by their broad origin from below, and by means of their insertion, by distinct tendons, into the ribs and spinous processes. Being made up of a number of distinct fasciculi, which alternate in their actions, the spine is kept erect without fa- tigue, even when they have to counterbalance a corpulent abdominal development. The continuations upwards of these muscles into the neck preserve the steadiness and uprightness of that region. When the muscles of one side act alone, the neck is rotated upon its axis. The complexus, by being attached to the occipital bone, draws the head backwards, and counteracts the muscles on the anterior pm-t of the neck. It assists also in the rotation of the head. The semi-spinales and muUifidus spince muscles act directly on the vertebrae, and contribute to the general action of supporting the verte- bral column erect. The four little muscles situated between the occiput and the first two vertebrae, effect the various movements between these bones; the recti . producing the antero-posterior actions, and the obliqui the rotatory 1 motions of the atlas on the axis.