414 LATERAL VENTRICLES. centrum ovale majus, but nearer the anterior than the posterior part of the brain, and terminates anteriorly in a rounded border (genu), which may be traced downwards to the base of the brain in front of the com- missure of the optic nerves. Posteriorly it forms a thick rounded fold (splenium), which is continuous with the fornix. The length of the corpus callosum is about four inches. Beneath the posterior rounded border of the corpus callosum is the transverse fissure of the cerebrum, which extends between the hemi- spheres and crura cerebri from near the fissure of Sylvius on one side, to the same point on the opposite side of the brain. It is through this fissure that the pia mater communicates with the velum interpositum. And it was here that Bichat conceived the arachnoid to enter the ven- tricles ; hence it is also named the fissure of Bichat. Along the middle line of the corpus callosum is the raph6, a linear depression between two slightly elevated longitudinal bands (chordae longitudinales, Lancisii) ; and, on either side of the raphe, may be seen the linew trunsversce, which mark the direction of the fibres of which the corpus callosum is composed. These fibres may be traced into the hemispheres on either side, and they will be seen to be crossed at about an inch from the raphe by the longitudinal fibres of the covered band of Reil. Anteriorly and posteriorly the fibres of the corpus cal- losum curve into their corresponding lobes. If, now, a superficial incision be made through the corpus callosum on either side of the raphe, two irregular cavities will be opened, which extend from one extremity of the hemispheres to the other: these are the lateral ventricles. To expose them completelj', their upper boundary should be removed with the scissors. In making this dissection the thin and diaphanous membrane of the ventricles may frequently be seen. Lateral ventricles.—Each lateral ventricle is divided into a central cavity, and three smaller cavities called cornua. The anterior cornu curves forwards and outwards in the anterior lobe ; the middle cornu descends into the middle lobe; and the posterior cornu passes backwards in the posterior lobe, converging towards its fellow of the opposite side. The central cavity is triangular in form, being bounded above (roof) by the corpus callossum; internally by the septum luci- dum, which separates it from the opposite ventricle; and below (floor) by the following parts, taken in their order of position from before backwards:— Corpus striatum. Tenia semicircularis. Thalamus opticus. Choroid plexus. Corpus fimbriatum. Fornix. The Corpus striatum is named from the striated lines of white and grey matter which ai-e seen upon cutting into its substance. It is