408 DURA MATER. cesses are prolonged outwards to form sheaths for the nerves as they quit the skull and spinal column. Its external surface is rough and fibrous, and corresponds with the internal table of the skull. The in- ternal surface is smooth, and lined by the thin varnish-like lamella of the arachnoid membrane. The latter is a serous membrane.. Hence the dura mater becomes a fLro-serous membrane, being composed of its own proper fibrous structure, and the serous layer derived from the arachnoid. There are two other instances of fibro-serous membrane in the body, formed in the same way, namely, the pericardium and tunica albuginea of the testicle. On the external surface of the dura mater the branches of the middle meningeal artery may be seen ramifying; and in the middle line is a depressed groove, formed by the subsidence of the upper wall of the superior longitudinal sinus. If the sinus be opened along its course, it will be found to be a triangular channel, crossed at its lower angle by numerous white bands, called chordae Willisii"; granu- lar bodies are also occasionally seen in its interior, these are glandulae Pacchioni. The Glandules Pacchionis are small, round, whitish granulations, oc- curring singly or in clusters, and forming small groups of various size along the margin of the longitudinal fissure of the cerebrum, and more particularly near the summit of the latter. These bodies would seem to be of morbid origin ; they are absent in infancy, increase in numbers in adult life, and are abundant in the aged. They are generally asso- ciated with opacity of the arachnoid aroimd their bases, but in some instances are wanting even in the adult. They have their point of attachment in the pia mater, from which they seem to spring, carrying with them the arachnoid membrane, and then, in proportion to their size, producing various effects upon contiguous parts. For example, when small, they remain free or constitute a bond of adhesion between the visceral and parietal layer of the arachnoid; when of larger size they produce absorption of the dura mater, and as the degree of ab- sorption is greater or less, they protrude through that membrane, and form depressions on the inner surface of the cranium, or simply render the dura mater thin and cribriform. Sometimes they cause absorption of the wall of the longitudinal sinus, and projecting into its cavity, give rise to the granulations described in connection with that channel. If the student cut through one side of the dura mater, in the direc- tion of his incision through the skull, and turn it upwards towards the middle line, he will observe the smooth internal surface of this mem- brane. He will perceive also the large veins of the hemispheres filled * Willis lived in the seventeenth century; he was a great defender of the opinions of Harvey. t These bodies are incorrectly described as conglobate glands by Pacchioni, in an epistolatoiy dissertation, “De Glandulis conglobatis Duras Meninps indeque ortis Lymphaticis ad Piam Matrem productis,” published at Rome, in 1705.