ALIMENTARY CANAL. 567 The Meso-recium, in like manner, retains the rectum in connection with the front of tlie sacrum. Besides this, there are some minor folds in the pelvis, as the recto-vesical fold, the false ligaments of the bladder, and the bivad ligaments of the uterus. The Appendices epiploiccB ai'e small irregular pouches of the perito- neum, filled with fat, and situated like fringes upon the large intestine. Three other duplicatures of the peritoneum are situated in the sides of the abdomen ; they are, the gastro-phrenic ligament, the gastro-splenic omentum, the ascending and descending meso-colon. The gastro- phrenic ligament is a small duplicature of the peritoneum, which de- scends from the diaphragm to the extremity of the oesophagus, and lesser curve of the stomach. The gastro-splenic omentum is the dupli- cature which connects the spleen to the stomach. The ascending meso-colon is the fold which connects the upper part of the ascending colon with the posterior wall of the abdomen ; and the descending meso-colon, that which retains the sigmoid flexure in connection with the abdominal wall. Structure of Serous Membrane.—SeroUs membrane consists of two layers, an external or areolo-fibrous layer, and an internal layer or epithelium. The areolo-fibrous layer upon its outer surface is rough and vascular, and adherent to surrounding structures; but on its inner or free surface is dense and smooth, and deficient of vessels. The smooth and brilliant surface of serous membrane is due to a distinct epithelium, composed of laminae of cells, and flattened poly- hedral scales with central nuclei, like the epiderma and epithelium of mucous membrane. Henle has also observed this structure, which may be demonstrated with a good microscope, on the surface of all the serous membranes of the body, upon the surface of the lining mem- brane of arteries and veins, and on synovial membranes. The general characters of a serous membrane are its resemblance to a shut sac, and its secretion of a peculiar fluid, resembling the serum of the blood; but the former of these characters is not absolutely essential to the identity of a serous membrane; for, as we have shewn above, the peritoneum in the female is perforated by the extremities of the Fallopian tubes ; while in some aquatic reptiles there is a direct communication between its cavity and the medium in which they live. From the variable nature of the secretion of these membranes, they have been divided into two classes, the true serous membranes, viz. the arachnoid, pericardium, pleurae, peritoneum, and tunicae vaginales, which pour out a secretion containing but a small portion of albumen ; and the sjmovial membranes and bursae, which secrete a fluid contain- ing a larger quantity of albumen. ALIMENTARY CANAL. The Alimentary canal is a musculo-membranous tube, extending from the mouth to the anus. It is variously named in the different parts of its course; hence it is divided into, the