276 CHAPTER IV. ON THE FASCIA. Fascia (fascia, a bandage) is the name assigned to laminae of various extent and thickness, which are distributed through the dif- ferent regions of the body, for the purpose of investing or protecting the softer and more delicate organs. From a consideration of their structure, these fasciae may be arranged into two groups: areolo-fibrous fasciae, and aponeurotic fasciae. The areolo-fibrous fascia is best illustrated in the common subcuta- neous investment of the entire body, the superficial fascia. This structure is situated immediately beneath the integument over every part of the frame, and is the medium of connection between that layer and the deeper parts. It is composed of areolo-fibrous tissue contain- ing in its areolae an abundance of adipose cells. The fat being a bad conductor of caloric, serves to retain the warmth of the body ; while it forms at the same time a yielding tissue, through which the minute vessels and nerves pass to the papillary layer of the skin, without incurring the risk of obstruction from injury or pressure upon the sur- face. By dissection, the superficial fascia may be separated into two layers, between which are found the superficial or cutaneous vessels and nerves ; as the superficial epigastric artery, the saphenous veins, the radial and ulnar veins, the superficial lymphatic vessels, also the cutaneous muscles, as the platysma myoides, orbicularis palpebrarum, sphincter ani, &c. In other situations, the areolo-fibrous fascia is found condensed into a strong and inelastic membrane, as is exemplified in the deep fascia of the neck, the thoracic, transversalis, and perineal fasciae, and the sheaths of vessels. The aponeurotic fascia is the strongest kind of investing membrane; it is composed of tendinous fibres, running parallel with each other, and connected by other fibres of the same kind passing in different directions. When freshly exposed, it is brilliant and nacreous, and is tough, inelastic, and unyielding. In the limbs it forms the deep fascia, enclosing and forming distinct sheaths to all the muscles and tendons. It is thick upon the outer and least protected side of the limb, and thinner upon its inner side. It is firmly connected to the bones, and to the prominent points of each region, as to the pelvis, knee, and ankle, in the lower, and to the clavicle, scapula, elbow, and wrist, in the upper extremity. It assists the muscles in their action, by keep- ing up a tonic pressure on their surface; aids materially in the circula-