183 STERNO-IIYOIDEUS.—OMO-HYOIDEUS. deep fascia from off the front of the neck between the two sterno- mastoid muscles. The omo-hyoid to he seen in its whole extent re- quires that the stemo-mastoid muscle shoidd be divided from its origin and turned aside. The Stern’o-hyoideus, is a narrow riband-like muscle, arising from the posterior surface of the first bone of the sternum and from the inner extremity of the clavicle. It is inserted into the lower bor- der and posterior surface of the body of the os hyoides. The sterno- hyoidei are separated by a considerable interval at the root of the neck, but approach each other as they ascend ; they are frequently traversed by a tendinous intersection. Relations.—By its external stirface with the deep cervical fascia, the platysma myoides and stemo-mastoid muscle; by its internal surface with the stemo-thyroid, and thyro-hyoid muscle, and the superior thyroid artery. The Sterno-thyroideus, broader than the preceding beneath which it lies, arises from the posterior surface of the upper bone of the sternum, and from the cartilage of the first rib ; it is inserted into the oblique line on the great ala of the thyroid cartilage. The inner borders of these muscles lie in contact along the middle line; they are generally marked by a tendinous intersection at their lower part. Relations.—By its external surface with the sterno-hyoid, omo- h)'oid, and sterno-mastoid muscle; by its internal surface, with the trachea and inferior thyroid veins, with the thyroid gland, the lower part of the larj'nx, the sheath of the common carotid artery and inter- nal jugular vein, with the subclavian vein and vena innominata, and on the right side with the arteria innominata. The middle thyroid vein lies along its inner border. The Thyro-hyoideus is the continuation upwards of the stemo- thyroid muscle. It arises from the oblique line on the thyroid carti- lage, and is inserted into the lower border of the body and great cornu of the os hyoides. Relations.—By its external surface with the sterno-hyoid and omo- hyoid muscle; by its internal surface with the great ala of the thyroid cartilage, the thyro-hyoidean membrane, and the superior laryngeal artery and nerve. The Omohyoideus {Zgn, shoulder) is a - double-bellied muscle passing obliquely across the neck from the scapula to the os-hyoides ; it forms an obtuse angle behind the stemo-mastoid muscle, and is retained in that position by means of a process of the deep cervical fascia which is connected to the inner border of its tendon. It arises firom the upper border of the scapula, and from the transverse liga- ment of the supra-scapular notch, and is inserted into the lower border of the body of the os-hyoides. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the trapezius, the sub- clavius and clavicle, the deep cervical fascia and platysma myoides, the stemo-mastoid, and the integument. By its deep surface with the