418 FORNIX, fornix and corpus callosum, deriving from Ihe latter its medullarj’ layer. The Pes accessorius is a swelling somewhat resembling the hippo- campus major, but smaller in size; it is situated on the outer wall of the cornu, and is frequently absent. The Corpus firrUmatum (tenia hippocampi) is the narrow white band which is prolonged from the central cavity of the ventricle, and is attached along the inner border of the hippocampus major. It is lost inferiorly on the hippocampus. Fascia dentata:—if the corpus finibriatum he carefully raised, a nar- row serrated band of grey substance, the margin of the grey substance of the middle lobe, will be seen beneath it; this is the fascia dentata. Beneath the corpus fimbriatum will be likewise seen the transTerse fissure of the brain, which has been before described as extending from near the fissure of Sylvius on one side, across to the same point on the opposite side of the brain. It is through this fissure that the pia mater communicates with the choroid plexus, and the latter obtains its sup- ply of blqod. The fissure is bounded on one side by the corpus fim- briatum, and on the other by the under surface of the thalamus opticus. The internal boundary of the lateral ventricle is the septum lucidum. This septum is thin and semi-transparent, and consists of two laminae of cerebral substance attached above to the under surface of the corpus callosum at its anterior part, and below to the fornix. Between the two layers is a narrow space, the fifth ventriele, which is lined by a proper membrane. The fifth ventricle may be shown, by snipping through the septum lucidum transversely with the scissors. The corpus callosum should now be cut across towards its anterior extremity, and the two ends carefully dissected away. The anterior portion will be retained only by the septum lucidum, but the posterior will be foimd incoi’porated with the white layer beneath, which is the fornix. Fornix.—The fornix (arch) is a triangular lamina of white sub- stance, broad behind, and extending into each lateral ventricle: narrow in front, where it terminates in two crura, which arch downwards to the base of the brain. The two crura descend in a curved direction to the base of the brain, embedded in grey substance, in the lateral walls of the third ventricle, and lying directly behind the anterior commis- sure. At the base of the brain they make a sudden curve upon them- selves and constitute the corpora albicantia, from which they may be traced upwards to their origin in the thalami optici. Opening trans- versely beneath these two crura, just as they are about to arch down- wards, is the foramen of commmiication between the lateral and the third ventricles, the foramen of Monro; ox foramen commune anterius. The choroid plexuses communicate, and the veins of the corpora striata pass through this opening. The lateral thin edges of the fornix are continuous posteriorly with the concave border of the hippocampus major at each side, and form