STRUCTURE OF THE El’lDERMA. .52« they form longitudinal and parallel plications which extend for nearly the entire length of that organ. In structure each papilla is composed of a more or less convoluted capil- lary and a more or less convoluted nervous loop. The EpinERMA or cuticle (scarf- skin) is a product of the derma, which it serves to envelope and de- fend. That surface of the epider- ma which is exposed to the influ- ence of the atmosphere and exterior sources of injury is hard and homy in texture, while that which lies in contact with the papillary layer is soft and cellular. Hence the epiderma, like the derma, is divi- sible into two layers, external and internal, the latter being termed the rete mucosum. Moreover, the epiderma is laminated in stracture, and the laminae present a progres- sively increasing tenuity and density as they advance from the inner to the outer surface. This diiference of density is dependent on the mode of growth of the epiderma, for as the external surface is con- stantly subjected to destruction from attrition and chemical action, so the membrane is continually reproduced on its internal surface ; new layers being successively formed on the derma to take the place of the old. The theory of growth of the epiderma, deduced from the observa- tions of Schwann, is as follows ;—A stratum of plastic lymph (liquor sanguinis) is poured out upon the surface of the derma. This fluid, by virtue of the vital force inherent in itself, and communicated to it by contact with a living tissue, is converted into gramdes, which are * Anatomy of a portion of skin taken from the palm of the hand, 1. The papillary layer, in which the longitudinal furrows (2) marking the arrange- ment of the papiUas into ridges is shown. Each ridge is moreover divided by transverse furrows (3) into small quadrangular clumps. The quadrangular clumps consist of a tuft of minute conical papills, of which one or two are frequently longer and larger than the rest. In this figure the long papillae are alone seen, the rest being too numerous to introduce into a wood-engraving. 4. The rete mucosum raised from the papiUaiy layer and turned back; the under surface of this stratum presents an accurate impression of the papillary layer; on which are seen longitudinal ridges corresponding with the longi- tudinal furrows, transverse ridges corresponding with the transverse furrows and quadrangular depressions corresponding with the quadrangular clumps of papiUsB. Moreover, wherever one of the long papUlse exists, a distinct conical sheath will be found in the rete mucosum. 5, 5. Perspiratory ducts drawn out straight by the separation of the rete mucosum from the papillary layer; the point at which each perspiratory duct issues from the papillary layer, and pierces the rete mucosum, is the middle of the transverse furrow between the quadrangular masses.