575 C^CUM. the colon; in front, they are in relation with the omentum and abdo- minal parietes ; they are retained in their position by the mesentery, which connects them with the posterior wall of the abdomen; and below they descend into the cavity of the pelvis. At about the lower third of the ileum a pouch-like process or diverticulum of the intestine is occasionally seen. This is a vestige of embryonic structure, and is formed by the obliteration of the vitelline duct at a short distance from the cylinder of the intestine. LARGE INTESTINE. The large intestine, about five feet in length, is sacculated in appear- ance, and is divided into the ccBc^m, colon, and rectum. The CcBCum (emeus, blind) is the blind pouch, or cul-de-sac, at the commencement of the large intestine. It is situated in the right iliac fossa, and is retained in its place by the peritoneum which passes over its anterior surface ; its posterior surface is connected by loose areolar tissue mth the iliac fascia. Attach- ed to its extremity is the appendix vermiformis, a long worm-shaped : tube, the rudiment of the lengthened caecum foimd in all mammiferous animals except man and the higher quadrumana. The appendix varies in length from one to five or six inches ; it is about equal in diame- • ter to a goose-quill, and is connected with the posterior and left aspect of the caecum near the extremity of ■ the ileum. It is usually more or less coiled upon itself, and retained in that coil by a falciform duplica- ; ture of peritoneum. Its canal is ex- itremely small, and the orifice by • which it opens into the caeemn not ■ unfrequently provided with an in- I complete valve. Occasionally the i peritoneum invests the caecum so ccompletely as to constitute a meso- f caecum, which permits of an un- rusual degree of movement in this I portion of the intestine, and serves to explain the occurrence,of hernia of • The cfficum, showing its appendix, the entrance of the ileum, and the ileo- • csBcal valve. 1. The crecum. 2. The commencement of the colon. 3. The . Ueurn. 4. The aperture of entrance of the ileum into the csecum. 5, 5. The . ileocffical valve. 6. The aperture of the appendix vermiformis Cfeci. ’ 7*. The i appendix vermiformis. 8, 8. Sacculi of the colon, separated by valvular septa. ■ 9. The falciform frsenum of the appendix vermiformis.