69 TEETH.—ER OPTION. i. posed of two layers, an internal or vascular layer, which was originally a part of the mucous surface of the mouth, and an areolo-fibrous layer, analogous to the corium of the mucous membrane. Upon the forma- tion of this sac by the closure of the follicle, the mucous membrane resembles a serous membrane in being a shut sac, and may be con- sidered as consisting of a tunica propria, which invests the pulp ; and a tunica reflexa, which is adherent by its outer surface to the struc- tiu^s composing the jaw, and by the inner surface is free, being sepa- rated from the pulp by an intervening space. As soon as the moulding of the pulp has commenced, this space increases and becomes filled with a gelatinous granular substance, the enamel organ, which is adherent to the whole internal surface of the tunica reflexa, but not to the tunica propria and prflp. At the same period, viz. during the fourth or fifth month, a thin lamina of ivory is formed in the pulp, and occupies its most prominent point: if the tooth be incisor or canine, the newly formed layer has the figure of a small hollow cone ; if molar, there will be four or five small cones corresponding with the number of tubercles on its crown. These cones are imited by the formation of additional layers, the pulp becomes gradually sur- rounded and diminishes in size, evolving fresh layers during its re- treat into the jaws, until the entire tooth with its fangs is completed, and the small cavitas pulpse of the perfect tooth alone remains, com- municating through the opening in the apex of each fang with the dental vessels and nerves. The number of roots of a tooth appears to depend on the number of nervous filaments sent to each pulp. When the formation of the ivory has commenced, the enamel organ becomes transformed into a laminated tissue, corresponding with the direction of the fibres of the enamel, and the crystalline substance of the enamel is secreted into its meshes by the vascular lining of the sac. The cementum appears to be formed at a later period of life, either by a production of osseous substance by that portion of the dental sac which continues to enclose the fang, and acts as its periosteum, or by the conversion of that membrane itself into bone; the former supposi- tion is the more probable. The formation of ivory commences in the first permanent molar pre- viously to birth. Eruption.—When the crown of the tooth has been formed and coated with enamel, and the fang has grown to the bottom of its socket by the progressive lengthening of the pulp, the formation of ivory, and the adhesion of the ivory to the contiguous portion of the sac, the pressure of the socket causes the reflected portion of the sac and the edge of the tooth to approach, and the latter to pass through the gum. The sac has thereby resumed* its original follicular condition, and has become continuous with the mucous membrane of the mouth. The opened sac now begins to shorten more rapidly than the fang lengthens, • Mr. Nasmyth is of opinion that it is “by a process of absorption, and not of disruption, that the tooth is emancipated.” Medico-Chirurgical Transac- tions, 1839.