ANTERIOR TIBIAL REGION. 263 ratus femoris, adductor magnus, internal head of the gastrocnemius, the knee-joint from which it is separated by a synovial membrane, and the popliteal artery and vein. By its inner border with the gracilis. By its outer border with the great ischiatic nerve, and in the popliteal space, with the popliteal artery and vein. If the semi-niembranosus muscle be turned down from its origin, the student will bring into view the broad and radiated expanse of the adductor magnus, upon which the three flexor muscles above described rest. Actions.—These three hamstring muscles are the direct flexors of the leg upon the thigh ; and, by taking their origin from below, they balance the pelvis on the lower extremities. The biceps, from the obliquity of its direction, everts the leg when partly flexed, and the semi-tendinosus turns the leg inwards when in the same state of flexion. Anterior Tibial Region. Tibialis anticus, Extensor longus digitonmi, Peroneus ter tins, Extensor proprius pollicis. Dissection.—The dissection of the anterior tibial region is to be commenced by carrying an incision along the middle of the leg, mid- way between the tibia and the fibula, from tlie knee to the ankle, and bounding it inferiorly by a transverse incision extending from one malleolus to the other. And to expose the tendons on the dorsum of the foot, the longitudinal incision may be carried onwards to the outer side of the base of the great toe, and be terminated by another incision directed across the heads of the metatarsal bones. The Tibialis anticus muscle (flexor tarsi tibialis) arises from the upper two-thirds of the tibia, from the interosseous membrane, and from the deep fascia; its tendon passes through a distinct sheath in the annular ligament, and is inserted into the inner side of the in- ternal cuneiform bone, and base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the deep fascia, from which many of its superior fibres arise, and with the anterior annular liga- ment. B}’' its posterior surface with the interosseous membrane, tibia, ankle-joint, and bones of the tarsus with their articulations. By its internal surface with the tibia. By the eodemal surface with the e.xten- sor longus digitorum, extensor proprius pollicis, and the anterior tibial vessels and nerve. The Extensor longus digitorum arises from the head of the tibia, from the upper three-fourths of the fibula, from the interosseous membrane, and from the deep fascia. Below, it divides into four ten- dons, which pass beneath the annular ligament, to be inseiied into the second and third phalanges of the four lesser toes. The mode of in- sertion of the extensor tendons, both in the hand and in the foot, is