435 SPINAL CORD. The Pia mater is the immediate investment of the cord ; and, like the other membranes, is continuous with that of the brain. It is not, however, like the pia mater cerebri, a vascular membrane ; but is dense and fibrous in structure, and contains but few vessels. It invests the cord closely, and sends a duplicature into the fissura longitudinalis anterior, and another, extremely delicate, into the fissura longitudinalis posterior. It forms a sheath for each of the filaments of the nerves, and for the nerves themselves; and, inferiorly, at the conical termina- tion of the cord, is prolonged downwards as a slender ligament {filuni termmule), which descends through the centre of the cauda equina, and is attached to the dura mater lining the canal of the coccyx. This attachment is a rudiment of the original extension of the spinal cord into the canal of the sacrum and coccyx. The pia mater has, distributed to it, a number of nervous plexuses derived from the sym- pathetic. The Membrana dentata (ligamentum dentatum) is a thin process of pia mater sent oif from each side of the cord throughout its entire length, and separating the anterior from the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. The number of serrations on each side is about twenty, the first being situated on a level with the occipital foramen, and having the vertebral artery and hypoglossal nerve passing in front and the spinal accessory nerve behind it, and the last opposite the first or second lumbar vertebra. Below this point, the membrana dentata is lost in the filum temiinale of the pia mater. The use of this mem- brane is to maintain the position of the spinal cord in the midst of the fluid by which it is surrounded. The Spinal cord of the adult extends from the pons Varolii to op- posite the first or second lumbar vertebra, where it terminates in a rounded point; in the child, at birth, it reaches to the middle of the third lumbar vertebra, and in the embryo is prolonged as far as the coccyx. It presents a difference of diameter in different parts of its extent, and exhibits three enlargements. The uppermost of these is the medidla oblongata; the next corresponds with the origin of the nerves destined to the upper extremities ; and the lower eidargement is situated near its termination, and corresponds with the attach- ment of the nerves which are intended for the supply of the lower limb. In form, the spinal cord is a flattened cylinder, and presents on its anterior surfece a fissure, which extends into the cord to the depth of one-third of its diameter. This is the fissura longitudinalis anterior. If the sides of the fissure be gently separated, they will be seen to be connected at the bottom by a layer of medullary substance, the aiite- I: rior commissure. On the posterior surface another fissure exists, which is so narrow between the second cervical and second lumbar nerve, as to be hardly perceptible. This is the fissura longitudinalis posterior. It extends ■ more deeply into the cord than the anterior fissure, and terminates in . the grey substance of the interior. These two fissures divide the me-