279 ABDOMINAL FASCI/E. i FASCLE OF THE TRUNK. The thoracic /iucia"* is a dense layer of areolo-fibrous membrane stretched horizontally across the superior opening of the thorax. It is firmly attached to the concave margin of the first rib, and to the inner surface of the sternum. In front it leaves an opening for the connection of the cervical with the thoracic portion of the thymus gland, and behind it forms an arch across the vertebral column, to give passage to the oesophagus. At the point where the great vessels and trachea pass through the thoracic fascia, it divides into an ascending and descending layer. The ascendinff layer is attached to the trachea, and becomes continuous with the sheath of the carotid vessels, and with the deep cervical fascia ; the descending layer descends upon the trachea to its bifurca- tion, surrounds the large vessels arising from the arch of the aorta, and the upper part of the arch itself, and is continuous with the fibrous layer of the pericardium. It is connected also with the venae innomi- natae and superior cava, and is attached to the areolo-fibrous capsule of the thymus gland. “ The thoracic fascia,” writes Sir Astley Cooper, “ performs three important offices:— “ 1st. It forms the upper boundary of the chest, as the diaphragm does the lower. “ 2nd. It steadily preserves the relative situation of the parts which enter and quit the thoracic opening. “ 3rd. It attaches and supports the heart in its situation, through the medium of its connection with the aorta and large vessels which are placed at its curvature.” ABDOMINAL FASCIiE. The lower part of the parietes of the abdomen, and the cavity of the pelvis, are strengthened by a layer of fascia which lines their internal surface, and at the bottom of the latter cavity is reflected inwards to the sides of the bladder. This fascia is continuous throughout the whole of the above-mentioned surface; but for convenience of descrip- tion is considered under the several names of transversalis fascia, iliac fascia, and pelvic fascia; the two former meet at the crest of the ilium and Poupart’s ligament, and the latter is confined to the cavity of the true pelvis. The fascia transversalis (Fascia Cooperi)t is an areolo-fibrous lamella which lines the inner surface of the transversalis muscle. It is thick and dense below, near the lower part of the abdomen ; but becomes thinner as it ascends, and is gradually lost in the subserous areolar • For an excellent description of this fascia, see Sir Astley Cooper’s work on the “ Anatomy of the Thymus Gland.” t Sir Astley Cooper first described this fascia in its important relation to inguinal hernia.