411 PIA MATER. bri, and the latter and the posterior across the cerebellum in the course of the vermifonn processes. They communicate also with a still larger space fonned by the loose disposition of the arachnoid around the spinal cord, the spinal sub-arachnoidcan space. The whole of these spaces, with the lesser spaces between the convolutions of the hemi- spheres, constitute one large and continuous cavity which is filled with a limpid, serous secretion, the sub-aracimoideanfluid* a fluid which is necessary to the maintenance and protection of the cerebro-spinal mass. The quantity of the siib-arachnoidean fluid is determined by the re- lative size of the cerebro-spinal axis and that of the containing cavity, and is consequently verj”^ variable. It is smaller in youth than in old age, and in the adult has been estimated at about two ounces. The visceral layer of the arachnoid is connected to the pia mater by a de- licate areolar tissue, which in the sub-arachnoidean spaces is loose and filamentous. The serous secretion of the true cavity of the arachnoid is- very small in quantity as compared with the sub-arachnoidean fluid. The arachnoid does not enter into the ventricles of the brain, as imagined by Bichat, but is reflected inwards upon the venae Galeni for a short distance only, and returns upon those vessels to the dura mater of the tentorium. It surrounds the nerves as they originate from the brain, and forms a sheath around them to their point of exit from the skull. It is then reflected back upon the inner surface of the dura mater. According to Mr. Rainey,+ vessels of considerable size, but few in number; and branches of cranial nerves are found in the arachnoid. He also describes, in this membrane, numberless plexuses and ganglia, which he considers to be analogous to those of the sympathetic nerve. The fibres proceeding from this source are distributed on the arteries and nerves of the cerebro-spinal axis, but particularly on the former. % Pia mater. The Pia maler is a vascular membrane composed of innumerable vessels held together by a thin layer of areolar tissue. It invests the ■ whole surface of the brain, dipping into the sulci between the convolu- •tions, and forming a fold in its interior called velum interpositum. It ; also forms folds in other situations, as in the third and fourth ven- rtricles, and in the longitudinal fissures of the spinal cord. This membrane differs very strikingly in its structure in different ; parts of the cerebro-spinal axis. Thus, on the surface of the cerebrum, : in contact with the soft grey matter of the brain, it is extremely vascu- • The presence of a serous fluid beneath the arachnoid has given rise to the [' ;onjecture that a sub-arachnoid serous membrane may exist in that situation. Much a supposition is quite unnecessary to explain the production of the secre- 1 .ion, since the pia mater is fully adequate to that function, t 3Iedico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. 29.