401 NERVOUS SYSTEJI. STRUCTURE. We see here a chain of resemblances corresponding with the pro- gressive development observed in the lower animals; the human brain is passing through the phases of improving development, which dis- tinguish the lowest from the lower creatures: and we are naturally led to the same conclusion with regard to the architecture of the human brain that we were led to establish as the principle of development in the inferior creatures, namely, that it is composed of primitive cords, primitive ganglia upon those cords, commissures to connect those ganglia, and developnmits from those ganglia. In the adult, the primitive lo7igitudinal cords have become cemented together, to form the spinal cord. But, at the upper extremity, they separate from each other under the name of crmu cerebri. The first pair of ganglia, developed from the primitive cords, have grown into the cerebellum ; the second pair (the optic lobes of animals) have become the corpora qmdrigemina of man. The third pair, the optic tkalami, and the fourth, the cotpora striata, are the basis of the hemi- spheres, which, the merest lamina in the fish, have become the largest portion of the brain in man. And the fifth pair (olfactory lobes), so Large in the lowest forms, have dwindled into the olfactory bulbs of man. The microscopic elements of the nervous system, are, white nerve- fibres, grey nerve-fibres, nerve-cells, and nerve-granules. 1. White nerve fibres are the chief constituent of the brain, the spinal cord, and the cerebro-spinal nerves, and they also enter into the composition of the sympathetic nerve. They present some variety of size in different parts of the nerv- ous system, measuring in the brain between 3^00 and ttstto in diameter, and in the cerebro- ■ spinal nerves between j and ,of an inch. As a general rule, • the white nerve-fibres are largest : in the nerves, smaller where they ■ enter the cerebro-spinal mass, and 5 smallest at their termination, cen- ttrally, in the grey substance of the ^ surface of the brain, and, periphe- rrally, in the tissues of the body. In structure, each white nerve-fibre Fig.lMi.* / pa. H ir Minute structure of nerve. 1. The mode of termination of white nerve- fSbres in loops; three of these loops are simple, the fourth is convoluted. The after is found in situations where an exalted degi'eo of sensation exists. 2. A white nerve-fibre from the brain, shewing the vaiicose appearance produced by .-raction or pressure. 3. A white nerve-fibre enlarged to shew its structure,— lamely, a tubular envelope, and a contained substance, neurine. 4. A nerve- •■ell, shewing its composition of a granular-looking capsule and granular con- sents. 5. Its nucleus containing a nucleolus. 6. A nerve-cell from which •everal processes are given off. It contains, like the preceding, a nucleolated lucleus. 7. Nerve granules. D D