588 STRUCTUllAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. Fig 185.* tlience named svhlobular. Tlie capsular surface includes the rest of the periphery of the lobule, and has received its designation from being en- closed in an areolar capsule derived from the capsule of Glisson. In the centre of each lobule is a small vein, the intralobular, which is formed by the convergence of six or eight minute venules from the rounded promi- nences of the periphery. The intralobular vein thus constituted takes its course through thecentre of the longitudinal axis of the lobule, pierces the middle of its base, and opens into the sublobular vein. The periphery of the lobule, with the exception of its base, which is always closely attached to a sublobular vein, is connected by means of its areolar capsule with the capsular surfaces of surrounding lobides. The in- ternal between the lobules is the interlobular fissure, and the angular interstices formed by the apposition of several lobules are the ivterldxur lar spaces. The lobules of the centre of the liver are angular, and somewhat smaller than those of the surface, from the greater compression to which they are submitted. The superficial lobules are incomplete, and give to the surface of the organ the appearance and all the advantages resulting from an examination of a transverse section. “ Each lobule is composed of a plexus of biliary ducts, of a venous plexus, formed by branches of the portal vein, of a branch (intralobular), of an hepatic vein, and of minute arteries ; nerves and absorbents, it is to be presumed, also enter into their formation, but cannot be traced into them.” “ Examined, with the microscope, a lobule is apparently composed of numerous minute bodies of a yellowish coloim and of various forms, connected with each other by vessels. These minute bodies are the acini of Malpighi.” “ If an uninjected lobule be ex- amined and contrasted with an injected lobule, it will be found that the acini of Malpighi in the former are identical with the injected lobular biliary plexus in the latter, and the blood-vessels in both will be easily distinguished from the ducts.”+ Glisson's capsule is the areolo-fibrous tissue which envelopes the he- patic artery, portal vein, and hepatic duct, during their passage through the right border of the lesser omentum, and which continues to sur- round them to their ultimate distribution in the substance of the lobules. It forms for each lobule a distinct capsule, which invests it on all sides * A longitudinal section of two lobules. 1. A superficial lobule, terminating abruptly, and resembling a section at its extremity. 2. A deep lobule, shewing the foliated appearance of its section. 3. The intfalobuiar vein, with its con- verging venules; the vein terminates in a sublobular vein. 4. The external, or capsular surface of the lobule. t The Anatomy and Physiology of the Liver, by Mr. Kieman, Phil. Trans. 1833, from which this and the other paragraphs within inverted commas, on the structure of the liver, are quoted,