559 BRONCHIAL TUBES. According to !Mr. Rainey," the bronchial tubes continue to dimi- nish in size until they atbiin a diameter of to of an inch, and arrive within of an inch of the surface of the lung. They then be- come changed in structure, and are continued onwards in the midst of air-cells, under the name of intercellular passages. Lastly, the inter- cellular passages, after several bifurcations, terminate, each by a cmcal extremity or air-cell. The intercellular passages are at first cylindrical like the bronchial tubes, but soon become ii-regular in shape from the great number of air-cells which open into them on all sides. The air-cells are small, irregular in shape, and, most frequently, four-sided cavities, separated by thin septa, and communicating freely with the intercellular passages, and sparingly Avith the bronchial tubes. The air-cells composing a lobule also communicate freely with each other. The bronchial tubes, after the cessation of the fibro-cartilaginous plates, are composed of fibrous membrane (constructed of longitudinal and circular fibres) and mucous membrane, the latter being invested by a ciliated columnar epithelium. At the termination of these tubes the mucous membrane and epithelium cease abruptly, and the fibrous membrane, very thin and transparent, is continued onwards through the intercellular passages and air-cells. The same change takes place in the structure of the parietes, where the air-cells open directly into the bronchial tubes. The capillaries of the lungs form plexuses which occupy the walls and septa of the air-cells and the walls of the intercellular passages, but are not continued into the bronchial tubes. The septa between the cells consist of a single layer of the capillary plexus enclosed in a fold of the fibrous lining membrane. The cells of the central parts of the lung are most vascidar, and at the same time smallest, while those of the periphery are less vascular and larger. The pigmentary matter of the lungs is contained in the air-cells, as Avell as in the areolo-fibrous tissue of the inter-lobular spaces and of the blood-vessels. The Pulmonary artery, conveying the dark and impure venous blood to the lungs, terminates in capillary vessels, which form a minute net- • work in the parietes of the intercellular passages and air-cells, and then converge to form the pulmonary veins, by which the arterial blood, ! purified in its passage through the capillaries, is returned to the left .•auricle of the heart. The Bronchial arteries, branches of the thoracic aorta, ramify on the r parietes of the bronchial tubes, Avhile the venous blood is returned by ; the bronchial veins to the vena azygos. The Lymphatics, commencing on the surface and in the substance of the lungs, terminate in the bronchial glands. These glands, very : numerous and often of large size, are placed at the roots of the lungs, (around the bronchi, and at the bifurcation of the trachea. In early life • they resemble lymphatic glands in other situations; but in old age, and Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xxviii.