383 VERTEBRAL AND SPINAL VEINS. It passes through the aortic opening in the diaphragm, and ascends along the right side of the vertebral column to the third dorsal verte- bra, where it arches forwards over the right bronchus, and terminates in the superior cava. It receives all the intercostal veins of the right side, the vena azygos minor, and the bronchial veins. The Vena azygos minor commences in the lumbar region, on the left side, by a communication with the lumbar or renal veins. It passes beneath the border of the diaphragm, and, ascending along the left side of the vertebral column, crosses the fifth or sixth dorsal ver- tebra to open into the vena azygos major. It receives the six or seven lower intercostal veins of the left side. The azygos veins have no valves. The Superior intercostal vein is the trunk formed by the union of the five or six upper intercostal veins of the left side. It communicates below with the vena azygos minor, and ascends to terminate in the left vena innominata. VERTEBRAL AND SPINAL VEINS. The numerous venous plexuses of the vertebral column and spinal cord may be arranged into three groups;— Dorsi-spinal, Meningo-rachidian, Medulli-spinal. The Dorsi-spinal veins form a plexus around the spinous, transverse and articular processes, and arches of the vertebrae. They receive the returning blood from the dorsal muscles and surrounding structures, and transmit it, in part to the meningo-rachidian, and in part to the vertebral, intercostal, lumbar, and sacral veins. The Meningo-rachidian veins are situated between the theca verte- bralis and the vertebrae. They communicate freely with each other by means of a complicated plexus. In front they form two longitudi- nal trunks, {longitiidinal spinal sinuses,) which extend the whole length of the column on each side of the posterior common ligament, and are joined on the body of each vertebra by transverse trunks, which pass beneath the ligament, and receive the large basi-vertebral veins from the interior of each vertebra. The meningo-rachidian veins commu- nicate superiorly through the anterior condyloid foramina with the in- ternal jugulars; in the neck they pour their blood into the vertebral veins; in the thorax, into the intercostals; and in the loins and pelvis into the lumbar and sacral veins, the communications being established ithrough the intervertebral foramina. The Medulli-spinal veins are situated between the pia mater and ; arachnoid ; they communicate freely with each other to form plexuses, land they send branches through the intervertebra Iforamina with each 'of the spinal nerves, to join the veins of the trunk.