o DEVELOPMENT OF BONE. constitute the permanent areolae and Haversian canals. With a high magnifying power, the delicate ossific fibres here alluded to are seen themselves to be composed of minute cells having an elliptical form and central nuclei. These cells attract into their interior the cal- careous salts of the blood, and their nuclei become developed, as I believe, into the future corpuscles of Purkinje. It is possible also that some of the cartilage cells become corpuscles of Purkinje in the fully developed bone. During the progress of the phenomena above described, the contents of the cells undergo certain changes. At first, their contents are transparent, then they become granular, and still later opaque, from the presence of amorphous matter mingled with nuclei, nucleoli, and the remains of secondary cells. In the latter state they also contain an abundance of minute oil-globules. These latter increase in size as the ossific changes advance, and in the newly formed osseous areolae they are very numerous and have attained the ordinary size of adipose cells. Cartilaginification is complete in the human embrjm at about the sixth week; and the first point of ossification is observed in the clavicle at about the seventh week. Ossification commences at the centre, and thence proceeds towards the surface ; in flat bones the osse- ous tissue radiates between two membranes from a central point to- wards the periphery, in short bones from a centre towards the circum- ference, and in long bones from a central portion, diapltysis, towards a secondary centre, epiphysis, situated at each extremity. Large pro- cesses, as the trochanters, are provided with a distinct centre of development, which is named apophysis. The growth of bone in length takes place at the extremity of the diaphysis, and in bulk by fresh deposition on the surface; while the medullary canal is formed and increased by absorption from within. The period of ossification is different in different bones; the order of succession may be thus arranged:— During the fifth week, ossification commences in the clavicle, lower jaw, and upper jaw. During the sixth week, in the femur, humerus, tibia, radius, and ulna. During the seventh and eighth weeks, in the fibula, frontal, occi- pital, sphenoid, ribs, parietal, temporal, nasal, vomer, palate, vertebne, first three pieces of sacrum, malar, metacarpus, metatarsus, third phalanges of the hands and feet, and ilium. During the third month, in the first and second phalanges of the hands and feet, lachrymal bone, and ischium. During the fifth month, in the mastoid portion of the temporal, ethmoid, inferior turbinated, sternum, os pubis, and last two pieces of sacrum. During the sixth month, in the body and odontoid process of the axis, and in the calcaneus. During the seventh month, in the astragalus.