501 CHOROID COAT. The Choroid* is a vascular membrane of a rich chocolate-brown colour upon its external surface, and of a deep black colour within. It is connected to the sclerotic, externally, by an extremely fine areolar tissue, and by nerves and vessels. Internally it is in simple contact with the third tunic of the eye, the retina. It is pierced posteriorly for the passage of the optic nerve, and is connected ante- riorly with the iris, ciliary processes, and with the line of junction of the cornea and sclerotic, by a dense white structure, the ciliary liga- merd, which surrounds the circumference of the iris like a ring. The choroid membrane is composed of three layers:—an external or venous layer, which consists principally of veins arranged in a pecu- liar manner: hence they have been named vence vorticosce. The mark- ing on the surface of the membrane produced by these veins resembles Fig. 159. t 3 3 * The word cTioroid has been very much abused in anatomical language; it was originally applied to the membrane of the fcetus called chorion from the Greek word x°p<-or, domicilium, that membrane being, as it were, the abode or receptacle of the foetus. Xopiov comes from to take or receive. Now it so happens that the chorion in the ovum is a vascular membrane of peculiar structure. Hence the term choroid, xopLov elSos, like the chorion, has been used indiscriminately to signify vascular structures, as in the choroid membrane of the eye, the choroid plexus, <fec., and we find Cruveilhier in his work on Anatomy, vol. iii, p. 463, saying in a note, “ Choro'ide est synonyme de vas- cnleuse.” t A dissection of the eyeball, showing its second tunic, and the mode of dis- tribution of the venae vorticosse of the choroid. After Arnold. 1. Part of the sclerotic coat. 2. The optic nerve. 3, 3. The choroid coat. 4. The ciliary ligament. 6. The iris. 6, 6. The venae vorticosae. 7, 7. The tranks of the venae vorticosae at the point where they have pierced the sclerotica. 8, 8. The posterior ciliary veins, which enter the eyeball in company with th6 posterior ciliary arteries, by piercing the sclerotic at 9. 10. One of the long ciliary nerves, accompanied by a long ciliary vein.