175 INFERIOR LABIAL GROUP. superioris alieque nasi lifts tlie upper lip with tlie ala of the nose, and expands the opening of the nares. The depressor labii superioris alaeque nasi is the antagonist to this muscle, drawing the upper lip and ala of the nose downwards, and contracting the opening of the nares. The levator labii superioris proprius is the proper elevator of the upper lip ; acting singly, it draws the lip a little to one side. The levator anguli oris lifts the angle of the mouth and draws it inwards, while the zygomatic! pull it upwards and outwards, as in laughing. 6. Inferior Labial Group.—Depressor labii inferioris, Depressor angidi oris, Levator labii inferioris. Dissection.—To dissect the inferior labial region, continue the vertical section from the margin of the lower lip to the point of the chin. Then carry an incision along the margin of the lower jaw to its angle. Dissect olf the integument and superficial fascia from the whole of this surface, and the muscles of the inferior labial region will be exposed. The Depressor labu inferioris (quadratus menti) arises from the oblique line by the side of the symphysis of the lower jaw, and passing upwards and inwards, is inserted into the orbicularis muscle and integument of the lower lip. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the platysma myoides, part of the depressor anguli oris, and with the integument of the chin with which it is closely connected. By the deep surface with the le- vator labii inferioris, the labial glands and mucous membrane of the lower lip, and with the mental nerve and artery. The Depressor anguli oris (triangularis oris) is a triangular plane of muscle aiising b}’' a broad base from the external oblique ridge of the lower jaw, and mserted by its apex into the angle of the mouth, where it is continuous with the levator anguli oris and zygo- maticus major. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the integument ; and by its deep surface with the depressor labii inferioris, the buccinator, and the branches of the mental nerve and artery. The Levator labii inferioris (levator menti) is a small conical slip of muscle arising from the incisive fossa of the lower jaw, and in- serted into the integument of the chin. It is in relation with the mu- cous membrane of the mouth, with its fellow, and with the depressor labii inferioris. Actions.—The depressor labii inferioris draws the lower lip directly downwards, and at the same time a little outwards. The depressor anguli oris, from the radiated direction of its fibres, will pull the angle of the mouth either downwards and inwards, or downwards and out- wards, and be expressive of grief; or acting with the levator anguli oris and zygomaticus major, it will draw the angle of the mouth directly backwards. The levator labii inferioris raises and protrudes the integument of the chin.