223 COMPRESSOR URETHRiE, ■wards, and embrace the membranous portion of the urethra and Cow- per’s glands. As they pass towards the lu-ethra, they spread out and become fan-shaped, and are inseiied into a tendinous raphe upon the upper and lower siu’faces of the urethra, extending from the apex of Fiff. 97.' • the prostate gland, to which they are attached posteriorly, to the bulbous portion of the urethra, with which they are connected in front. ' When seen from above, these portions resemble two fans, connected by their expanded border along the middle line of the membranous urethra, from the prostate to the bulbous portion of the urethra. The ' same appearance is obtained by viewing them from below. The perpendicular porlionf described by Mr. Wilson, arises by two ■ tendinous points from the inner surface of the arch of the pubes, on • each side of, and close to, the symphysis. The tendinous origins soon 1 become muscular, and descend perpendicularly, to be inserted into the • The muscles of the perineum. 1 The acceleratores uriiife muscles; the ^ figure rests upon the corpus spongiosum penis. 2. The corpus cavernosum of one side. 3. The erector penis of one side. 4. The transversus perinei of one ? side. 5. The triangular space through -which the deep perineal fascia is seen. 6. The sphincter ani; its anterior extremity is cut off. 7. The levator ani of ' the left side; the deep space between the tuberosity of the ischium (8) and the anus, is the ischio-rectal fossa; the same fossa is seen on the opposite side. 9. ■ The spine of the ischium. 10. The left coccygeus muscle. The boundaries of ; the perineum are well seen in this engraving. + Mr. Tyrrell who made many careful dissections of the muscles of the peri- r neum, did not observe this portion of the muscle; he considers 'Wilson’s muscle with some other anatomists) to be the anterior fibres of the levator ani, not j uniting beneath the urethra as described by Mr. Wilson; but inserted into a r portion of the pelvic fascia situated between the prostate gland and rectum, the • recto-vesical fascia.