331 BRANCHES OF THE THORACIC AORTA. The Commoti interosseous artery is a short trunk which arises from the ulnar, opposite the bicipital tuberosity of the radius. It divides into two branches, the anterior and posterior interosseous arteries. The Anterior interosseous passes down the fore-arm upon the inter- osseous membrane, between the flexor profundus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis, and behind the pronator quadratus. In the latter po- sition it pierces the interosseous membrane, and descends to the back of the wTist, where it inosculates with the posterior carpal branches of the radial and ulnar. It is retained in connection with the interos- seous membrane by means of a thin aponeurotic arch. The anterior interosseous artery sends a branch to the median nerve, which it accompanies into the hand. The median artery is sometimes of large size, and occasionally takes the place of the superficial palmar arch. The Posterior interosseous artery passes backwards through an opening between the upper part of the interosseous membrane and the oblique ligament, and is distributed to the muscles on the posterior .aspect of the fore-arm. It gives off a recurrent branch, which returns . upon the elbow between the anconeus, extensor carpi ulnaiis and ' supinator brevis muscles, and anastomoses with the posterior terminal ■ branches of the superior profunda. The Muscular branches supply the muscles situated along the ulnar border of the fore-arm. The Carped branches, anterior and posterior, are distributed to the anterior and posterior aspects of the wrist-joint, where they inosculate wth corresponding branches of the radial artery. The Digital branches are given off from the superficial palmar arch, and are four in number. The first and smallest is distributed to the ulnar side of the little finger. The other three are short trunks, which , divide between the heads of the metacarpal bones, and form the colla- teral branch of the radial side of the little finger, the collateral branches of the ring and middle fingers, and the collateral branch of the ulnar lb ' side of the index finger, ti Tlie Superjvcial palmar arch receives the termination of the deep ^palmar arch from between the abductor minimi digiti and flexor brevis minftni digiti near their origins, and terminates by inosculating with ::the superficialis volae upon the ball of the thumb. The communication f^-oetween the superficial and deep arch is generally described as the ■' 'ommunicating branch of the ulnar artery. The mode of distribution of the arteries to the hand is subject to I V requent variety. BRANCHES OF THE THORACIC AORTA. Bronchial, CEsophageal, Intercostal. The Bronchial arteries are four in number, and vary both in