319 POSTERIOR SCAPULAR ARTERY. ately after its origin into four branches, some of which are occasionally branches of the subclavian artery itself. The Inferior thyroid artery ascends obliquely in a serpentine course behind the sheath of the carotid vessels, to the inferior part of the thyroid gland, to which it is distributed ; it sends branches also to the trachea, lower part of the larynx, and oesophagus. It is in re- lation with the middle cerrical ganglion of the sympathetic, which lies in front of it. The Supra-scapular artery (transversalis humeri) passes ob- liquely outwards behind the clavicle, and over the ligament of the •supra-scapular notch, to the supra-spinatus fossa. It crosses in its course the scalenus anticus muscle, phrenic nerve, and subclavian artery, is distributed to the muscles on the dorsum of the scapula, and inosculates with the posterior scapular, and beneath the acromion pro- cess with the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery. At the supra- scapular notch it sends a large branch to the trapezius muscle. The supra-scapular artery is not unfirequently a branch of the subclavian. The Posterior scapular artery (transversalis colli) • passes transversely across the subclavian triangle at the root of the neck, to the superior angle of the scapula. It then descends along the posterior border of that bone to its inferior angle, where it inosculates with the subscapular arterj*^, a branch of the axillary. In its course across the neck it passes in front of the scalenus anticus, and across the brachial plex'us; in the rest of its course it is covered in by the trapezius, levator anguli scapulae, rhomboideus minor, and rhomboideus major muscles. Sometimes it passes behind the scalenus anticus, and between the nerves, which constitute the brachial plexus. This artery, which is verj^ irregular in its origin, proceeds more frequently from the third portion of the subclavian artery than from the first. The posterior scapular gives branches to the neck, and opposite the angle of the scapula inosculates with the profunda cervicis. It sup- plies the muscles along the posterior border of the scapula, and estab- ■ lishes an important anastomotic communication between the branches if the external carotid, subclavian, and axillary arteries. The SuperFiciALis cervicis artery (cervicalis anterior) is a : jmall vessel, which ascends upon the anterior tubercles of the trans- t verse processes of the cervical vertebrae, lying in the groove between rthe scalenus anticus and rectus anticus major. It is distributed to the i- leep muscles and glands of the neck, and sends branches through the ! ntervertebral foramina to supply the spinal cord and its membranes. The Profunda cervicis (cervicalis posterior) passes backwards letween the transverse processes of the seventh cerrical and first dor- mi vertebrae, and then ascends tlie back part of the neck, between the