469 MUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE, nies the iilnar arten*, the latter pierces the deep fascia and is distri- buted to the integument, communicating with the posterior branch of the internal cutaneous nerve. The Dorsal branch passes backwards beneath the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, at the lower third of the fore-arm, and divides into branches which supply the integument and two fingers and a half on the posterior aspect of the hand, communicating with the internal cutaneous and radial nerve. The Superficial palmar branch divides into three filaments, which are distributed, one to the ulnar side of the little finger, one to the adjoining borders of the little and ring fingers, and a communicating branch to join the median nerve. The Deep palmar branch passes between the abductor and flexor minimi digiti, to the deep palmar arch, supplying the muscles of the little finger, and the interossei and other deep structures in the palm of the hand. The Musculo-spiral nerve, the largest branch of the brachial plexus, arises from the posterior part of the plexus by a common trunk ■with the circumflex nerve. It passes downwards from its origin in front of the tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major muscle, and winds around the humerus in the spiral groove, accompanied by the superior profunda artery, to the space between the brachialis anticus and supinator longus, and thence onwards to the bend of the elbow, where it divides into two branches, the posterior interosseous and radial nerve. The Branches of the musculo-spiral nerve are,— Muscular, Spiral cutaneous. Radial, Posterior interosseous. The Muscular branches are distributed to the triceps, to the supina- tor longus, and to the extensor carpi radialis longior. The Spiral cutaneous nerve pierces the deep fascia immediately below the insertion of the deltoid muscle, and passes down the outer side of the fore-arm as far as the wrist. It is distributed to the in- tegument. The Radial nerve runs along the radial side of the fore-arm to the commencement of its lower third ; it then passes beneath the tendon of the supinator longus, and at about two inches above the wrist-joint pierces the deep fascia and divides into an external and an internal branch. The external branch, the smaller of the two, is distributed to the outer border of the hand and thumb, and communicates with the posterior branch of the external cutaneous nerve. The internal branch crosses the direction of the extensor tendons of the thumb and divides into several filaments for the supply of the ulnar border of the thumb.