37 SPHENOID BONE. * '1 ; of the crista sphenoidalis is an irregular opening leading into the i sphenoidal cells. The sphenoidal cells, which are absent in the young I subject, are divided by a median septum which is continuous with the j crista, and are partially closed by two thin plates of bone (frequently I broken away), the sphenoidal sponyy bones. On each side of the sphe- Fig 21.* I noidal cells are the- outlets of the optic foramina, sphenoidal fissures, 1 i and foramina rotunda, the lesser and greater wings ; and, below, the I pterj-goid processes. Upon the under surface of the body are two ' thin plates of bone (processus vayinales) proceeding from the base of the pterj'goid process at each side, and intended for articulation with I the borders of the vomer. On each of these plates, close to the root ^ of the pterygoid process, is a groove (sometimes a complete canal) con- ' verted into a canal by the palate bone, the pteryyo-palatine canal for the pterygo-palatine artery ; and traversing the roots of the pterygoid processes at their union with the body of the bone, are the two ptery- goid or Vidian canals, which give passage to the Vidian nerve and artery at each side. The posterior surface is flat and rough, and articulates with the basilar process of the occipital bone. In the adult this union is usually completed by bone ; from which circumstance the sphenoid, in con- junction with the occipital, is described by Soemmering and Meckel i-‘ IS a single bone, under the name of spheno-occipital. The posterior • The antero-inferior view of the sphenoid bone. 1. The ethmoid spine. ! 1. The ro.strum. 3. The sphenoidal spongy bone, partly closing the left open- ing of the sphenoidal cells. 4. The lesser wing. 6. The foramen opticum, ^ piercing the base of the lesser wing. 6. The sphenoidal fissure. 7. The fora- men rotundum. 8. The orbital surface of the greater wing. 9. Its temporal ' mrface. 10. The pterygoid ridge. 11. The pterygo-palatine canal. 12. The iforamen of entrance to the Vidian canal. 13. The internal pterygoid plate. ^14. The hamular process. 16. The external pterygoid plate. 16. The fora- smen spinosum. 17. The foramen ovale. 18. The extremity of the spinous fiprocess of the sphenoid.