533 SEBIPAROUS GLANDS. where it is surrounded by adipose cells. The central extremity of a hair is larger than its shaft, and is called the root or bulb. It is usually conical in its shape. The process of formation of a hair by its follicle is identical with that of the formation of the epiderma by the papillary layer of the derma. Plastic lymph is in the first instance exuded by the capillary plexus of the follicle, the lymph undergoes conversion, first into granules, then into cells, and the latter are elongated into fibres. The cells which are destined to form the surface of the hair go through a different process. They are converted into flat scales, which enclose the fibrous structure of the interior. These scales, as they are succes- sively produced, overlap those which precede and give rise to the prominent and waving lines which may be seen around the circumfer- ence of a hair. It is this overlapping line that is the cause of the roughness which we experience in drawing a hair, from its point to its bulb, between the fingers. The bulb is the newly formed portion of the hair: its expanded form is due to the greater bulk of the fresh cells compared with the fibres and scales into which they are subsequently converted in the shaft. The colour of the hair, like that of the epiderma, is due to the co- loration of the primitive granules of the cells. The Sebiparous glands are sacculated glandular organs embedded m the substance of the derma, and presenting every variety of com- plexity, fi-om the simplest pouch-like follicle to the sacculated and lo- bulated gland. In some situations, the excretory ducts of these glands open independently on the surface of the epiderma; while in others, and the most numerous, they terminate in the follicles of the hairs. The sebiparous glands associated with the hairs are racemiform and lobulat- ed in structure, consisting of sacculi which open by short pedunculated tubuli into a common excretory duct, and the latter, after a short course, terminates in the hair-follicle. In the scalp there are two of these glands to each hair-follicle. On the nose and face the glands are of large size, distinctly lobulated, and constantly associated with small hair-follicles. In the meatus auditorius the sebiparous (ceruminous) glands are also large and lobulated, but the largest are those of the eyelids, the Meibomian glands. The excretory ducts of sebiparous glands offer some diversity in different parts of the body; thus, in many situations they are short and straight, while in others, as in the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, where the epiderma is thick, they assume a spiral arrangement. The sebiferous ducts are lined by an inversion of the epiderma, which forms a thick and funnel-shaped cone at its commencement, but soon becomes uniform and soft. Sebiparous glands are met with in aU parts of the body, but are most abundant in the skin of the face, and in those situations which are natoally ex- posed to the influence of friction. The sebaceous substance when it collects in inordinate quantities within the excretory ducts becomes the habitat of a very remarkable parasitic animal, the steatozoon folliculorum.