! FIBULAR REGION. 269 flexor longus poUicis, flexor longus digitorura, posterior tibial vessels and nerve, peroneal vessels, and in the sole of the foot with the ab- ductor pollicis. By its deep surface with the interosseous membrane, the fibula and tibia, the ankle-joint and the astragalus. The anterior tibial arterj' passes between the two heads of the muscle. The student will observe that the two latter muscles change their relative position to each other in their course. Thus, in the leg, the position of the three muscles from within outwards, is, flexor longus digitorum, tibialis posticus, flexor longus pollicis. At the inner mal- leolus, the relation of the tendons is, tibialis posticus, flexor longus di- gitorum, both in the same sheath; then a broad groove, which lodges ' the posterior tibial artery, venae comites, and nerve; and lastly, the flexor longus pollicis. Actions.—The popliteus is a flexor of the tibia upon the thigh, carrying it at the same time inwards so as to invert the leg. The flexor longus pollicis, and flexor longus digitorum are the long flexors of the toes ; their tendons are connected in the foot by a short tendi- nous band, hence they necessarily act together. The tibialis posticus is an extensor of the tarsus upon the leg, and an antagonist to the ! tibialis anticus. It combines with the tibialis anticus in adduction of the foot. Fihular Region. ■ Peroneus longus. Peroneus brevis. ! Dissection.—These muscles are exposed by continuing the dissection I of the anterior tibial region outwards beyond the fibula, to the border ! of the posterior tibial region. ) The Peroneus longus fibula, extensor tarsi fibidaris lon- I gior) muscle arises from the head and upper third of the outer side of i the fibula, and terminates in a long tendon, which passes behind the ' external malleolus, and obliquely across the sole of the foot, through I the groove in the cuboid bone, to be inserted into the base of the me- tatarsal bone of the great toe. Its tendon is thickened where it glides behind the external malleolus, and a sesamoid bone is developed in that part which plays upon the cuboid bone. Relations.—By its superfcial surface with the fascia of the leg and foot. By its deep surface with the fibula, peroneus brevis, os calcis, and cuboid bone, and near the head of the fibula with the fibular nerve. By its anterdor border it is separated from the extensor longus digitorum by the attachment of the fascia of the leg to the fibula; and by the posterior border by the same medium from the soleus and flexor longus pollicis. The tendon of the peroneus longus is furnished with three fibrous sheaths and as many synovial membranes; the first is situated behind the external malleolus, and is common to this muscle and the peroneus brevis, the second on the outer side of the os calcis, and the third on the cuboid bone. The Peroneus brevis (extensor tarsi fibularis brevier) lies be-