41G CHOROID I’LEXUS. sition of the thalami optici. The corpora striata are the superior ganglia of the cerebrum. The Tenia seinicircularis (tenia, a fillet) is a narrow band of medul- lary substance, extending along the posterior border of the corpus striatum, and serving as a bond of connection between that body and the thalamus opticus. The tenia is partly concealed by a large vein {vena corporis striati), which terminates in the vena Galeni of its own side. The vein is formed by small vessels from the corpus striatum and thalamus opticus, and is overlaid by a yellowish band, a thicken- ing of the lining membrane of the ventricle. This was first noticed and described by Tarinus, under the name of the hornp band. 'SYe may therefore term it, tenia Tarini.* The Thalamus opticus (thalamus, a bed) is an oblong body, having a thin coating of white substance on its surface; it has received its name from giving origin to one root of the optic nerve. It is the inferior ganglion of the cerebrum. Part only of the thalamus is seen in the floor of the lateral ventricle ; we must, therefore, defer its fur- ther description until we can examine it in its entire extent. The Choroid pleocus {xi^tov, resembling the chorion +) is a vas- cular fringe extending obliquely across the floor of the lateral ventricle, and sinking into the middle cornu. Anteriorly, it is small and taper- ing, and communicates with the choroid plexus of the opposite ventri- cle, through a large oval opening, the foramen of Monro, or foramen commune anterius. This foramen may be distinctly seen by pulling slightly on the plexus, and pressing aside the septum lucidum with the handle of the knife. It is situated between the under surface of the fornix, and the anterior extremities of the thalami optici, and forms a communication transversely between the lateral ventricles, and perpendicularly with the third ventricle. The choroid plexus presents upon its surface a number of minute vascular processes, which are termed villi. Thej'' are invested by a very delicate epithelium, surmounted by cilia, which have been seen in active movement in the embryo. In their interior the plexuses not unfrequently contain particles of calcareous matter, and they are sometimes covered by small clusters of serous cysts. The Corpus fimbriatum is a narrow white band, which is situated immediately behind the choroid plexus, and extends with it into the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. It is, in fact, the lateral thin edge of the fornix, and being attached to the hippocampus major in the descending horn of the lateral ventricle, it is also termed, tenia hippocampi. The Fornix is a white layer of medullary substance, of which a portion only is seen in this view of the ventricle. The Anterior cornu is triangular in its form, sweeping outwards, * Peter Tarin, a French anatomist; his work, entitled “ Adversaria Anato- mica,” was published in 1750. + See the note appended to the description of the choroid coat of the eye- ball.