200 FASCIili OF THE LEG. ligament, beneath which the tendons of the extensor muscles ])ass into the dorsum of tlie foot, in distinct sheaths lined by synovial bursoi. Upon the outer side it forms a distinct sheath which envelopes the peronei muscles, and ties them to the fibula. The anterior annular ligament is attached by one extremity to the outer side of the os calcis, and divides in front of the joint into two bands ; one of which is in- serted into the inner malleolus, while the other spreads over the inner side of the foot, and becomes continuous with the internal portion of the plantar fascia. The fascia of the dorsum of the foot is a thin layer given off from the lower border of the anterior annular ligament; it is continuous at each side with the lateral portions of the plantar fascia. The fascia of the posterior part of the leg is much thinner than the anterior, and consists of two layers, superficial and deep. The super- ficial layer is continuous with the posterior fascia of the thigh, and is increased in thickness upon the outer side of the leg by an expansion derived from the tendon of the biceps ; it terminates inferiorly in the external and internal annular ligaments. The deep layer is stretched across between the tibia and fibula, and forms the intermuscular fascia between the superficial and deep layer of muscles. It covers in superiorly the popliteus muscle, receiving a tendinous expansion from the semi-mer.ibranosus muscle, and is attached to the oblique line of the tibia. The internal annular ligament is a strong fibrous band attached above to the internal malleolus, and helow to the side of the inner tuberosity of the os calcis. It is continuous above with the posterior fascia of the leg, and below with the plantar fascia, forming sheaths for the passage of the flexor tendons and vessels into the sole of the foot. The eoctemal annular ligament, shorter than the internal, extends from the extremity of the outer malleolus to the side of the os calcis, and serves to hind down the tendons of the peronei muscles in their passage beneath the external ankle. The Plantar fascia consists of three portions, a middle and two lateral. The middle portion is thick and dense, and is composed of strong aponeimotic fibres, closely interwoven with each other. It is attached posteriorly to the imier tuberosity of the os calcis, and terminates under the heads of the metatarsal bones in five fasciculi. Each of these fasciculi divides into two slips, which are inserted one on each side into the bases of the first phalanges of the toes, leaving an interval between them for the passage of the flexor tendons. The point of division of this fascia into fasciculi and slips, is strengthened b}*^ trans- verse bands, which preserve the solidity of the fascia at its broadest part. The intervals between the toes give passage to the digital arte- ries and nerves and to the lumbricales muscles. The lateral portions are thin, and cover the sides of the sole of the foot j they are continuous behind with the internal and external an-