INFERIOR VENA CAVA. 381 The Uterine plexus is situated around the vagina, and upon the sides of the uterus, between the two layers of the broad ligaments. The veins fonning the vesical and uterine plexus are peculiarly subject to the production of phlebolites. The Common iliac veins are formed by the union of the external and internal iliac vein on each side of the pelvis. The riffht common iliac, shorter than the left, ascends obliquely behind the correspond- ing artery; and upon the intervertebral substance between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae, unites with the vein of the opposite side, to form the inferior cava. The left common iliac, longer and more oblique than the right, ascends behind, and a little internally to the corresponding arteiy, and passes beneath the right common iliac artery, near its origin, to unite with the right vein in the formation of the inferior vena cava. The right common iliac vein has no branch open- inn into it; the left receives the vena sacra media. These veins have no valves. INFERIOR VENA CAVA. The inferior vena cava is formed by the union of the two common iliac veins, upon the intervertebral substance between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebra. It ascends along the front of the vertebral column, on the right side of the abdominal aorta, and passing through the fissure in the posterior border of the liver and the quadrilateral opening in the tendinous centre of the diaphragm, terminates in the inferior and posterior part of the right auricle. There are no valves in this vein. It is in relation from below upwards, in front with the mesentery transverse duodenum, portal vein, pancreas, and liver, which latter nearly and sometimes completely surrounds it; behind it rests on the vertebral column and right crus of the diaphragm, from which it is se- parated by the right renal and right lumbar arteries ; to the right it has the peritoneum and sympathetic nerve ; and to the left the aorta. The Branches which the inferior cava receives in its course, are the— Lumbar, Right spermatic. Renal, Supra-renal, Phrenic, Hepatic. ternal iliac vein. 11. The common iliac veins; the small vein between these is the vena sacra media. 12, 12. Lumbar veins. 13. The right spermatic vein. 14. The left spermatic, opening into the left renal vein. 15. The right renal vein. 16. The trunk of the hepatic veins. 17. The greater vena azygos, com- mencing inferiorly in the lumbar veins. 18. The lesser vena azygos, also com- mencing in the lumbar veins. 19. A branch of communication with the left renal vein. 20. The termination of the lesser in the greater vena azygos, 21. The superior intercostal vein; communicating inferiorly with the lesser vena azygos, and terminating superiorly in the left vena innominata.