370 POPLITEAL VEIN. The popliteal vein ascends through the popliteal region, lying, in the first instance directly upon the artery, and then getting somewhat to its outer side. It receives several muscular and articular branches, and the external saphenous vein. The valves in this vein are four or five in number. FEMORAL VEIN. The femoral vein, passing through the opening in the adductor magnus muscle, ascends the thigh in the sheath of the femoral artery, and entering the pelvis beneath Poupart’s ligament, becomes the ex- ternal iliac vein. In the lower part of its course it is situated upon the outer side of the artery ; it then becomes placed behind that ves- sel, and, at Poupart’s ligament, lies to its inner side. It receives the muscular veins, and the profunda, and, through the saphenous open- ing, the internal saphenous vein. The valves in this vein are four or five in number. . i The Profunda vein is formed by the convergence of the numerous < small veins which accompany the branches of the artery ; it is a vein i of large size, lying in front of the profunda artery, and it terminates I in the femoral at about an inch and a half below Poupart’s ligament. ] Superficial veins are the external or short, and the internal or long saphenous. The External saphenous vein collects the blood from the outer side of the foot and leg. It passes behind the outer ankle, ascends along the posterior aspect of the legi lying in the groove between the two bellies of the gastrocnemius muscle, and pierces the deep fascia in the popliteal region to join the popliteal vein. It receives several cuta- neous branches in the popliteal region before passing through the deep fascia, and is accompanied in its course by the external saphenous nerve. The Internal saphenous vein commences upon the dorsum and inner side of the foot. It ascends in front of the inner ankle, and along the inner side of the leg ; it then passes behind the inner condyle of the femur and along the inner side of the thigh to the saphenous open- ing, where it pierces the sheath of the femoral vessels, and terminates in the femoral vein, at about one inch and a half below Poupart’s ligament. It receives in its course the cutaneous veins of the leg and thigh, and communicates freely with the deep veins. At the saphenous opening it is joined by the superficial epigastric and circuraflexa ilii veins, and by the external pudic. The situation of this vein in the thigh is not imfrequently occupied by two or even three trunks of nearly equal size.