49 VOMER. hence its designation, concha inferior. The bone presents for examina- tion a convex and a concave surface, and a superior and an inferior border. The conveje surface looks inwards and upwards, and forms the inferior boundary of the middle meatus naris; it is marked by several longitudinal grooves for branches of the spheno-palatine nerve and artery. The concave surface looks downwards and outwards, and constitutes the roof of the inferior meatus. The superior border is irregular; it is attached to the crista turbinalis inferior of the superior maxillary bone in front, to the same crest on the palate bone behind, and between those attachments gives off two, and sometimes three, thin and laminated processes. The most anterior of these processes, processus iachrpmalis, articulates with the lachrymal bone, and assists in completing the nasal duct. The middle process, processus maxillaris, descends and assists in closing the antrum maxillare; while the poste- rior, processus ethmoidalis, which is often wanting, ascends towards the ethmoid bone, and also takes part in the closure of the antrum maxil- lare. The inferior border is rounded, and thicker than the rest of the bone. Development.—By a single centre, which appears at about the middle of the first year. It affords no attachment to muscles. Articulations.—With four bones: the ethmoid, superior maxillary, lachrymal, and palate. Vomer.—The vomer is a thin, quadrilateral, plate of bone, forming the posterior and inferior part of the septum of the nares. The superior border is broad and expanded, to articulate, in the : middle, with the under surface of the body of the sphenoid, and on each side with the processus vaginalis of the pterygoid process. The anterior part of this border is hollowed into a sheath for the reception of the rostnim of the sphenoid. The inferior border is thin and irregular, and is received into the grooved summit of the crista nasalis. The posterior border is sharp and free, and forms the posterior division of the two nares. The anterior border is more or less deeply grooved for the reception of the central lamella of the ethmoid and the cartilage of the septum. This groove is an indication of the early constitution of : the bone of two lamellse, united at the inferior border. The vomer not : unfrequently presents a convexity to one or the other side, generally, iit is said, to the left. Development.—By a single centre, which makes its appearance at ' the same time with those of the vertebrae. Ossification begins from B)below and proceeds upwards. At birth, the vomer presents the fonn H 'of a trough in the concavity of which the cartilage of the septum nasi Iffis placed ; it is this disposition which subsequently enables the bone H. to embrace the rostrum of the sphenoid. The vomer has no muscles attached to it. Articulations.—With s/a?bones : the sphenoid, ethmoid, two superior frmaxillary, and two palate bones, and with the cartilage of the septum.