612 SCROTUM.—SPERMATIC CORD. The scrotum is composed of two layers, the integument and a proper - covering, the dartos ; the integument is extremely thin, transparent, and abundant, and beset by a number of hairs which issue obliquely from the skin, and have prominent roots. The dartos is a thin layer of contractile fibrous tissue, intermediate in properties between muscu- lar fibre and elastic tissue ; it forms the proper tunic of the scrotum, and sends inwards a distinct septum (septum scroti), which divides it into two cavities for the two testes. The dartos is continuous around the base of the scrotum with the common superficial fascia of the ab- domen and perineum. The Spermatic cord is the medium of communication between the testes and the interior of the abdomen ; it is composed of arteries, veins, lymphatics, nerves, the excretory duct of the testicle, and invest- ing tunics. It commences at the internal abdominal ring, where the vessels of which it is composed converge, and passes obliquely along the spermatic canal; the cord then escapes at the external abdominal ring, and descends through the scrotum to the posterior border of the testicle. The left cord is somewhat longer than the right, and per- mits the left testicle to reach a lower level than its fellow. The A rteries of the spermatic cord are, the spermatic artery from the aorta; the deferential artery, accompanying the vas deferens, from the superior vesical; and the cremasteric branch from the epigastric artery. The spermatic veins form a plexus, which constitutes the chief bulk of the cord; they are provided with valves at short intervals, and the smaller veins have a peculiar tendril-like arrangement which has ob- tained for them the name of vasa pampiniformia. The lympluxtics are of large size, and terminate in the lumbar glands. The nerves are the spermatic plexus, which is derived from the aortic and renal plexus, the genital branch of the genito-crural nerve, and the scrotal branch of the ilio-scrotal. The Vas deferens, the excretory duct of the testicle, is situated along the posterior border of the cord, where it may easily be distinguished by the hard and cordy sensation which it communicates to the fingers. Its parietes are very thick and tough, and its canal extremely small, and lined by the mucous membrane continued from the urethra. The Coverings of tlie spermatic cord are, the spermatic fascia, cre- master muscle, and fascia propria. The spermatic fascia is a prolonga- tion of the intercolumnar fascia, derived from the borders of the exter- nal abdominal ring during the descent of the testicle in the foetus. The cremasteric covering (erythroid) is the thin muscular expansion formed by the spreading out of the fibres of the cremaster, which is likewise carried down by the testis during its descent. The fascia propria is a continuation of the infundibiliform process from the trans- versalis fascia, which immediately invests the vessels of the cord, and is also obtained during the descent of the testis.