289 FEMORAL HERNIA. wall of the sheath. The superior opening of this space is named the femoral ring; it is bounded in front by Poupart’s ligament, behind by the os pubis, internally by Gimbernat's ligament, and externally by the femoral vein. The interval itself serves for the passage of the superficial lymphatic vessels from the saphenous opening to a lymphatic gland, which generally occupies the femoral ring; and from thence they proceed into the current of the deep lymphatics. The femoral ring is closed merely by a thin layer of subserous areolar tissue,* which retains the l}Tnphatic gland in its position, and is named septum crurale ; and by the peritoneum. It follows from this descrip- tion, that the femoral ring must be a weak point in the parietes of the abdomen, particular!}' in the female, where the femoral arch, or space included between Poupart’s ligament and the border of the pelvis, is larger than in the male, while the structures which pass through it are smaller. It happens consequently, that, if violent or continued pressure be made upon the abdominal viscera, a portion of intestine may be forced through the femoral ring into the infundibuli- form space in the sheath of the femoral vessels, carrying before it the peritoneum and the septum crurale,—this constitutes femoral hernia. If the causes which give rise to the formation of this hernia continue, the intestine, unable to extend further down the sheath, from the close connection of the latter with the vessels, will, in the next place, be forced forwards through the saphenous opening in the fascia lata, car- r}'ing before it two additional coverings, the sheath of the vessels, or fascia propria, and the cribriform fascia ; and then curving upwards over Poupart’s ligament, the hernia will become placed beneath the superficial fascia and integument. The direction which femoral hernia takes in its descent is at first downicards, then foncards, and then upwards ; and in endeavouring to reduce it, the application of the taxis must have reference to this course, and be directed in precisely the reverse order. The coverings of femoral hernia are, the Integument, Superficial fascia. Cribriform fascia. Fascia propria. Septum crurale. Peritoneal sac. The Fascia of the Leg is strong in the anterior tibial region, and gives origin by its inner surface to the upper part of the tibialis anti- cus, and extensor longus digitorum muscles. It is firmly attached to the tibia and fibula at each side, and becomes thickened inferiorly into a narrow band, the anterior annular • ThLs areolar tissue is sometimes very considerably thickened by a deposit of fat within its areolae, and forms a thick stratum over the hernial sac. U