VARIETIES IN THE ARTERIES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 363 border of the foot between the abductor pollicis and flexor brevis digitorum muscles, supplying the inner border of the foot and great toe. The Extemcd plantar artery, much larger than the internal, passes obliquely outwards between the first and second layers of the plantar muscles, to the fifth metatarsal space. It then turns horizontally in- wards between the second and third layers, to the first metatarsal space, where it inosculates with the communicating branch from the dorsalis pedis. The horizontal portion of the artery describes a slight curve, having the convexity forwards; this is the plantar arch. Branches.—The branches of the external plantar artery are the— IMuscular, Articular, Digital,—anterior perforating, Posterior perforating. The Muscular branches are distributed to the muscles in the sole of the foot. The Articular branches supply the ligaments of the articulations of the tarsus, and their synovial membranes. The Digital branches are four in number : the first is distributed to the outer side of the little toe ; the three others pass forwards to the cleft between the toes, and divide into collateral branches, which sup- ply the adjacent sides of the three external toes, and the outer side of the second. At the bifurcation of the toes, a small branch is sent I upwards from each digital arterj', to inosculate with the interosseous branches, of the metatarsea ; these are the anterior perforating arte- 1 r ries. The Posterior perforating are three small branches which pass r upwards between the heads of the three external dorsal interossei I:-muscles to inosculate with the arch formed by the metatarsea |?.artery. . Varieties in the Arteries of the Lower Extremity.—The femoral aartery occasionally divides at Poupart's ligament into two branches, tind sometimes into three ; the former is an instance of the high iivision of the profunda artery; and in a case of the latter kind which Kcurred during my dissections, the branches were the profunda, the superficial femoral, and the internal circumflex artery. Dr. Quain, in tiis “Elements of Anatomy,” records an instance of a high division of l.he femoral artery, in which the two vessels became again united in ; he popliteal region. The point of origin of the profunda artery varies onsiderably in different subjects, being sometimes nearer to and some- i imes farther from Poupart’s ligament, but more frequently the former. IThe branches of the popliteal artery are very liable to variety in size; ' nd in all these cases the compensating principle, so constant in the ascular system, is strikingly manifested. When the anterior tibial is (f small size, the peroneal is large ; and, in place of dividing into two