587 STRUCTURAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. the organ ; so that their general direction is from below upwards, and from the centre towards the circumference. The Hepatic veins commence at the circumference, and proceed from before backwards, to open into the vena cava, on the posterior border of the liver. Hence the branches of the two veins cross each other in their course. The portal vein, hepatic artery, and hepatic duct are moreover enve- loped in a loose areolar tissue, the capsule of Glisson, which permits them to contract upon themselves when emptied of their contents; the hepatic veins, on the contraiy, are closely adherent by their parietes to the surface of the canals in which they run, and are unable to contract. By these characters the anatomist is enabled, in any section of the liver, to distinguish at once the most minute branch of the portal vein from an hepatic vein: the former will be found more or less collapsed, and always accompanied by an artery and duct, and the latter widely open and solitary. • The Lymphatics of the liver are described in the Chapter dedicated to those vessels. The Nerves of the liver are derived from the systems both of animal and organic hfe ; the former proceed from the right phrenic and pneu- mogastric nerves, and the latter from the hepatic plexus. Structure and Mimite Anatomy of the Liver. The Liver is composed of lobtdes, of a connecting medium called Glisson's capside, of the ramifications of the portal vein, hepatic duct, hepatic artery, hepatic veins, lymphatics, and nerves, and is enclosed and retained in its situation by the peritoneum. The Lobules are small granular millet seed, of an irregular form, and presenting a number of round- ed prominences on their surface. When divided longitudinally, they have a foliated appearance, and transversely, a polygonal outline, with sharp or rounded angles, ac- cording to the smaller or greater qiuintity of Glisson’s capsule con- tained in the liver. Each lobule is divided upon its exterior into a base and a capsular surface. The base corresponds with one extremity of the lobule, is flattened, and rests upon an hepatic vein, which is * The lobules of the liver. The lobules as they are seen upon the surface of the liver, or when divided transversely. 1. The intralobular vein in the centre of each lobule. 2. The interlobular fissure. 3. The interlobular space. bodies, of about the size of a Fig. 184.*