445 SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. tributed to the lower eyelid and conjunctiva, and to the muscles and integument of the upper lip, nose, and cheek, fonning a plexus with the facial nerve. The Branches of the superior maxillary nerve are divisible into three groups;—1. Those which are given off in the spheno-maxillar)’- fossa. 2. Those in the infra-orbital canal; and 3. Those on the face. They may be thus arranged ;— Splteno-maxilla ryfossa, Infra-orhital canal. On the face, Orbital, Two from Meckel’s ganglion, Posterior dental. Middle dental. Anterior dental. Muscular, Cutaneous. The Orbital branch (n. subcutaneus malae) enters the orbit through the spheno-maxillary fissure, and divides into two branches, temporal and malar; the temporal branch ascends along the outer wall of the orbit, and, after receiving a branch from the lachrymal nerve, passes through a canal in the malar bone and enters the temporal fossa; it then pierces the temporal muscle and fascia and is distributed to the integument of the temple and side of the forehead, communicating with the facial and anterior auricular nerve. In the temporal fossa it com- municates with the deep temporal nerves. The malar, or inferior branch, takes its course along the lower angle of the outer wall of the orbit, and emerges upon the cheek through an opening in the malar bone, passing between the fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle. It communicates with branches of the infra-orbital and facial nerves. The Tivo branches from Meckel’s ganglion ascend from that body to join the nerve, as it crosses the spheno-maxillary fossa. The Posterior dental branches pass through small foramina, in the posterior surface of the superior maxillary bone, and running forwards in the base of the alveolus, supply the posterior teeth and gums. The Middle and anterior dental branches descend to the correspond- ing teeth and gums ; the former beneath the lining membrane of the antrum, the latter through distinct canals in the walls of the bone. Previously to their distribution, the dental nerves form a plexus (supe- rior maxillarj' plexus) in the outer wall of the superior maxillary bone immediately above the alveolus. From this plexus the filaments are given off which supply the pulps of the teeth, the gums, the mucous membrane of the floor of the nares, and the palate. Some gangliform masses have been described in connection with this plexus, one being placed over the canine, and another over the second molar tooth. The Muscular and cutaneous branches are the terminating filaments of the nerve; they supply the muscles, integument, and raucous mem- brane of the cheek, nose, and lip, and form an intricate plexus with branches of the facial nerve.