305 OCCIPITAL. POSTERIOR AURICULAR. The Inferior labial branch is distributed to the muscles and integu- ment of the lower lip. The Inferior coronary runs along the edge of the lower lip, between the mucous membrane and the orbicularis oris ; it inosculates with the corresponding artery of the opposite side. The Superior coronary follows the same course along the upper lip, inosculating with the opposite superior coronary artery, and at the middle of the lip it sends a branch upwards, to supply the septum of the nose and the mucous membrane. The Lateralis nasi is distributed to the ala and septum of the nose. The Inosculations of the facial artery are very numerous : thus, it anastomoses with the sublingual branch of the lingiial, with the ascending pharyngeal and posterior palatine arteries, with the inferior dental as it escapes from the mental foramen, infra-orbital at the in- fra-orbital foramen, transverse facial on the side of the face, and at the angle of the eye with the nasal and frontal branches of the ophthalmic artery. The facial artery is subject to considerable variety in its extent; it not unfrequently terminates at the angle of the nose or mouth, and is rarely symmetrical on both sides of the face. 4. The INIastoid artery turns downwards from its origin, to be distributed to the stemo-mastoid muscle, and to the lymphatic glands of the neck ; sometimes it is replaced by two small branches. 5. The Occipital artery, smaller than the anterior branches, passes backwards beneath the posterior belly of the digastricus, the trachelo-mastoid and stemo-mastoid muscles, to the occipital groove in the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. It then ascends between the splenius and complexus muscles, and divides into two branches which are distributed upon the occiput, anastomosing with the opposite occipital, the posterior auricular, and temporal arterj'. The hypoglossal nerve curves around this artery near its origin from the external carotid. Branches.—It gives off only two branches deserving of name, the . inferior meningeal and princeps cervicis. The Inferior meningeal ascends by the side of the internal jugular vein, and passes through the foramen lacemm posterius, to be distri- : buted to the dura mater. The Arteria princeps cervicis is a large and irregular branch. It descends the neck between the complexus and semi-spinalis colli, and ; inosculates with the profunda cervicis of the subclavian. This branch is the means of establishing a very important collateral circulation between the branches of the carotid and subclavian, after ligature of the common carotid artery. 6. The Posterior auricular artery arises from the external carotid, above the level of the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and