153 ANKLE JOINT. i 1 i I The inferior interosseous ligameiit consists of short and strong fibres, which hold the bones firmly together inferiorly, where they are nearly in contact. This articulation is so firm, that the fibula is likely to be broken in the attempt to rupture the ligament. The anterior inferior ligament is a broad band, consisting of two fasciculi of parallel fibres which pass obliquely across the anterior aspect of the articulation of the two bones at their inferior extremity, from the tibia to the fibula. The posterior inferior ligament (fig. 77, 2) is a similar band upon the posterior surface of the articidation. Both ligaments project some- what below the margin of the bones, and senm to deepen the cavity of articulation with the astrag-alus. The trafisrerse ligameiit (fig. 77, 3) is a narrow band of ligamentous fibres, continuous with the preceding, and passing transversely across tha back of the ankle joint between the two malleoli. The synovial membrane of the inferior tibio-fibular articulation, is a duplicature of the synovial membrane of the ankle joint, reflected up- wards for a short distance between the two bones. Actions.—Between the tibia and fibula there exists an obscure de- gree of movement, which is principafly calculated to enable the latter to resist injury by yielding for a trifling extent to the pressure exerted. 4. Ankle joint.—The ankle is aginglymoid articulation; the surfaces entering into its formation are the under surface of the tibia with its malleolus and the malleolus of the fibula, above, and the surface of the astragalus with its two lateral facets, below. The ligaments are three in number: Anterior, Internal lateral. External lateral. The anterior ligament is a thin membranous layer, passing from the margin of the tibia, to the astragalus in front of the articular surface. It is in relation, in frmt, with the ex- tensor tendons of the great and lesser toes, with the tendons of the tibialis anticus and peroneus tertius, and with the anterior tibial vessels and nerve. Posteriorly it lies in contact with the extra-sjmovial adi- pose tissue and with the synovial membrane. Fig. T5.* • An internal view of the ankle joint. 1. The internal malleolus of the tiijia. . 2, 2. Part of the a-stragalus ; the rest is concealed by the ligaments. 3. The » 08 calcis. 4. Tlie scaphoid bone. 5. Tlie internal cuneifonn bone. 6. The /. internal lateral or deltoid ligament. 7. The anterior ligament. 8. The tendo A Achillhi; a small bursa is seen interposed between this tendon and the tul)e- h rosity of the os calcis.