STRUCTURE OF THE TESTIS. G14 serous coverings, it is a shut sac, investing the organ, and thence reflected so as to fomi a bag around its circumference: hence it is divided, into the tunica vaginalis projyria, and tunica vaginalis rejkxa. The tunica vaginalis propria covers the surface of the tunica albuginea, and surrounds the epididymis, connecting it to the testis by means of a distinct duplicature. The tunica vaginalis reflexa is attached by its external surface, through the medium of a quantity of loose areolar tissue, to the inner surface of the dartos. Between the two layers is the smooth surface of the shut sac, moistened by its proper secre- tion. The Tunica albuginea (dura mater testis) is a thick fibrous mem- brane, of a bluish white colour, and the proper tunic of the testicle. It is adherent externally to the tunica vaginalis propria, and from the union of a serous with a fibrous membrane is considered to be a fibro- serous membrane, like the dura mater and pericardium. After sur- rounding the testicle, the tunica albuginea is reflected from its posterior border into the interior of the gland, and forms a projecting longitudinal ridge, which is called the mediastinum testis (corpus Highmorianum*), from which numerous fibrous cords (trabecidae, septula) are given off, to be inserted into the inner surface of the tunic. The mediastinum serves to contain the vessels and ducts of the testicle in their passage into the substance of the organ, and the fibrous cords are admirably fitted, as has been shewn by Sir Astley Cooper, to prevent compres- sion of the gland. If a transverse section be made of the testis, and the surface of the mediastinum examined, it will be observed that the blood-vessels of the substance of the organ are situated near the poste- rior border of the mediastinum, while the divided ducts of the rete testis occupy a place nearer the free margin. The Tunica vasculosa (pia mater testis) is the nutrient membrane of the testis; it is situated immediately within the tunica albuginea, and encloses the substance of the gland, sending processes inwards between the lobules, in the same manner that the pia mater is reflected between the convolutions of the brain. The substance of the testis consists of numerous conical flattened lobules (lobuli testis), the bases being directed towards the surface of the organ, and the apices towards the mediastinum. Krause found between four and five hundred of these lobules in a single testis. Each lobule is invested by a distinct sheath formed of two layers, one being derived from the tunica vasculosa, the other from the tunica albuginea. The lobule is composed of one or several minute tubuli, tubuli seminiferi,‘Y exceedingly convoluted, anastomosing frequently * Nathaniel Highmore, a physician of Oxford, in his “ Corporis Humani Dis- quisitio Anatomica,” published in 1651, considers the corpus Highmorianum as a duct formed by the convergence of the fibrous cords, which he mistakes for smaller ducts. t Lauth estimates the whole number of tubuli seminiferi in each testis at 840, and their average length at 2 feet 3 inches. According to this calculation, the whole length of the tubuli seminiferi would be 1890 feet.