468 ULNAR NERVE.—BRANCHES. and five digital. The muscular branch is distributed to the muscles of the ball of the thumb. The digital branches send twigs to the lumbri- cales muscles and are thus arranged: two pass outwards to the thumb to supply its borders ; one to the radial side of the index finger ; one subdivides for the supply of the adjacent sides of the index and mid- dle finger^; and the remaining one, for the supply of the adjacent sides of the middle and ring fingers. The digifiil nerves in their course along the fingers are situated to the inner side of the digital arteries. Opposite the base of the first phalanx each nerve gives off a dorsal branch which runs along the border of the dorsum of the finger. Near the extremity of the finger the digital nerve divides into & palmar dcnUi a dorsal branch; the former supplying the sentient extremity of the finger, and the latter the structures around and beneath the nail. The digital nerve maintains no communication with its fellow of the oppo- site side. The Ulnar nerve is somewhat smaller than the median, behind which it lies, gradually diverging from it in its course. It arises from the brachial plexus in common with the internal head of the median and the internal cutaneous nerve, and runs down the inner side of the arm, to the groove between the internal condyle and olecranon, resting upon the internal head of the triceps, and accompanied by the inferior profunda artery. At the elbow it is superficial, and supported by the inner condyle, against which it is easily compressed, giving rise to the thrilling sensation along the inner side of the fore-arm and little finger, ascribed to striking the “ funny bone.” It then passes between the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris and descends along the inner side of the fore-arm, crosses the annular ligament, and divides into two branches, superficial and deep palmar. At the commencement of the middle third of the fore-arm, it becomes applied against the arterj^and lies to the ulnar side of that vessel, as far as the hand. The Branches of the ulnar nerve are,— Muscular in the upper arm, Dorsal branch. Articular, Superficial palmar, Muscular in the fore-arm. Deep palmar. Anastomotic, The Muscular branches in the upper arm are a few filaments distri- buted to the triceps. ^ The Articular branches are several filaments to the elbow-joint, which are given off from the nerve as it lies in the groove between the inner condyle and the olecranon. The Muscular branches in the fore-arm are distributed to the flexor carpi ulnaris and flexor profundus digitorum muscle. The Anastomotic branch (n. cutaneus palniaris ulnaris) is a small nerve which arises from the ulnar at about the middle of the fore-arm, and divides into a deep and a superficial branch; the former accompa-