OPTIC NERVE. 440 commissure diverges from its fellow, becomes rounded in form, and is enclosed in a sheath derived from the arachnoid. In passing through the optic foramen the optic nerve receives a sheath from the dura mater, which splits at this point into two layers ; one, which becomes the periosteum of the orbit; the other, the one in question, which forms a sheath for the nerve, and is lost in the sclerotic coat of the eyeball. Fig, 148.* * The isthmus encephali, shewing the thalamus opticus, corpora quadri- gomina, pons Varolii, and medulla oblongata, as viewed from the side. 1. The thalamus opticus. 2. The posterior prominence of this body, tuberculum supe- rius posterius or pulvinar. 3. The corpus geniculatum externum. 4. The coipus geniculatum intemmn. 5. The commencement of the tractus opticus. 6. The pineal gland. 7. The nates. 8. The testis of one side. 9. The bra- chium anterius of the corpora quadb-igemina. a. The brachium posterius. b. The origin of the fourth nerve, which may be seen descending over the crus cerebri, c. The processus e cerebello ad testem, or superior peduncle of the cerebellum, d. The band of fibres teimed laqueus, the superior division of the fasciculus olivaris crossing the superior peduncle of the cerebellum to enter the corpora quadrigemina. Through the small triangular space in front of this band, crossed by the fourth nerve, some of the fibres of the superior peduncle of the cerebellum may be seen. e. The superior portion of the crus cerebri, termed tegmentum. /. Its inferior portion, g. The third nerve, The pons Varolii. i. The crus cerebelli, or middle peduncle of the cerebellum, k. The inferior peduncle derived from the corpus restiforme. The mass lying in the angular interval upon these is the superior peduncle. 1. The fifth nerve issuing from between the transverse fasciculi of the pons Varolii. m. The sixth nerve, n. The seventh nerve; the inferior and smaller cord is the facial nerve, the superior and larger the auditory, o. The corpus olivare crossed inferiqrly by the superficial arcifomi fibres, p. The corpus pjTamidale. q. The median posterior fasciculi of the meduUa oblongata, r. The corpus restiforme. s. The spinal cord. t. The fourth ventricle.