76 SCAPULA. tubercle and ridge, for the coraco-cl'avicular ligament. The opening for the nutritious vessels is seen upon the under surface of the bone. Developrtmnt.—By two centres; one for the shaft and one for the sternal extremity; the former appearing] before any other hone of the skeleton, the latter between fifteen and eighteen. Articulations.—With the sternum and scapula. Attachment of Muscles.—To six: the sterno-mastoid, trapezius, pec- toralis major, deltoid, subclavius, and sterno-hyoid. Scapula.—The scapula is a flat triangular bone, situated upon the posterior aspect and side of the thorax occupjdng the space from the second to the seventh rib. It is divisible into an anterior and posterior surface ; superior, inferior, and posterior border; anterior, superior, and inferior angle ; and processes. The anterior surface, or subscapular fossa, is concave and irregular, and marked by several oblique ridges which have a direction upwards and outwards. The whole concavity is occupied by the subscapularis muscle, with the exception of a small triangular portion near the supe- rior angle. The posterior surface or dorsum is convex, and unequally divided into two portions by the spine ; that portion above the spine is the supra-spinous fossa ; and that below, the infra-spinous fossa. The superior border is the shortest of the three ; it is thin and con- cave, and terminated at one extremity by the superior angle, and at the other by the coracoid process. At its inner termination, and formed partly by the base of the coracoid process, is the supra-scapular notch, for the transmission of the supra-scapular nerve. The inferior or axillary border is thick, and marked by several grooves and depressions ; it terminates superiorly at the glenoid cavity, and inferiorly at the inferior angle. Immediately below the glenoid cavity is a rough ridge, which gives origin to the long head of the triceps muscle. Upon the posterior surface of this border is a de- pression for the teres minor ; and upon its anterior surface a deeper groove for the teres major; near the inferior angle is a projecting lip, which increases the surface of origin of the latter muscle. The posterior border or base, the longest of the three, is turned to- wards the vertebral column. It is intermediate in thickness between the superior and inferior, and convex, being considerably inflected out- wards towards the superior angle. The anterior angle is the thickest part of the bone, and forms the head of the scapula; it is immediately surrounded by a constricted portion, the neck. The head presents a shallow pyriform articular sur- face, the glenoid cautVy, having the pointed extremity upwards; and at its apex is a Tough depression, which gives attachment to the long tendon of the biceps. The superior angle is thin and pointed. The inferior angle is thick, and smooth upon the external surface for the origin of the teres major and for a large bursa over which the upper border of the latissimus dorsi muscle plays. The spine of the scapula, triangular in form, crosses the upper part of