]4 DORSAL VERTEBRAE. pedicles are strong, and the lamina broad and thick; the spinal fora- men small and round, and the inferior inter- vertebral notch of large size, the superior can scarcely be said to exist. The spinous process is long, prismoid, directed very obliquely down- wards, and terminated by a tubercle. The transverse processes are large and strong, and directed obliquelj’" back- wards. Upon the an- terior and superior as- pect of their summits is a small facet for the articulation of the tubercle of a rib. The articular processes are ver- tical, the superior facing directly backwards, and the inferior directly forwards. The peculiar vertebrae in the dorsal region are the first, ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth. The first dorsal vertebra approaches very closely in character to the last cervical. The body is broad from side to side, and concave above. The superior articular processes are oblique, and the spinous process horizontal. It has an entire articular surface for the first rib, and a half surface for the second. The ninth dorsal vertebra has only one half articular surface at each side. The tenth has a single entire articular surface at each side. The eleventh and twelfth have each a single entire articular surface at each side; they approach in character to the lumbar vertebras; their transverse processes are very short, trifid at their summits, and have no articu- lation with the corresponding ribs. The transverse processes of the twelfth dorsal vertebra are quite rudimentary, and its inferior articular processes look outwards. Lumbar Vertebra.—These are the largest pieces of the vertebral column. The body is broad and large, and thicker before than behind. The pedicles very strong; the lamina short, thick, and broad; the in- ferior intervertebral notches very large, and the spinal foramen large and oval. The spinous 'process is thick and broad. The transverse processes (costiform processes) are slender, pointed, and directed only slightly backwards. The superior articular processes are concave, and * A lateral view of a dorsal vertebra. 1. The body. 2, 2. Articular facets for the heads of ribs. .3. The pedicle. 4. The superior intervertebral notch. 5. The inferior intervertebral notch. 6. The spinous process. 7. The extre- mity of the transverse process, marked by an articular surface for the tubercle of a rib. 8. The two superior articular processes looking backwards. 9. The two inferior articular processes looking forwards.