632 TIIYWUS GLAND. Fig. 198.* open into a small '•'•pouch" which is situated at their base, and leads to the central cavity, the "reservoir of the thymus." The Jieservo'ir is lined in its in- terior by a vascular mucous mem- brane, which is raised into ridges by a layer of ligamentous bands situated beneath it. The liga- mentous bands proceed in various directions, and encircle the open mouths {pores) of the secretory cells and pouches. This ligament- ous layer serves to keep the lo- bules together, and prevent the injurious distension of the cavity. When either gland is carefully unravelled by removing the areolar capsule and vessels, and dissecting away the reticulated areolar tissue which retains the lobules in con- tact, the reservoir, from being folded in a serpentine manner upon itself, admits of being drawn out into a lengthened tubular cord,+ around which the lobules are clustered in a spiral manner, and resemble knots upon a cord, or a string of beads. The reservoir, pouches, and cells, contain a white fluid “ like chyle,” or “like cream, but with a small admixture of red globules.” In an examination of the thymic fluid which I lately (1840) made, with a Powell microscope magnify- ing 600 times linear measure, I observed that the corpuscles were very niunerous, smaller than the blood particles, globular and oval in form, irregular in outline, variable in size, and provided with a small central nucleus. In the human fetus this fluid has been found by Sir Astley Cooper * The course and termination of the “absorbent ducts” of the thymus of the calf; from one of Sir Astley Cooper’s preparations. 1. The two internal jugular veins. 2. The superior vena cava. 3. The thoracic duct, dividing into two branches, which reunite previously to their termination in the root of the left jugular vein. 4. The two thymic ducts; that on the left side opens into the thoracic duct, and that on the right into the root of the right jugular vein. + See the beautiful plates in Sir Astley Cooper’s work.