570 SUIIMAXII.LAIIV Or-AND.—SUUMNGUAI. GLAND. superficially for a short distance over the masseter muscle, and deeply behind the ramus of the lower jaw. It reaches inferiorly to below the level of the angle of the lower jaw, and posteriorly to the mastoid process, slightly overlapping the insertion of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Embedded in its substance are the external carotid artery, temporo- maxillary vein, and facial nerve; emerging from its anterior border, the transverse facial artery and branches of the pes anserinus; and above, the temporal artery. The duct of the parotid gland (Stenon’s* duct) commences at the papilla upon the internal surface of the cheek, opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw; and, piercing the buccinator muscle, crosses the masseter to the anterior border of the gland, where it divides into several branches, which subdivide and ramify through its structure, to terminate in the small csecal pouches of which the gland is composed. A small branch is generally given oif from the duct while crossing the masseter muscle, which forms, by its ramifications and terminal dilatations, a small glandular appendage, the soda, parotidis. Stenon’s duct is remarkably dense and of considerable thickness, while the area of its canal is extremely small. The Submaxillary gland is situated in the posterior angle of the submaxillary triangle of the neck. It rests upon the hyo-glossus and mylo-hyoideus muscles, and is covered in by the body of the lower jaw and by the deep cervical fascia. It is separated from the parotid gland by the stylo-maxillary ligament, and from the sublingual by the mylo- hyoideus muscle. Embedded among its lobules are the facial artery and submaxillary ganglion. The excretory duct (Wharton’s) of the submaxillary gland com- mences upon the papilla, by the side of the frsenum linguae, and passes backwards beneath the mylo-hyoideus and resting upon the hyo-glossus muscle, to the middle of the gland, where it divides into numerous branches, which ramify through the structure of the gland, and termi- nate by caecal extremities. It lies in its course against the mucous membrane forming the floor of the mouth, and causes a prominence of that membrane. The Sublingual is an elongated and flattened gland, situated beneath _ ■ the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth, on each side of the fraenum linguae. It is in relation, above, with the mucous membrane ; in front, with the depression by the side of the symphysis of the lower jaw; externally, with the mylo-hyoideus muscle ; and, internally, with the hypoglossal nerve and genio-hyo-glossus muscle. It pours its secretion into the mouth bj’’ seven or eight small ducts, which open by small apertures on each side of the fraenum' linguae. Structure. — The salivary are conglomerate glands, consisting of | * Nicholas Stenon, an anatomist of great research. He discovered the parotid j duct while in Paris. He was appointed Professor of Medicine in Copenhagen in * 1672. His work, “ De Musculis et Glandulis Observationes,” was published in 1664. ■