585 OF THE LIVER. in length, througli which the hepatic ducts, hepatic arter)’-, and portal vein enter the liver. Hence this fissure was considered by the older anatomists as the gate (poi-ta) of the liver ; and the large vein entering the organ at this point, the portal vein. At their entrance into the transverse fissiure the branches of the hepatic duct are the most anterior, next those of the artery, and most posteriorly the portal vein. Fig. 183.* tX The Fissure for tliegall-hladder is a shallow fossa extending forwards, parallel with the longitudinal fissure, from the right extremity of the transverse fissure to the free border of the liver, where it frequently forms a notch. The Fissure for the vena cava is a deep and short fissure, occasion- ally a circular tunnel, which proceeds from a little behind the right extremity of the transverse fissure to the posterior border of the liver, and lodges the inferior vena cava. These five fissures taken collectively resemble an inverted y, the base corresponding with the firee margin of the liver, and the apex with its posterior border. Viewing them in this way, the two anterior * The under surface of the liver. 1. The right lobe. 2. The left lobe. 3. The lobus quadratus. 4. The lobus Spigelii. 5. The lobus caudatus. 6. The longi- tudinal fissure; the numeral is placed on the rounded cord, the remains of the umbilical vein. 7. The pons hepatis. 8. The fissure for the ductus venosus; the obliterated cord of the ductus is seen passing backwards to be attached to the coats of the inferior vena cava (9). 10. The gall-bladder lodged in its fossa. 11. The transverse fissure, containing, from before backwards, the hepatic duct, hepatic artery, and portal vein. 12. The vena cava. 13. A depression corre- sponding with the curve of the colon. 14. A double depression produced by the right kidney and its supra-renal capsule. 15. The rough surface on the posterior border of the liver left uncovered by peritoneum ; the cut edge of peritoneum surrounding this surface forms part of the coronary ligament. 16. The notch on the anterior border, separating the two lobes. 17. The notch on the posterior border, corresponding with the vertebral column.