387 CHAPTER VII. ON THE LYMPHATICS. The lymphatic vessels, or absorbents, have received their double appellation from certain phenomena which they present; the former name being derivable from the appearance of the limpid fluid (lympha, water) which they convey; and the latter from their supposed pro- perty of absorbing foreign substances into the system. They are minute, delicate, and transparent vessels, remarkable for their general uniformity of size, for a knotted appearance which is due to the i presence of, numerous valves, for the frequent dichotomous divisions which occur in their course, and for their division into several branches immediately before entering a gland. Their oflice is to collect the I; products of digestion and the detrita of nutrition, and convey them 11 into the venous circulation near the heart. I Lymphatic vessels commence in a delicate network which is distri- mted on the cutaneous surface of the body, on the various surfaces of )rgans and throughout their internal structure ; and from this net- work the lymphatic vessels proceed, nearly in straight lines, in a Erection towards the root of the neck. In their course they are in- ;ercepted by numerous, small, spheroid or oblong or flattened bodies, ymphatic glands. The lymphatic vessels entering these glands are ermed vasa inferentia or afferentia, and those which quit them, vasa fferentia. The vasa inferentia vary in number from two to six, they livide at the distance of a few lines from the gland into several smaller ressels, and enter it by one of the flattened surfaces.* The vasa efie- •entia escape from the gland on the opposite, but not unfrequently on he same surface ; they consist, like the vasa inferentia at their junc- ion with the gland, of several small vessels which unite after a course 'f a few lines to form from one to three trunks, often twice as large as he vasa inferentia. Lymphatic vessels admit of a threefold division, into superficial, ! leep, and lactcals. The superficial lymphatic vessels, on the surface ■>f the body, follow the course of the veins, and pierce the deep fascia rn convenient situations, to join the deep lymphatics. On the sur- face of organs they converge to the nearest lymphatic trunks. The ‘Upetficial lymphatic glands are placed in the most protected situations * See Mr. Lane’s article on the “ Lymphatic System,” in the Cyclopaedia of ► vnatomy and Physiology. <