400 NERVOUS SYSTEM.—DEVELOPMENT. medulla oblongata, and diverge to every part of the surface of the brain; while the converging fibres commence at the surface and pro- ceed inwards towards the centre, so as to connect the diverging fibres of opposite sides. In certain parts of their course the diverging fibres are separated by the grey substance, and increase in number so as to form a body of considerable size, which is called a ganglion. The position and mutual relations of these fibres and ganglia may be best explained by reference to the mode of development of the cerebro- spinal axis in animals and in man. The centre of the nervous system, in the lowest animals possessed of a lengthened axis, presents itself in the form of a double cord. A step higher in the animal scale, and knots or ganglia are developed on one extremity of this cord; such is the most rudimentary condition of the brain in the lowest forms of vertebrata. In the lowest fishes the anterior extremity of the double cord displays a succession of five pairs of ganglia. The higher fishes and amphibia appear to have a different disposition of these primitive ganglia. The first two have become fused into a single ganglion, and then follow only three pairs of sym- metrical ganglia. But if the larger pair be unfolded, after being hardened in alcohol, it will then be seen that the whole number of ganglia exist, but that four have become concealed by a thin covering that has spread across them. This condition of the brain carries us upwards in the animal scale even to Mammalia ; e. g., in the dog or cat we find, first, a single ganglion, the cerebellum ; then three pairs following each other in succession ; and if we unfold the middle pair, we shall be at once convinced that it is composed of two pairs of primitive ganglia concealed by an additional development. Again, it will be observed, that the primitive ganglia of opposite sides, at first separate and disjoined, become connected by means of transverse fibres of communication (commissures ; commissura, a joining). The office of these commissures is the association in function of the two sym- metrical portions. Hence we arrive at the general and important con- clusion, that the brain, among the lower animals, consists of primitive cords, primitive ganglia upon those cords, and commissures which connect the substance of adjoining ganglia, and associate their func- tions. In the development of the cerebro-spinal axis in man, the earliest indication of the spinal cord is presented under the form of a pair of minute longitudinal filaments placed side by side. Upon these, towards the anterior extremity, five pairs of minute swellings are observed, not disposed in a straight line as in fishes, but curved upon each other so as to correspond with the direction of the future cranium. The posterior pair soon become cemented on the middle line, forming a single ganglion; the second pair also imite with each other; the third and foimth pairs, at first distinct, are speedily veiled by a lateral development, which arches backwards and conceals them; the anterior pair, at first very small, decrease in size, and become almost lost in the increased development of the preceding pairs.