189 CONSTRICTOR JIKDICS. CONSTRICTOR SUPERIOR. to the vertebral column. The saw is then to be applied behind the styloid processes, and the base of the skull sawn through. The vessels and loose structures should be removed from the preparation, and the pharyn.v stuffed with tow or wool for the purpose of distend- ing it, and rendering the muscles more easy of dissection. The pha- r^’nx is invested by a proper pharyngeal fascia. The Constrictor inferior, the thickest of the three muscles of this class, arises from the upper rings of the trachea, the cricoid car- tilage, and the oblique line of the thyroid. Its fibres spread out and are inserted into the fibrous raphe of the middle of the pharynx, the inferior fibres being almost horizontal, and the superior oblique, and overlapping the middle constrictor. Relations.—Bj' its external surface with the anterior surface of the vertebral column, the longus colli, the sheath of the common carotid arter}', the sterno-thyroid muscle, the thyroid gland, and some lymph- atic glands. By its internal szirface with the middle constrictor, the stylo-pharyngeus, the palato-pharyngeus, and the mucous membrane of the pharynx. By its loiver border, near the cricoid cartilage, it is in relation Avith the recurrent nerve; and by the upper border with the superior larv'ngeal nerve. The fibres of origin of this muscle are blended Avith those of the sterno-thyroid, thyro-hyoid, and crico- thyroid, and it frequently forms a tendinous arch across the lattei’. This muscle must be removed before the next can be examined. The Constrictor medius anses from the great cornu of the os hyoides, from the lesser comu, and from the stylo-hyoidean ligament. It radiates, from its origin, upon the side of the pharynx, the loAver fibres descending and being overlapped by the constrictor inferior, and the upper fibres ascending so as to cover in the constrictor superior. It is inserted into the rapM and by a fibrous aponeurosis into the basilar process of the occipital bone. Relations.—By its external surface Avith the vertebral column, the longus colli, rectus anticus major, the carotid A-essels, inferior constric- tor, hyo-glossus muscle, lingual arterj', pharj’ngeal plexus of nerv'es, and some lymphatic glands. By its internal surface, Avith the superior constrictor, stylo-phimyngeus, palato-pharyngeus, and mucous mem- brane of the phaiynx. The upper portion of this muscle must be turned down, to bring the AA'hole of the superior constrictor into view ; in so doing, the stylo-pharj'ugeus muscle will be seen passing behind its upper border. The Constrictor superior is a thin and quadrilateral plane of muscular fibres arising from the extremity of the molar ridge of the lower JaAv, from the pterygo-maxillary ligament, and from the loAver half of the internal pterygoid plate, and inserted into the raphe and basilar process of the occipital bone. Its superior fibres are arched and leave a concave interspace betAveen its upper border and the basilar process, and it is overlapped inferiorly by the middle con- strictor. BetAveen the side of the pharynx and the ramus of the loAver jaAV is a triangular interval, the muoMo-pharyngeal space, Avhich