WRIST JOINT. ]41 border of the interosseous ligament. This ligament affords an exten- sive surface for the attachment of muscles. The interosseous ligament is in relation, in front, with the flexor profundus digitorum, the flexor longus poUicis, and pronator quadratus muscle, and with the anterior interosseous artery and nerve ; and be- hind with the supinator brevis, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, ex- tensor primi intemodii pollicis, extensor secundi internodii pollicis, and extensor indicis muscle, and near the wrist with the anterior in- terosseous artery and posterior interosseous nerve. The anterior inferior ligament is a thin fasciculus of fibres, passing transversely between the radius and ulna. The posterior inferior ligament is also thin and loose, and has the same disposition on the posterior surface of the articulation. The interarticular, or triangular jihro-cartilage, acts the part of a ligament between the lower extremities of the radius and ulna. It is attached by its apex to a depression on the inner surface of the styloid process of the ulna, and by its base to the edge of the radius. This fibro-cartilage is lined upon its upper surface by a synovial membrane, which forms a duplicature between the radius and ulna, and is called the membrana sacciformis. By its lower surface it enters into the ar- ticulation of the wrist-joint. Actions.—The movements taking place between the radius and the ulna are, the rotation of the former upon the latter; rotation forwards being termed pronation, and rotation backwards supination. In these movements the head of the radius turns upon its own axis, within the orbicular ligament and the lesser sigmoid notch of the ulna ; while inferiorly the radius presents a concavity which moves upon the roimded head of the ulna. The movements of the radius are chiefly limited by the anterior and posterior inferior ligaments ; hence these are not unfrequently ruptured in great muscular efforts. 7. Wrist Joint.—The wrist is a ginglymoid articulation; the arti- cular surfaces entering into its formation being the radius and under surface of the triangular fibro-cartilage above, and the rounded surfaces of the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bone below ; its ligaments are four in number,— Anterior, Internal lateral. Posterior, External lateral. The anterior ligament is a broad and membranous layer consisting of three fasciculi, which pass between the lower part of the radius and the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bone. The posterior ligament, also thin and loose, passes between the posterior surface of the radius, and the posterior surface of the semi- lunar and cuneiform bone. The internal lateral ligament extends from the styloid process of the ulna to the cuneiform and pisiform bone. The external lateral ligament is attached by one extremity to the styloid process of the radius, and by the other to the side of the sea-