406 ORIGIN OF NERV'ES, The microscope has failed in making out any structural distinction be- tween the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves ; but the latter are remarkable for the possession of a ganglion near their attach- ment with the cord. This ganglion is observed upon the posterior roots of all the spinal nerves, and also upon the corresponding root of the fifth cranial nerve, which is thence considered a spinal cranial nerve. Upon others of the cranial nerves a ganglion is found, which associates them in function with the nerves of sensation, and establishes an analogy with the spinal nerves. According to Mr. Grainger, both roots of the spinal nerves, as well as of most of the cerebral, divide into two sets of fibres upon entering the cord, one set being connected with the grey substance, while the other is continuous with the white or fibrous part of the cord. The former he considers to be the agents of the excito-motory system of Dr. Marshall Hall; and the latter, the communication with the brain and the medium for the transmission of sensation and volition. He has not been able to trace the fibres which enter the grey substance to their termination ; but he thinks it probable that the ultimate fibres of the posterior root join those of the anterior root; or, in the words of Dr. Marshall Hall’s system, that the incident fibres (sensitive) are continuous with the reflex (motor). The connection of a nerve with the cerebro-spinal axis is called, for convenience of description, its origin: this tenn must not, however, be taken literally, for each nerve is developed in the precise situation which it occupies in the body, and with the same relations that it pos- sesses in after life. Indeed, we not unfrequently meet with instances, in anencephalous foetuses, where the nerves are beautifull}’ and com- pletely formed, while the brain and spinal cord are wanting. The word “ origin ” must therefore be considered as a relict of the darkness of preceding ages, when the cerebro-spinal axis was looked upon as the tree from which the nerves pushed forth as branches. In their distri- bution, the spinal nerves for the most part follow the course of the ar- teries, particularly in the limbs, where they lie almost constantly to the outer side and superficially to the vessels, as if for the purpose of receiving the first intimation of danger and of communicating it to the muscles, that the latter may instantly remove the arteries from im- pending injury. The Sympathetic system consists of numerous ganglia, of communi- cating branches passing between the ganglia, of others passing be- tween the ganglia and the cerebro-spinal axis, and of branches of dis- tribution which are remarkable for their frequent and plexiform com- munications. The sympathetic nerves also differ from other nerves in their colour, , which is of a grejflsh pearly tint. The capillary vessels of nerves are very minute. They run parallel with the nervous fasciculi, and every here and there are connected by transverse communications, so as to give rise to a net-work composed of oblong meshes very similar to the capillary system of muscles. The nervous system may be divided for convenience of description