599 STRUCTURE OF THE KIDNEYS. of blood-vessels and of the plexiform convolutions of uriniferous tiibuli, and not only constitutes the surface of the kidney, but dips between the cones and surrounds them nearly to their apices. The cones or pyramids of the tubular portion of the kidney are com- posed of minute straight tubuli uriniferi, of about the diameter of a fine hair. The tubuli commence at the apices of the cones, and pursue a parallel course towards the periphery of the organ, bifurcating from point to point, and separated only by minute straight blood-vessels, and a small quantity of parenchymatous substance. At the bases of the p^Tamids the tubuli collect into smaller conical fasciculi, which are prolonged into the substance of the cortical portion of the kidney, and have interposed between them processes of the vascular structure. In the smaller pyramids the fasciculi separate into their component tubules, which, after a course marked by “ tortuosities, plexuses, convolutions, and dilatations,” terminate, according to Mr. Bowman,* in small round bodies, the corpora JNIalpighiana, or, according to Krause and the recent investigations of Mr. To3'nbee,t by anastomoses and csecal ex- tremities. The average diameter of the tubuli uriniferi in the cortical portion of the kidney is the -g-i-p of an inch, of which about two-thirds are occupied by a nucleated epithelium, the remaining third represent- ing the area of the tube. According to Mr. Bowman, the epithelium is ciliated in that part of the tubule which is near the Malpighian body, and which, according to the same authority, is very much con- stricted. In the cortical portion of the kidney are contained a multitude of minute, red, globular bodies, the corpora Malpighiana, or glomeruli. Each iMalpighian body, about of an inch in diameter, is composed of a plexus of capillary vessels, and, in addition, according to Mr. Tojmbee, of a coil of an uriniferous tubule j the tuft of capillaries and the coil of the tubule being both enclosed in a thin, membranous cap- side. According to Mr. Bowman, the capsule of the Malpighian bodj' is the origin of the uriniferous tubule expanded into a globular form for the reception of the capillary tuft. The capillary vessels of the vascular tuft are arranged in loops closely packed together, and sur- roimded by an epithelium which is continuous with a similar struc- ture lining the inner surface of the capsule. They are derived from a small arterj', which, after piercing the capsule, immediately divides in a radiated manner into several branches. From the interior of this little vascular ball a vein proceeds, smaller than the corresponding arterj', and pierces the capsule close by the arterv, to comniunicate with the efferent vessels of other Malpighian bodies and constitute a venous plexus. The cones or mamillary processes of the interior of the kidney are invested by mucous membrane, which is continuous at their apices * On the Structure and Use of the Malpighian Bodies of the Kidney. Philo- sophical Transactions, 1842. t On the intimate Structure of the Human Kidney, &c. Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xxix., 1846.