463 BRACHIAL PLEXUS. The posterior branches of the fourth, fifth, si.xtli, seventli, and eighth nerves pass inwards between the muscles of the back in the cervical and upper part of the dorsiil region, and reaching the sui-face near the middle line, are reflected outwards, to be distributed to the integu- ment. The fourth and fifth are nearly transverse in their course, and lie between the semispinalis colli and complexus. The sixth, seventh, and eighth are directed nearly vertically downwards; they pierce the aponeurosis of origin of the splenius and trapezius. Posterior cervical plexus.—This ^plexus is constituted by the succession of anastomosing loops and communications which pass be- tween the posterior branches of the first, second, and third cervical nerves. It is situated between the complexus and semispinalis colli, and its branches are the— Musculo-cutaneous, Occipitalis major. The Musculo-cutaneous branches pass inwards between the com- plexus and semispinalis colli to the ligamentum nuchm, distributing muscular filaments in their course. They then pierce the aponeurosis of the trapezius and become subcutaneous, sending branches outwards to supply the integument of the posterior aspect of the neck, and up- wards to the posterior region of the scalp. The Occipitalis major is the direct continuation of the second cer- vical nerve ; it ascends obliquely inwards, between the obliquus infe- • rior and complexus, pierces the complexus and trapezius after pass- ing for a short distance between them, and ascends on the posterior aspect of the head between the integument and occipito-frontalis, in company with the occipital artery. The occipitalis major sends nu- merous branches to the muscles of the neck, and is distributed to the integument of the scalp, as far forwards as the middle of the vertex of the head. Its filaments communicate with those of the occipitalis minor. BRACHIAL PLEXUS. The Brachial or axillary plexus of nerves is formed by communi- cations between the anterior branches of the last four cervical nerves and first dorsal. These nerves are all similar in size, and their mode of disposition in the formation of the plexus is the following; the fifth and sixth nerves unite to form a common trunk, which soon divides into two branches; the last cervical and first dorsal also unite immedi- ately on their exit from the intervertebral foramina, and the common trunk residting from their union, after a short course, also divides into two branches; the seventh nerve passes outwards between the com- mon trunks of the two preceding, and opposite the clavicle divides into a superior branch which unites with the inferior division of the supe- rior trunk, and an inferior branch which communicates with the supe- rior division of the inferior trunk: from these divisions and communi-