60.5 PROSTATE GLAND. Tlie external surface of the base of the bladder corresponding with :the trigonum, is also triangular, and is separated from the rectum :.merely by a thin layer of fibrous membrane, the recto-vesical fascia. ; It is bounded behind by the recto-vesical fold of peritoneum ; and on each side by the vas deferens and vesicula seminalis, which converge ..almost to a point at the base of the prostate gland. It is through : this space that the opening is made in the recto-vesical operation for puncture of the bladder. PROSTATE GLAND. The prostate gland praeponere) is situated, in front of the 1 neck of the bladder, behind thie deep perineal fascia, and upon the rec- ■ turn, through which latter it may be felt with the finger. It surrounds ; the commencement of the urethra for a little more than an inch of its . extent, and resembles a Spanish chestnut both in size and form ; the ■ base being directed backwards towards the neck of the bladder, the •lapex forwards, and the convex side towards the rectum. It is re- :tained firmly in its position by the two superior and two inferior : tendons of the bladder, by the attachments of the pelvic fascia, and by . a process of the internal layer of the deep perineal fascia, which forms ja sheath around the membranous urethra, and is inserted into the 5 apex of the gland. It consists of three lobes, two lateral and a middle 1 lobe or isthmus; the lateral lobes are distinguished by an indentation : upon the base of the gland, and by a slight furrow upon its upper and 1 lower surface. The third lobe or isthmus is a small transverse band > which passes between the two lateral lobes at the base of the organ, i In structure the prostate gland is composed of ramified ducts, termi- I nating in lobules of follicular pouches, which are so closely compressed 3 as to give to a thin section of the gland a cellular appearance. It is : pale in colour and hard in texture, splits easily in the course of its ’ ducts, and is surrounded by a plexus of veins which are enclosed by : the strong fibrous membrane with which it is invested. Its secretion I is poured into the prostatic portion of the urethra by fifteen or twenty I excretory ducts. The urethra in passing through the prostate lies ( one-third nearer its upper than its lower surface. VESICUL.® SEMINALES. On the under surface of the base of the bladder, and converging to- ’ wards the base of the prostate gland, are two lobulated and somewhat j pyriform bodies, about two inches in length, the vesiculae seminales. Their upper surface is in contact with the base of the bladder ; the I imder side rests on the rectum, separated only by the recto-vesical I fescia ; the larger extremities are directed backwards and outwards, I and the smaller ends almost meet at the base of the prostate. They t enclose between them a triangular space, which is bounded posteriorly