INFERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. 50 Inferior maxillary Bone.—The lower jaw is the arch of bone which contains the inferior teeth; it is divisible into a horizontal portion or body, and a perpendicular portion, the ramus, at each side. Upon the external surface of the body of the bone, at the middle line, and extending from between the two first incisor teeth to the chin, is a slight ridge, crista mentalis, which indicates the point of conjunction of the lateral halves of the bone in the young subject, the symphysis. Immediately external to this ridge is a depression which gives origin to the depressor labii inferioris muscle; and, corresponding with the root of the lateral incisor tooth, another depression, the incisive fossa, for the levator labii inferioris. Further outwards is an oblique opening, the mental foramen, for the exit of the inferior dental nerve and artery; and below this foramen is the commencement of an oblique ridge which runs upwards and outwards to the base of the coronoid process and gives attachment to the depressor anguli oris, platysma myoides, and buccinator muscle. Near the posterior part of this surface is a rough impression made by the masseter muscle; and immediately in front of this impression, a groove may occasionally be seen for the facial artery. The projecting tuberosity at the poste- rior extremity of the lower jaw, at the point where the body and ramus meet, is the angle. Upon the internal surfaee of the body of the bone, at the sjunphysis, are two small pointed tubercles; immediately beneath these, two other tubercles, less marked and pointed; beneath them a ridge, and beneath the ridge two rough depressions of some size. These four points give attachment, from above downwards, to the genio-hyo-glossi, genio- hjmidei, part of the mylo-hyoidei, and to the digastric muscles. Running outwards into the body of the bone from the above ridge is a prominent line, the mylo-hyoidean ridge, which gives attachment to the mylo-hyoi- deus muscle, and by its extremity to the pterygo-maxillary ligament and superior constrictor muscle. Immediately above the ridge, and by the side of the symphysis, is a smooth concave surface, which cor- responds with the sublingual gland ; and below the ridge, and more externally, a deeper fossa for the submaxillary gland. The superior border of the body of the bone is the alveolar process, furnished in the adult with alveoli for sixteen teeth. The hiferior border or base is rounded and smooth; thick and everted in front to form the chin, and thin behind where it merges into the angle of the bone. The ramus is a strong square-shaped process, differing in direc- tion at various periods of life; thus, in the foetus and infant, it is almost parallel with the bod}'; in youth it is oblique, and it gradu- ally approaches the vertical direction until manhood ; in old age, after the loss of the teeth, it again declines and assumes the oblique direction. Upon its external surface it is rough, for the attachment of the masseter muscle; and at the junction of its posterior border with the body of the bone is a rough tuberosity, the angle of the