129 LIGAMENTS OF THE RIBS. separates the anterior from the posterior branch of the intercostal nerve. The middle costo-transverse ligament is a very strong interosseous ligament passing directly between the posterior surface of the neck of the rib, and the transverse process against which it rests. The posterior costo-transverse ligament is a small but strong fascicu- lus, passing obliquely from the tubercle of the rib, to the apex of the transverse process. The articulation between the tubercle of the rib and the transverse process is provided with a small synovial mem- brane. There is no anterior costo-transverse ligament to the first rib ; and only rudimentary posterior costo-transverse ligaments to the eleventh and twelfth ribs. Actions.—The movements permitted by the articulations of the ribs are upwards and doum- wards, and slightly forwards and bachvards; the movement increasing in extent from the head to the extremity of the rib. The forward and back- ward movement is very trifling in the seven superior, but great- er in the inferior ribs; the eleventh and twelfth are very movable. 7. Articulation of the Ribs •with the Sternum, and with each other.—The ligaments of the costo-stemal articulations are,— Anterior costo-stemal. Posterior costo-stemal, Superior costo-stemal, Inferior costo-stemal. Synovial membranes. The anterior costo-sternal ligament is a thin band of ligamentous fibres, that passes in a radiated direction from the extremity of the costal cartilage to the anterior surface of the sternum, and intermingles its fibres with those of the ligament of the opposite side and with the tendinous fibres of origin of the pectoralis major muscle. The posterior costo-stemal ligament is much smaller than the ante- rior, and consists of a thin fasciculus of fibres situated on the posterior surface of the articulation. • A posterior view of a part of the thoracic portion of the vertebral column, shewing the ligaments connecting the vertebrte with each other and the ribs with the vertebrte. 1, 1. The supra-spinous ligament. 2, 2. The ligamenta subflava, connecting the laminse. 3. The anterior costo-transverse ligament. 4. The posterior costo-transverse ligaments. K