108 MUSCLES OF THE l'IIARY»\’X. tongue into two portions, one transverse, which passes transversel}'' inwards between the two portions of the liyo-glossus, and is lost among the transverse fibres of the subsdince of the tongue, and an- other longitudinal, which spreads out upon the side of the tongue, and is prolonged forwards as far as its tip. Professor Hyrtl of Prague has described a fasciculus of this muscle arising from the outer side of the styloid muscle and inserted into the cartilage of the meatus auris, under the name of siylo-auricularis. He states that this muscle occurs in one of every six bodies. Relations.—By its external surface with the internal pterygoid muscle, the gustatory nerve, the parotid gland, sublingual gland, and the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. By its intermd sur- face with the tonsil, the superior constrictor muscle of the pharynx, and the hyo-glossus muscle. The Palato-ulossus passes between the soft palate and the side of the base of the tongue, forming a projection of the mucous mem- brane, which is called the anterior pillar of the soft palate. Its fibres are lost superiorly among the muscular fibres of the palato-pharyngeus, and inferiorly among the fibres of the stylo-glossus upon the side of the tongue. This muscle with its fellow constitutes the constrictor isthmi faucium. Actions.—The genio-hyo-glossus muscle effects several movements of the tongue, as might be expected from its extent. When the tongue is steadied and pointed by the other muscles, the posterior fibres of the genio-hyo-glossus would dart it from the mouth, while its anterior fibres would restore it to its original position. The whole length of the muscle acting upon the tongue, would render it concave along the middle line, and form a channel for the current of fluid towards the phatynx, as in sucking. The apex of the tongue is directed to the roof of the mouth, and rendered convex from before backwards by the linguales. The hyo-glossi, by drawing down the sides of the tongue, render it convex along the middle line. It is drawn upwards at its base by the palato-glossi, and backwards or to either side by the stylo- glossi. Thus the whole of the complicated movements of the tongue may be explained, by reasoning upon the direction of the fibres of the muscles, and their probable actions. The palato-glossi muscles, as- sisted by the uvula, have the power of closing the fauces completelj', an action which takes place in deglutition. Fifth Group.—Muscles of the Pharynx. Constrictor inferior. Constrictor medius. Constrictor superior, Stylo-pharyngeus, Palato-pharyngeus. Dissection.—To dissect the pharynx, the trachea and (esophagus are to be cut through at the lower part' of the neck, and drawn up- wards by dividing the loose areolar tissue which connects the pharynx