282 ILIAC FASCIA.—PELVIC FASCIA, Direct inguinal hernia differs from oblique in never attaining tlie same bulk, in consequence of the resisting nature of the conjoined tendon of the internal oldique and transversalis and of the transversalis fascia; in its direction, having a tendency to protrude from the middle line rather than towards it. Thirdly, in making for itself a new pas- sage through the abdominal parietes, instead of following a natural channel; and fourthly, in the relation of the neck of its sac to the epigastric artery; that vessel lying to the outer side of the opening of the sac of direct hernia, and to the inner side of that of oblique hernia. All the forms of inguinal hernia are designated scrotal, when they have descended into that cavity. The Fascia iliaca is the aponeurotic investment of the psoas and iliacus muscles; and, like the fascia transversalis, is thick below, and becomes gradually thinner as it ascends. It is attached superiorly along the edge of the psoas, to the anterior lamella of the aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle, to the ligamentum arcuatum internum, and to the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae, leaving arches corresponding with the constricted portions of the -vertebrae for the passage of the lumbar vessels. Lower down it passes beneath the external iliac vessels, and is attached along the margin of the true pelvis; externally, it is con- nected to the crest of the ilium; and, inferiorly, to the outer two-thirds of Poupart’s ligament, where it is continuous with the fascia trans- versalis. Passing beneath Poupart’s ligament, it surrounds the psoas and iliacus muscles to their termination, and beneath the inner third of the femoral arch forms the posterior segment of the sheath of the femoral vessels. The Fascia pelvicaIs attached to the inner surface of the os pubis and along the margin of the brim of the pelvis, where it is continuous with the iliac fascia. From this extensive origin it descends into the pelvis, and divides into two layers, the pelvic and obturator. The pelvic layer or fascia, when traced from the internal surface of the os pubis near the symphysis, is seen to be reflected inwards to the neck of the bladder, so as to form the anterior vesical ligaments. Traced backwai'ds, it passes between the sacral plexus of nerves, and the internal iliac vessels, and is attached to the anterior surface of the sacrum ; and, followed from the sides of the pelvis, it descends to the base of the bladder and divides into three layers, one ascending, is re- flected upon the side of that viscus, encloses the vesical plexus of veins, and forms the lateral ligaments of the bladder. A middle layer passes inwards between the base of the bladder and the upper surface of the rectum, and is named by Mr. Tyrrell the recto-vesical fascia; and an inferior layer passes behind the rectum, and, with the layer of the op- posite side, completely invests that intestine. The obturator fascia passes directly do^rawards from the splitting of the layers of the pelvic fascia, and covers in the obturator intemus muscle and the internal pudic vessels and nerve ; it is attached to the ramus of the os pubis and ischium in front, and below to the felcifonn