FIBULA. 99 head of the fibula ; and upon the posterior part of the internal tubero- sity a depression, for the insertion of the tendon of the semimembra- nosus muscle. The shaft of the tibia presents three surfaces; internal, which is subcutaneous and superficial; external, which is concave and marked by a sharp ridge, for the insertion of the interosseous membrane; and posterior, grooved, for the attachment of muscles. Near the upper extremity of the posterior surface is an oblique ridge, ihepopliteal line, for the attachment of the fascia of the popliteus muscle; and imme- diately below the oblique line, the nutritious canal, which is directed downwards. The inferior extremity of the bone is somewhat quadrilateral, and is prolonged on its inner side into a large process, the internal malleolus. Behind the internal malleolus,is a broad and shallow groove, for lodging the tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum; and farther outwards another groove, for the tendon of the flexor longus poUicis. Upon the outer side the surface is concave and triangular, rough above, for the attachment of the interosseous ligament; and smooth below, to articulate with the fibula. Upon the extremity of the bone is a triangular smooth surface, for articulating with the astragalus. Development.—By three centres; one for the shaft, and one for each extremity. Ossification commences in the tibia, immediately after the femur; the centre for the head of the bone appears soon after birth, and that for the lower extremity during the second year; the latter is the first to join the diaphysis. The bone is not complete until near the twenty-fifth year. Two occasional centres have some- times been found in the tibia, one in the tubercle, the other in the in- ternal malleolus. Articulations.—With three bones; femur, fibula, and astragalus. Attachment of Museles.—To ten; by the internal tuberosity, to the sartorius, gracilis, semitendinosus, and semimembranosus; by the ex- ternal tuberosity, to the tibialis anticus and extensor longus digitorum; by the tubercle, to the ligamentum patellae ; by the external surface of the shaft, to the tibialis anticus; and by the posterior surface, to the popliteus, soleus, flexor longus digitorum, and tibialis posticus. Fibula.—The fibula a brooch, from its resemblance, in conjunction with the tibia, to the pin of an ancient brooch) is the outer and smaller bone of the leg; it is long and slender in figure, prismoid in shape, and, like other long bones, is divisible into a shaft and two extremities. The superior extremity or head is thick and large, and depressed upon the upper paid by a concave surface, which articulates with the external tuberosity of the tibia. Externally to this surface is a thick and rough prominence, for the attachment of the external lateral liga- ment of the knee-joint, terminated behind by a styloid process, for the insertion of the tendon of the biceps.