409 DURA MATER.—PROCESSK.S. with dark blood, and passing from behind forwards to open into the superior longitudinal sinus; and the firm connection, by means of these veins and the Pacchionian bodies, between the opposed surfaces of the arachnoid membrane. If he separate these adhesions with his scalpel, he will see a vertical layer of dura mater descending between the hemispheres; and if he draw one side of the brain a little outwards, he will be enabled to perceive the extent of the process of membrane, which is called the falx cerebri. The processes of dura mater which are sent inwards towards the in- terior of the skull, are the falx cerebH, tentorium cerebelli, and falx carebelU. The Falx cerebri (falx, a sickle), so named from its sickle-like ap- pearance, narrow in front, broad behind, and forming a sharp curved edge below, is attached in front to the crista galli process of the ethmoid bone, and behind to the tentorium cerebelli. The Tentorium cerebelli (tentorium, a tent) is a roof of dura mater, throT^m across the cerebellum and attached at each side to the mar- gin of the petrous portion of the temporal bone ; behind, to the trans- verse ridge of the occipital bone, which lodges the lateral sinuses ; and to the clinoid processes in front. It supports the posterior lobes of the cerebrum and prevents their pressure* on the cerebellum, leaving only a small opening anteriorly, for the transmission of the crura cerebri. The Falx cerebelli is a small process, generally double, attached to the vertical ridge of the occipital bone beneath the lateral sinus, and to the tentorium. It is received into the indentation between the two hemispheres of the cerebellum. The layers of the dura mater separate in several situations, so as to form irregular channels which receive the venous blood. These are the sinuses of the dura mater, which have been described at page 370. The student cannot see the tentorium and falx cerebelli until the brain is removed; but he should consider the attachments of the for- mer on the dried skull, for he will have to incise it in the removal of the brain. He should now proceed to that operation, for which pur- pose the dura mater is to be incised all round, on a level with the sec- tion through the skull, and the scissors are to be carried deeply be- tween the hemispheres of the brain in front, to cut through the ante- rior part of the falx ; then draw the dura mater backwards, and leave it hanging by its attachment to the tentorium. Raise the anterior lobes of the hrain carefully with the hand, and lift the olfactory bulbs from the cribriform fossae with the handle of the scalpel. Then cut across the two optic nerves and internal carotid arteries. Next divide the infundibulum and third nerves, and carry the knife along the mar- gin of the petrous bone at each side, so as to divide the tentorium * In leaping animals, as the feline and canine genera, the tentorium forms a bony tent.