LINGUAL ARTERY. 303 Branches.—Hyoid, Superior laryngeal, Inferior laryngeal, Muscidar. The Hyoid branch passes forwards beneath the thyro-hyoideus, and •is distributed to the depressor muscles of the os hyoides near their insertion. The Superior laryngeal pierces the thyro-hyoidean membrane, in company with the superior laryngeal nerve, and supplies the mucous : membrane and muscles of the lai’jmx, sending a branch upwards to the epiglottis. The Inferior laryngeal is a small branch which crosses the crico- : thyroidean membrane along the lower border of the thyroid cartilage. ■ It sends branches through the membrane to supply the mucous lining of the larynx, and inosculates with its fellow of the opposite side. The Muscidar branches are distributed to the depressor muscles of : the os hyoides and larynx. One of these branches crosses the sheath of the common carotid to the mider surface of the sterno-mastoid L muscle. 2. The Lingual artery ascends obliquely from its origin, it then passes forwards parallel with the great comu of the os hyoides ; thirdly, it ascends to the under surface of the tongue ; and, fourthly, runs forward in a serpentine direction to its tip (under the name of the ranine artery), where it terminates by inosculating with its fellow of the opposite side. Relations.—The first part of its course rests upon the middle con- • stricter muscle of the pharynx, being covered in by the tendon of the ; digastricus and the stylo-hyoid muscle ; the second is situated be- tween the middle constrictor and hyo-glossus muscle, the latter sepa- ■ rating it from the hypoglossal nerve ; in the third part of its course it lies between the hyo-glossusrand genio-hyo-glossus ; and in the fourth , (ranine) rests upon the lingualis to the tip of the tongue. Branches.—Hyoid, Dorsalis linguae, Sublingual. The Hyoid branch runs along the upper border of the os hyoides, ■land is distributed to the elevator muscles of the os hyoides near their 0 origin, inosculating with its fellow of the opposite side. The Dorsalis Ungues ascends along the posterior border of the hyo- r glossus muscle to the dorsum of the tongue, and is distributed to the t tongue, the fauces, and epiglottis, anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side. The Siddingual branch, sometimes considered as a branch of bifurca- • tion of the lingual, runs along the anterior border of the hyo-glossus, land is distributed to the sublingual gland and to the muscles of the