OBLIQUUS INTERNUS ABDOMINIS. 213 The pouch of inguinal hernia, in passing through this opening, re- ceives the inter-columnar fascia as one of its coverings. Jielatio?is.—By its external surface with the superficial fascia and integument, and with the cutaneous vessels and nerves, particularly the superficial epigastric and superficial circuinflexa ilii vessels. It is generally overlapped posteriorly by the latissimus dorsi. By its internal surface with the internal oblique, the lower part of the eight inferior ribs and intercostal muscles, the cremaster, the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. The upper border of the external oblique is continuous with the pectoralis major. The external oblique is now to be removed by making an incision across the ribs, just below its origin, to its posterior border ; and an- other along Poupart’s ligament and the crest of the ilium. Poupart’s ligament should be left entire, as it gives attacliment to the next muscles. The muscle may then be turned forwards towards the linea alba, or removed altogether. Tlie Internal oblique muscle (obliquus internus abdominis, as- ^cndens), is the middle flat muscle of the abdomen. It arises from the outer half of Poupart’s ligament, from the middle of the crest of the ilium for two-thirds of its length, and by a thin aponeurosis from the spinous processes of the lumbar vertebrae. Its fibres diverge from their origin, so that those from Poupart’s ligament curve downwards, those from the anterior part of the crest of the ilium pass transversely, and the rest ascend obliquely. The muscle is inserted into the pecti- neal line and crest of the os pubis, linea alba, and lower borders of the five inferior ribs. Along the upper three-fourths of the linea semilunaris, the aponeu- rosis of the internal oblique separates into two lamellae, which pass one in front and the other behind the rectus muscle to the linea alba, where they are inserted ; along the lower fourth, the aponeurosis passes altogether in front of the rectus without separation. The two layers, which thus enclose the rectus, form for it a partial sheath. The lowest fibres of the internal oblique are inserted into the pecti- neal line of the os pubis in common with those of the transversalis muscle. Hence the tendon of this insertion is called the conjoined tendon of the internal chlique and transversalis. This structure corre- sponds with the external abdominal ring, and forms a protection to what would otherwise be a weak point in the abdomen. Sometimes the tendon is insufficient to resist the pressure from within, and becomes forced through the external ring; it then fonns the distinctive covering of direct inguinal hernia. The spermatic cord passes beneath the arched border of the internal 1 oblique muscle, between it and Poupart’s ligament. Diming its pas- t sage some fibres are given off from the lower border of the muscle, ■ which accompany the cord downwards to the testicle, and form loops 1 around it: this is the cremaster muscle. In the descent of oblique I inguinal hernia, which travels the same course with the spermatic c cord, the cremaster muscle forms one of its coverings.