()16 FEMALE I'ELVIS. A small convoluted duct, of variable length, is generally connected - with the duct of the epididymis immediately before the commence- ment of the vas deferens. This is the vasculum aberrans of Haller; it is attached to the epididymis by the areolar tissue in which that body is enveloped. Sometimes it becomes dilated towards its extremity, but more frequently retains the same diameter throughout. The Fas deferens may be traced upwards in the course of the seminal fluid, from the globus minor of the epididymis along the posterior part of the spermatic cord, and along the spermatic canal to the internal ab- dominal ring. From the ring it is reflected inwards to the side of the fundus of the bladder, and descends along its posterior surface, crossing the direction of the ureter, to the inner border of the vesicula seminalis. In this situation it becomes somewhat larger in size and convoluted, and terminates at the base of the prostate gland, by uniting with the duct of the vesicula seminalis and constituting the ejaculatory' duct. The ejaculatory duct, which is thus formed by the junction of the duct of the vesicula seminalis with the vas deferens, passes forwards to the anterior extremity of the veru montanum, where it terminates by opening into the prostatic urethra. FEMALE PELVIS. The peculiarities in form of the female pelvis have already been examined with the anatomy of the bones (p. 94). Its lining boundaries are the same with those of the male. The contents are, the bladder, vagina, uterus with its appendages, and the rectum. Some portion of the small intestines also occupies the upper part of its cavity. The Bladder is in relation with the ossa pubis in front, with the uterus behind, from which it is usually separated by a convolution of small intestine, and with the neck of the uterus and vagina beneath. The form of the female bladder corresponds with that of the pelvis, being broad from side to side, and often bulging more on one side than on the other. This is particularly evident after fre- quent parturition. The coats of the bladder are the same as those of the male. The Urethra is about an inch and a half in length, and is lodged in the upper wall of the vagina, in its coimse downwards and forwards, beneath the arch of the os pubis^ to the meatus urinarius. It is lined by mucous membrane, which is disposed in longitudinal folds, and is continuous internally with that of the bladder, and externally with that of the vulva ; the mucous membrane is surrounded by a proper coat of elastic tissue, to which the muscular fibres of the detrusor urinae are attached. It is to the elastic tissue that is due the remark- able dilatability of the female urethra, and its speedy return to its original diameter. The meatus is encircled by a ring of fibrous tis-