RENAL ARTERIES. LUMBAR ARTERIES. 340 The spermatic arteries in the female descend into the pelvis and pass between the two layers of the broad ligaments of the uterus, to be distributed to the ovaries, Fallopian tubes, and round ligaments ; along the latter they are continued to the inguinal canal and labium at each side. They inosculate with the uterine arteries. The Inferior mesenteric artery, smaller than the superior, arises from the abdominal aorta, about two inches below the origin of that vessel, and descends between the layers of the left mesocolon, to the left iliac fossa, where it divides into three branches: Colica sinistra, Sigmoideae, Superior hsemorrhoidal. The Colica sinistra is distributed to the descending colon, and as- cends to inosculate with the colica media. This is the largest arterial inosculation in the body. The SigmoidecB are several large branches which are distributed to the sigmoid flexure of the descending colon. They form arches, and inosculate above with the colica sinistra, and below with the superior hsemorrhoidal artery. The Superior luBmorrlioidal artery is the continuation of the inferior mesenteric. It crosses the ureter and common ihac arterj’’ of the left side, and descends between the two layers of the meso-rectum as far as the middle of the rectum to which it is distributed, anastomosing with the middle and external hsemorrhoidal arteries. The SupRA-RENAL are two small vessels which arise from the aorta immediately above the renal arteries, and are distributed to the supra-renal capsules. They are sometimes branches of the phrenic or of the renal arteries. The Renal arteries (emulgent) are two large trunks given off from the sides of the aorta immediately below the superior mesenteric artery; the right is longer than the left on account of the position of the aorta, and passes behind the vena cava to the kidney of that side. The left is someAvhat higher than the right. They divide into several large branches previously to entering the kidney, and ramify very mi- nutely in its vascular portion. The renal arteries supply several small branches to the supra-renal capsules. The Lumbar arteries correspond with the intercostals in the chest; thej’’ are four or five in number on each side, and curve around the bodies of the lumbar vertebrte beneath the psoas muscles, and di- vide into two branches ; one of which passes backivards between the transverse processes, and is distributed to the vertebrre and spinal cord