STRI'CTURE OF MUSCLE. 1G2 “ In fact,” says Mr. Bowman, “ the primitive fasciculus seems to con- sist of primitive component segments or particles, arranged so as to form, in one sense, fihrillm, and in another sense, discs ; and which of these two may happen to present itself to the observer, will depend on the amount of adhesion, endways or sideways, existing between the segments. Generally, in a recdnt fasciculus, there are transverse striffi, shewing divisions into discs, and longitudinal striae, marking its composition by fibrillae.” Mr. Bomnan has observed that in the substance of the ultimate fibre there exist minute “ oval or circular discs, frequently concave on one or both surfaces, and containing, somewhere near the centre, one, two, or three minute dots or granules.” Occasionally they are seen to present irregularities of form, which Mr. Bowman is inclined4o regard as accidental. They are situated between and are connected with the fibrils, and are distributed in pretty equal numbers through the fibre. These corpuscles are the nuclei of the nucleated cells out of which the muscular fibre was originally developed. From obseiwing. and probably polyhedral from pressure when forming part of an ulti- mate fibre or fasciculus. It measures in diameter of an inch, and is composed of a succession of cells connected by their flat sur- faces. The cells are filled with a transparent substance, which I have termed myoline. The myoline differs in density in different cells, and from this circumstance bestows a peculiarity of character on certain of the cells. For example, when a fibril in its passive state is examined, there will be seen a series of dark oblong bodies separated by light spaces of equal length ; now, the dark bodies are each composed of a pair of cells containing the densest form of myoline, and are hence * Mass of ultimate fibres from the pectoralis major of the human foetus, at nine months. These fibres have been immersed in a solution of tartaric acid, and their “numerous corpuscles, turned in various directions, some presenting nucleoli,” are shewn. From Mr. Bowman’s paper. t These were made on dissections of fresh human muscle, prepared with great care by Mr. Lealand, partner of the eminent optician, Mr. Powell. Fig. 81.» however, that their “ absolute munber is far greater in the adult than in the foetus, while their number, relativel}" to the bulk of the fasciculi, at these two epochs, remains nearly the same,” Mr. Bowman regards it as certain, that. “ “ .. o * ’5 -7 “ during development, and subsequent- i cles are brought into view only -when ^ the muscular fibre is acted upon by a -v solution of “ one of the milder acids, ly, a further and successive deposit of corpuscles” takes place. The corpus- as the citric.” o V o ^ tionsf, the ultimate fibril of animal life is cylindrical when isolated, ' (