535 CHAPTER X. OF THE VISCERA. That part of the science of anatomy which treats of the viscera is named splanchnology, from the Greek words o-orAayX'’®''? viscus, and Xoyo;. The viscera of the human body are situated in the three great internal cavities: cranio-spinal, thorax, and abdomen. The viscera of the cranio-spinal cavity, namely, the brain and spinal cord, with the principal organs of sense, have been already described, in conjunction with the nervous system. The viscera of the chest are : the central organ of circulation, the heart; the organs of respiration, the lungs; and the thymus gland. The abdominal viscera admit of a subdivision into those which properly belong to that cavity, viz., the alimentary canal, liver, pancreas, spleen, kidneys, and supra-renal capsules ; and those of the pelvis : the bladder and internal organs of generation. THORAX. The thorax is the conical cavity, situated at the upper part of the trunk of the body; it is narrow above and broad below, and is bounded by the sternum, six superior costal cartilages, ribs, and inter- costal muscles in front; laterally, by the ribs and intercostal muscles ; and, behind, by the same structures, and by the vertebral column, as low down as the upper border of the last rib and the first lumbar vertebra; superiorly, by the thoracic fascia and first rib ; and in- feriorly, by the diaphragm. This cavity is much deeper on the pos- terior than on the anterior wall, in consequence of the obliquity of the diaphragm, and contains the heart enclosed in its pericardium, with the great vessels; the lungs, with their serous coverings, the pleurae; the oesophagus; some important nerves; and, in the foetus, the thymus gland. THE HEART. The central organ of circulation, the heart, is situated between the two layers of pleura which constitute the mediastinum, and is enclosed in a proper membrane, the pericardium. Pericardium.—The pericardium is a fibro-serous membrane like the dura mater, and resembles that membrane in deriving its serous layer