444 SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. The frontal nerve gives off but one small branch, the supra-irocldeur, which passes inwards above the pulley of the superior oblique muscle, and ascends along the middle line of the forehead, distributing fila- ments to the integument, to the inner angle of the eye and root of the nose, and to the conjunctiva. The Lachrymal nerve, the smallest of the three branches of the ophthalmic, receives a filament from the fourth nerve in the cavernous sinus, and passes outwards along the upper border of the external rectus muscle, and in company with the lachrymal artery, to the lachrymal gland, where it divides ifito two branches. The superior branch passes along the upper surface of the gland and through a foramen in the malar bone, and is distributed upon the temple and cheek, communicating with the subcutaneus malse and facial nerves. The inferior branch supplies the lower surface of the gland and con- junctiva, and terminates in the integument of the upper lid commu- nicating with the facial nerve. The nerve (naso-ciliaris) passes forwards between the two heads of the external rectus muscle, crosses the optic nerve in com- pany with the ophthalmic artery, and enters the anterior ethmoidal foramen immediately above the internal rectus. It then traverses the upper part of the ethmoid bone to the cribriform plate, and passes downwards through the slit-like opening by the side of the crista galli into the nose, where it divides into two branches—an internal branch supplying the mucous membrane near the anterior openings of the nares; and an external branch which passes between the fibro-car- tilages, and is distributed to the integument at the extremity of the nose. The Branches of the nasal nerve within the orbit are, the gangli- onic, ciliary, and infra-trochlear; in the nose it gives off one or two filaments to the anterior ethmoidal cells and frontal sinus. The ganglionic branch passes obliquely forwards to the superior angle of the ciliary ganglion, forming its superior or long root. The ciliary branches are two or three filaments which are given off by the nasal as it crosses the optic nerve. They pierce the posterior part of the sclerotic, and pass between that tunic and the choroid to be distributed to the iris. The infra-trochlear is given off just as the ner^•e is about to enter the anterior ethmoidal foramen. It passes along the superior border of the internal rectus to the inner angle of the e}’e, where it communicates with the supra-trochlear nerve, and supplies the lachry- mal sac, caruncula lachrymalis, conjunctiva, and inner angle of the orbit. The Superior maxillary nerve, larger than the preceding, proceeds from the middle of the Gasserian ganglion; it passes forwards through the foramen rotundum, crosses the spheno-maxillary fossa, and enters the canal in the floor of the orbit, along which it runs to the infra-orbital foramen. Emerging on the face, beneath the levator labii superioris muscle, it divides into a number of branches, which are dis-