PHALANGES. 107 fourth, two dorsal and one plantar interosseous, adductor pollicis and transversus pedis; to the fifth, one dorsal and one plantar interrosseous peroneus brevis, peroneus tertius, adductor minimi digiti, flexor brevis minimi digiti, and transversus pedis. Phalanges.—There are two phalanges in the great toe, and three in the other toes, as in the hand. They are long bones, divisible into a central portion and extremities. The phalanges of the first row are convex above, concave upon the under surface, and compressed from side to side. The posterior ex- tremity has a single concave articular surface, for the head of the metatarsal bone ; and the anterior extremity, a pulley-like surface, for the second phalanx. The second phalanges are short and diminutive, but somewhat broader than those of the first row. The third, or ungual phalanges, including the second phalanx of the great toe, are flattened Irom above downwards, spread out laterally at the base, to articulate with the second row, and at the opposite ex- tremity, to support the nail and the rounded extremity of the toe. Development-—By two centres ; one for the body and one for the metacarpal extremity. Ossification commences in these bones after that in the metatarsus, appearing firstly in the last phalanges, then in the first, and lastly in the middle row. The bones are completed at eighteen. Articulations.—The first row with the metatarsal bones and second phalanges ; the second, of the great toe with the first phalanx, and of the other toes with the first and third phalanges ; and the third, with the second row. Attachment of Muscles.—To twenty-three; to the first phalanges; great toe, the innermost tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum, ab- ductor pollicis, adductor pollicis, flexor brevis pollicis, and transversus pedis ; second toe, first dorsal and first plantar interosseous and lum- bricalis ; third toe, second dorsal and second plantar interosseous and lumbricalis; fourth toe, third dorsal and third plantar interosseous and lumbricalis; fifth toe, fourth dorsal interosseous, abductor minimi digiti, flexor brevis minimi digiti and lumbricalis. Second phalanges; great toe, extensor longus pollicis, and flexor longus pollicis; other toes, one slip of the common tendon of the extensor longus and extensor brevis digitorum, and flexor brevis digitorum. Third phalanges ; two slips of the common tendon of the extensor longus and extensor brevis digitorum, and the flexor longus digitorum. Sesamoid Bones.—These are small osseous masses, developed in those tendons which exert a certain degree of force upon the surface over which they glide, or where, by continued pressure and friction, the tendon would become a source of irritation to neighbouring parts, as to joints. The best example of a sesamoid bone is the patella, de- veloped in the common tendon of the quadriceps extensor, and resting