134 LIGAMENTS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The ligaments connecting the different pieces of the coccyx consist of a few scattered anterior and posterior fibres, and a thin disk of in- terosseous cartilage; they exist only in the young subject, in the adult the pieces become ossified. 4. Between the Ossa Pubis,—The anterior pubic ligament is com- posed of ligamentous fibres, which pass obliquely across the union of the two bones from side to side, and form an interlacement in front of the symphysis. The posterior pvhic ligament consists of a few irregular fibres uniting the pubic bones posteriorly. The superior pubic ligament is a thick band of fibres connecting the angles of the pubic bones superiorly, and filling the inequalities upon the surface of the bones. The sub-pubic ligament is a thick arch of fibres connecting the two bones inferiorly, and forming the upper boundary of the pubic arch. The interosseous fbro-eartilage unites the two surfaces of the pubic bones, in the same manner as the intervertebral substance connects the bodies of the vertebrae. It resembles the intervertebral substance also in being composed of oblique fibres disposed in concentric layers, which are more dense towards the surface than near the centre. It is thick in front, and thin behind. A synovial membrane is sometimes found in the posterior half of the articulation. This articulation becomes movable towards the latter term of preg- nancy, and admits of a slight degree of separation of its surfaces. The obturator ligament or membrane is not a ligament of articula- tion, but simply a fibrous membrane stretched across the obturator foramen. It gives attachment by its surfaces to the two obturator muscles, and leaves a space in the upper part of the foramen, for the passage of the obturator vessels and nerve. The numerous vacuities in the walls of the pelvis, and their closure by ligamentous structures, as in the case of the sacro-ischiatic fissures and obturator foramina, serve to diminish very materially the pressure on the soft parts during the passage of the head of the foetus through the pelvis in parturition. LIGAMENTS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The Ligaments of the upper esctremity may be arranged in the order of the articulations between the different bones ; they ape, the 1. Stemo-clavicular articulation. 2. Scapulo-clavicular articulation. 3. Ligaments of the scapula. 4. Shoulder joint. 5. Elbow joint. 6. "Radio-ulnar articulation. 7. Wrist joint.