116 ADIPOSE TISSUE. Tendon is the collection of parallel fasciculi of fibrous tissue, by means of which muscles are attached to hones. They are constructed on the same principle as ligaments, are usually rounded in their figure, but in some instances are spread out so as to assume a membranous form. In the latter state they are called aponeuroses. Yellow fibrous tissue is known also by the appellation elastic tissue, from one of its more prominent physical properties, a property which permits of its fibres being drawn out to double their length and again returning to their original dimensions. The fibres of elastic tissue are transparent, brittle, flat, or polyhedral in shape, colourless when single, but yellowish in an aggregated form, and considerably thicker (37^ of an inch in diameter) than the fibres of white fibrous tissue. In the construction of their peculiar tissue they communicate with each other by means of short oblique fibres, which unite ^vith adjoining fibres at acute or obtuse angles without any enlargement of the fibre with which they are joined. This circumstance has given rise to the idea of the fibres giving off branches, an expression derived from the division of blood-vessels, and another term borrowed from the same source has been applied to their communication with each other, namely inoscu- lation ; but both these expressions in their literal meaning are incor- rect. When yellow fibrous tissue is cut or tom, the fibres, in conse- quence of their elasticity, become clubbed and curved at the extremity, a striking character of this tissue. The instances of yellow fibrous tissue are ; the ligamenta subflava of the arches of the vertebrae, chordae vocales, thyro-epiglottic liga- ment, crico-thyroidean membrane, the membranous layers connecting the cartilaginous rings of the trachea and bronchial tubes, the capsula propria of the spleen, and the middle coat of arteries. It is also met with around some parts of the alimentary canal, as the oesophagus, cardia, and anus, around the male and female urethra, in the fascia lata, and in the corium of the skin. Red fibrous tissue is also termed contractile tissue, from a peculiar property which it possesses, and which places it physiologically in an intermediate position between white fibrous tissue and muscular fibre. Its fibres are cylindrical, transparent, reddish in hue, and collected into fascicidi. It is met with in the corium of the skin, in the dartos, around the nipple, in the excretory ducts of glands, in the coats of blood-vessels, particularly veins, in the iris, in the intervascular spaces of the erectile tissue of the penis and clitoris, around the urethra, and around the vagina. Adipose Tissue is composed of minute cells, aggregated together in clusters of various size within the areolae of fibro-cellular tissue. The cells of adipose tissue are identical in manner of fomiation with other cells, being developed around nuclei, and increasing in size by the form- ation of fluid in their interior. In adipose cells, this fluid, instead of being albuminous as in other cells, is oleaginous, the oil at first appear- ing in separate globules, which subsequently coalesce into a single drop. The size of adipose cells at their full development is about