376 CEPHALIC VEIN. The Superficial veins of the fore-arm are the— ' Fig 136.* Anterior ulnar vein, Posterior ulnar vein, Basilic vein, Radial vein, Cephalic vein. Median vein. Median basilic. Median cephalic. The yifilerior ulnar vein collects the venous blood from the inner border of the hand, and from the vein of the little-finger, vena salva- tella, and ascends the inner side of the fore-arm to the bend of the elbow, where it becomes the basilic vein. The Posterior ulnar vein, irregu- lar in size, and frequently absent, commences upon the inner border and posterior aspect of the hand, and ascending the fore-arm, termi- nates in front of the inner condj'le, in the anterior ulnar vein. ThePasilic vei?i ((IcunXixos, royal, or principal) ascends from the com- mon ulnar vein formed by the two preceding, along the inner side of the upper arm, and near its middle pierces the fascia ; it then passes upwards to the axilla, and becomes the axillary vein. The Radial vein commences in the large vein of the thumb, on the outer and posterior aspect of the hand, and ascends along the outer border of the fore-arm to the bend of the elbow, where it becomes the cephalic vein. The Cephalic vein {xi<pa,xh, the head) ascends along the outer side * The veins of the fore-arm and bend of the elbow. 1. The radial vein. 2. The cephalic vein. 3. The anterior ulnar vein. 4. The posterior ulnar vein. 5. The trunk formed by their union. 6. The basilic vein, piercing the deep fascia at 7. 9. A communicating branch between the deep veins of the fore-arm and the upper part of the median vein. 10. The median cephalic vein. IL The median basilic. 12. A slight convexity of the deep fascia, formed by the brachial artery. 13. The process of fascia, derived from the tendon of the biceps, which separates the median basilic vein from the brachial artery. 14. The exter- nal cutaneous nerve, piercing the deep fascia, and dividing into two branches, which pass behind the median cephalic vein. 15. The internal cutaneous nerve, dividing into branches, which pass in front of the median basilic vein, 16. The intercosto-humeral cutaneous nerve. 17. The spiral cutaneous nerve, a branch of the musculo-spiral.