114 STRUCTURE OF CARTILAGE. meter), separated from each other by an opaque, subfibrous, intercellular network, the breadth of the cells being considerably greater than that of the intercellular structure. The cells are parent cells, containing others of secondary formation, together with nuclei, nucleoli, granular matter, and oil-globules in greater number than those of true cartilage. The fibres are short, imperfect, loose in texture, and yellowish. The instances of reticular cartilage are, the pinna, epiglottis, and Eustachian tube. Fibrous cartilage is composed of a network of white, glistening fibres collected into fasciculi of various size, and containing in its Fig. 51.* meshes cells and a subfibrous tissue resembling that of reticular cartilage. The fibres of fibrous cartilage are identical with those of fibrous tissue, the cells are large (about y^^th of an inch), as in reti- cular cartilage, and the areolae are variable in dimensions. It is this latter character that constitutes the difference between different fibrous cartilages; some being composed almost entirely of fibres with few and small interstices, as the interarticular cartilages ; while others exhibit large spaces filled with an imperfect fibrous tissue and cells, as the in- tervertebral substance. The fibrous cartilages admit of arrangement into four groups,— namely, interarticular, stratiform, interosseous, and free. The in- stances of interarticular fibrous cartilage (menisci) are those of the lower jaw, sternal and acromial end of the clavicle, wrist, carpus, knee, to which may be added the fibrous cartilages of circumference, glenoid, and cotyloid. The stratiform fibrous cartilages are such as form a thin coating to the grooves on bone through which tendons play. The interosseous fibrous cartilages are the intervertebral sub- stance and symphysis pubis. T!\\e free fibrous cartilages are the tarsal cartilages of the eyelids. * A portion of fibrous cartilage. The section is taken from the symphysis pubis, and magnified 155 times.