CERVICAL PLEXUS. 461 scapulie, posterior scalenus, and splenius muscle, and is covered in by the sterno-mastoid and platysma. The Branches of the cervical plexus may be arranged into three groups, superficial ascending, superficial descending, and deep:— Ascending, Superficial J Descending, {Superficitulis colli, Auricularis magnus. Occipitalis minor, r Acromiales, ^ Claviculares. Deep Communicating branches. Muscular, Communicans noni. Phrenic. The Superficiatis colli is formed by communicating branches from the second and third cervical nerves ; it curves around the posterior border of the stemo-mastoid and crosses obliquely behind the external jugular vein to the anterior border of that muscle, where it divides into an ascending and a descending branch ; the descending hranch is distributed to the integument on the side and front of the neck, as low down as the clavicle ; the ascending hranch passes upwards to the submaxillar}’- region, and divides into four or five filaments, some of which pierce the platysma myoides, and supply the integument as high up as the chin and the lower part of the face, while others form a plexus with the descending branches of the facial nerve beneath the platysma. One or two filaments from this nerve accompany the ex- ternal jugular vein. The Auricidaris niagnm, the largest of the three ascending branches of the cervical plexus, also proceeds from the second and third cervical nerve ; it curves around the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, and ascends upon that muscle, lying parallel with the external jugular vein, to the parotid gland, where it divides into an anterior and a pos- terior branch. The anterior branch is distributed to the integument over the parotid gland, to the gland itself, communicating with the facial nerve, and to the external ear. The posterior branch pierces the parotid gland, and crosses the mastoid process, where it divides into filaments which supply the posterior part of the pinna and the integument of the side of the head. These filaments communicate with the posterior auricular branch of the facial and with the occipitalis minor, Pre- ■viously to its division, the auricularis magnus nerve sends off several facial branches which are distributed to the cheek. The Occipitalis minor avisos from the second cervical nerve; it curves around the posterior border of the stemo-mastoid above the preceding and ascends upon that muscle, parallel with its posterior border, to the lateral and posterior side of the head. It is distributed to the integu- ment and to the muscles of this region, namely, to the occipito-fronta- lis, attollens and attrahens aurem, and communicates with the occipi-