OLFACTORy.—OPTIC. 439 functions of expression and respiration. In consonance with this view he termed them respiratory 7/e>TCt(, and he ga^e to that pai't of the medulla oblongata from which they arise the name of respiratory tract. First pair. Olfactory.—The olfactory nerve arises by three roots ; an inner root from the substantia perforata, a middle root from a papilla of grey matter (caruncula mamillaris), embedded in the anterior lobe, and an external root, which may be traced as a white streak along the fissure of Sylvius into the corpus striatum, where it is continuous with some of the fibres of the anterior commissure. The nen'ous cord formed by the union of these three roots is soft in texture, prismoid in shape, and embedded in a sulcus between two convolutions on the under surface of each anterior lobe of the brain, lying between the pia mater and the arachnoid. As it passes for- wards it increases in breadth and swells at its extremity into an oblong mass of grey and white substance, the hidhus ofactorkis, which rests upon the cribriform lamella of the ethmoid bone. From the under surface of the bulbus olfactorius are given off the nerves which pass through the cribriform foramina and supply the mucous mem- brane of the nares; they are arranged into two groups, an inner group, reddish in colour and soft, which spread out upon the septum narium, and an outer group, whiter and more firm, which descend through bony canals in the outer wall of the nares, and are distri- buted upon the superior and middle turbinated bones. Second pair. Optic.—The optic nerve, a nerve of large size, arises from the corpora geniculata on the posterior and inferior aspect of the thalamus opticus and from the nates. Proceeding from this origin it winds around the crus cerebri as a flattened band, under the name of tractus opticus, and joins with its fellow in front of the tuber cinereum to form the optic commissure (chiasma). The tractus opticus is united with the crus cerebri and tuber cinereum, and is covered in by the pia mater; the commissure is also connected with the tuber cinereum, from which it receives fibres, and the nerve bej'ond the nasal bone. 3. The crista gall! process of the ethmoid bone. 4. The sphenoi- dal sinus of the left side. 5. The selia turcica. 6. The basilai-process of the sphenoid and occipital bones. 7. The posterior opening of the right nares. 8. The opening of the Eustachian tube in the upper part of the phai-ynx. 9. Tlie soft palate divided through its middle. 10. Cut surface of the hard palate. a. The olfactory nen-e. h. Its three roots of origin, c. Its bulb, from which the filaments are seen to proceed which spread out in the substance of the pituitary membrane, d. The nasal nerve, a branch of the ophthalmic nerve descending into the left nares from the anterior foramen of the cribriform plate, and dividing into its external and internal branch, e. The naso-palatine nerve, a branch of the spheno-palatine ganglion, distributing twigs to the mucous membrane of the septum nasi in its course to (/) the anterior palatine foramen, where it forms a small gangliform swelling (Cloquet’s ganglion) by its union with its fellow of the opposite side. g. Branches of the naso-palatine nerve to the palate, h. Posterior palatine nerves, i. The septum nasi.