URETHRA. 609 urethra, namely, those of Co\vper’s glands, the prostate gland, vasa deferentia, and vesicuhe seminales. The elastic fibrous coat varies in thickness in the different parts of the course of the urethra: it is thick in the prostate gland, forms a firm investment for the membranous portion of the canal, and is thin in the spongy portion, where it serves Fig. 190.* • A longitudinal section of the bladder, prostate gland, and penis, shewing the urethra. 1. The urachus attached to the upper part of the fundus of the bladder. 2. The recto-vesical fold of peritoneum, at its point of reflexion from the base of the bladder, upon the anterior surface of the rectum. 3. The open- ing of the right ureter. 4. A slight ridge, formed by the muscle of the ureter, and extending from the termination of the ureter to the commencement of the urethra. This ridge forms the lateral boundary of the trigonum vesicae. 5. The commencement of the urethra; the elevation of mucous membrane imme- diately below the number is the uvula vesicae. The constriction of the bladder at this point is the neck of the bladder. 6. The prostatic portion of- the ure- thra. 7. The prostate gland; the difference of thickness of the gland, above and below the urethra, is shewn. 8. The isthmus, or third lobe of the pros- tate ; immediately beneath which the ejaculatory duct is seen passing. 9. The right vesicula seminalis; the vas deferens is seen to be cut short off, close to its junction -with the ejaculatory duct. 10. The membranous portion of the ure- thra. 11. Cowper's gland of the right side, -with its duct. 12. The bulbous portion of the urethra; throughout the whole length of the urethra of the corpus spongiosum, numerous lacunae are seen. 13. The fossa na<vicularis. 14. The corpus cavemosum, cut somewhat obliquely to the right side, near its lower part. The character of the venous-cellular texture is well shewn. 15. The right crus penis. 16. Near the npper part of the corpus cavemosum, the section has fallen a little to the left of the middle line; a portion of the septum pectiniforme is consequently seen. This figure also indicates the thickness of the fibrous in- vestment of the corpus cavemosum, and its abrapt termination at the base of (17) the glans penis. 18. The lower segment of the glans. 19. The meatus urinarius. 20. The corpus spongiosum. 21. The bulb of the corpus spongi- osum. R R