36'4 I'ULMONAJIV ARTERY. terminal branches at the lower third of the leg, descends to the lower part of the interosseous membrane, and emerges upon the front of the ankle, to supply the dorsum of the foot; or the posterior tibial and plantar arteries are large, and the external plantar is continued be- tween the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle, to be distri- buted to the dorsal surface of the foot. Sometimes the posterior tibial artery is small and thread-like; and the peroneal, after descending to the ankle, curves inwards to the inner malleolus, and divides into the two plantar arteries. If, in this case, the posterior tibial be suffi- ciently large to reach the ankle, it inosculates with the peroneal pre- viousl}'^ to its division. The internal plantar artery sometimes takes the distribution of the external plantar, which is short and diminutive, and the latter not unfrequently replaces a deficient dorsalis pedis. The varieties of arteries are interestirig in the practical application of a knowledge of their principal forms to surgical operations ; in their transcendental anatomy, as illustrating the normal type of distribution in animals ; or, in many cases, as diverticula permitted by Nature, to teach her observers two important principles: —first, in respect to herself, that, however in her means she may indulge in change, the end is never overlooked, and a limb is as surely supplied by a leash of arteries, various in their course, as by those which we are pleased to consider normal in distribution ; and, secondly, with regard to us, that we should ever be keenly alive to what is passing beneath our observation, and ever ready in the most serious operation to deviate from our course and avoid—or give eyes to our knife, that it may see, —the concealed dangers which it is our pride to be able to contend with and vanquish. PULMONARY ARTERY. The pulmonary artery arises from the left side of the base of the right ventricle in front of the origin of the aorta, and ascends oblique!}' to the under surface of the arch of the aorta, where it divides into the right and left pulmonary arteries. In its course upwards and back- wards it inclines to the left side, crossing the commencement of the aorta, and is connected to the under surface of the arch by a thick and impervious cord, the remains of the ductus arteriosus. Relations.—It is enclosed for one-half of its extent by the pericar- dium, and receives the attachment of the fibrous portion of that mem- brane by its upper portion. Behind, it rests against the ascending aorta; on either side is the appendix of the corresponding auricle with a coronary artery; and above, the cardiac ganglion and the remains of the ductus arteriosus. The Right •pulmonary artery passes beneath the arch and behind the ascending aorta, and in the root of the lungs ditudes into three branches for the three lobes. The Left pulmonary artery, rather larger than the right, passes in front of the descending aorta, to the root of the left limg, to which it