INTERNAL PUDIC ARTERY, 345 deep perineal fascia, and runs forward across the transversus perinei muscle, and along the groove between the accelerator urinae and erector penis to the septum scroti, upon which it ramifies under the name of arteria septi. It distributes branches to the scrotum, and to the perineum in its course forwards. One of the latter, larger than the rest, crosses the perineum, resting on the transversus perinei muscle, and is named the transversalis perinei. The Artery of the hvlh is given off from the pudic nearly opposite the opening for the transmission of the urethra; it passes almost trans- versely inwards between the two layers of the deep perineal fascia, and pierces the anterior layer to enter the corpus spongiosum at its bulbous extremity. It is distributed to the corpus spongiosum. Fig. 129.* • Th® arteries of the perineum on the right side the superficial arteries are seen, and on the left the deep. 1. The penis, consisting of corpus spon- giosum and corpus cavemosum. The crus penis on the left side is cut through. 2. The acceleratores urinae muscles, enclosing the bulbous portion of the corpus spongiosum. 3. The erector penis, spread out upon the crus penis of the right side. 4. The anus, surrounded by the sphincter ani muscle. 5. The ramus of the ischium and os pubis. 6. The tuberositv of the ischium. 7. The lesser sacro-ischiatic ligament, attached by its small extremity to the spine of the ischium. 8. The coccyx. 9 The internal pudic artery, crossing the spine of the ischium, and entering the perineum 10. External hsemorrhoidal branches. 11. The superficialis perinei artery’ giving off a small branch, transversalis perinei, upon the transversus peri’ nei muscle. 12. The same artery on the left side cut off. 13. The arterv of the bulb. 14. The two terminal branches of the Internal pudic artery • one is seen entering the divided extremity of the crus penis, the arteiy of the corpus cavemosum; the other, the dorsalis penis, ascends upon the dorsum of the