2 STRUCTURE OF BONE. Bones are divisible into three classes :—Long, fat, and irregular. The Long bones are found principally in the limbs, and consist of a shaft and two extremities. The shaft is cylindrical or prismoid in form, dense and hard in texture, and hollowed in the interior into a medullary canal. The extremities are broad and expanded, to articu- late with adjoining bones; and cellular or cancellous in internal struc- ture. Upon the exterior of the bone are processes and rough surfaces for the attachment of muscles, and foramina for the transmission of vessels and nerves. The character of long bones is, therefore, their general type of structure and their divisibility into a central portion and extremities, and not so much their length; for there are some long bones, as the second phalanges of the toes, which are less than a quarter of an inch in length, and almost equal, and in some instances exceed, in breadth their longitudinal axis. The long bones are, the clavicle, humerus, radius and ulna, femur, tibia and fibula, metacarpal bones, metatarsal, phalanges, and ribs. Flat bones are composed of two layers of dense bone with an inter- mediate cellular structure, and are divisible into surfaces, borders, angles, and processes. They are adapted to inclose cavities; have processes upon their surface for the attachment of muscles; and are perforated by foramina, for the passage of nutrient vessels to their cells, and for the transmission of vessels and nerves. They articulate with long bones by means of smooth surfaces plated with cartilage, and with each other either by fibrous tissue, as at the sjunphysis pubis; or by suture, as in the bones of the skull. The two condensed layers of the bones of the skull are named tables; and the intermediate cellular structure, diplde. The flat bones are the occipital, parietal, frontal, nasal, lachrj’^mal, vomer, sternum, scapulae, and ossa inno- minata. The Irregular bones include all that remain after the long and the flat bones have been selected. The}' are essentially irregular in their form, in some parts flat, in others short and thick. In preceding edi- tions of this work the short and thick bones were made a separate class, under the name of short hones. This subdivision has been found to be disadvantageous, besides being arbitrary, and is, therefore, now omitted. Irregular bones are constructed on the same general princi- ples with other bones; they have an exterior dense, and an interior more or less cellular. The bones of this class are, the temporal, sphe- noid, ethmoid,, superior maxillary, inferior maxillary, palate, inferior turbinated, hyoid, vertebrae, sacrum, coccyx, carpal and tarsal bones, and sesamoid bones, including the patellae. Structure of Bone.—Bone is a dense, compact, and homogeneous sub- stance (basis substance) filled with minute cells (corpuscles of Purk- inje), which are scattered numerously through its structure. The basis substance of bone is subfibrous and obscurely lamellated, the lamellae being concentric in long and parallel in flat bones; it is traversed in all directions, but especially in the longitudinal axis, by branching and inosculating canals (Haversian canals), which give passage to vessels