FEMUR. 96 Fig. 41 * u continuous with the anterior intertrochanteric line ; the middle is con- tainued directly upwards into the- linea quadrat!; and the posterior, broad and strongly marked, ascends to the base of the trochanter major. Towards the lower extremity of the bone the linea aspera divides into two ridges, which descend to the two condyles, and enclose a triangular space upon which rests the popliteal artery. The internal condyloid ridge is less marked than the external, and presents a broad and shallow groove, for the passage of the femoral artery. The nutritious foramen is situated in or near the linea aspera, at about one-third from its upper extremity, and is directed obliquely from below upwards. The lower extremity of the femur is broad and porous, and divided by a smooth depres- sion in front, and by a large fossa (fossa inter- condyloidea) behind, into two condyles. The external condyle is the broadest and most prominent, and the internal the narrow- est and longest; the difference in length de- pending upon the obliquity of the femur, in consequence of the separation of the two bones at their upper extremities by the breadth of the pelvis. The external condyle is marked upon its outer side by a prominent tuberosity, which gives attachment to the external lateral ligament ; and immediately beneath this is the fossa which lodges the tendon of origin of the popliteus. By the internal surface it gives attachment to the anterior crucial ligament of the knee-joint; and by its upper and posterior part, to the external head of the gastrocnemius and to the plantaris. The internal condyle pro- jects upon its inner side into a tuberosity, to which is attached the internal lateral ligament; above this tuberosity, at the extremity of the internal cond3'loid ridge, is a tubercle, for the insertion of the tendon of the adductor magnus; and beneath the tubercle, upon the upper surface of the condj'-le, a depression, from which the internal head of the gastrocnemius arises. The outer .9-1 • Tlie rigit femur, seen upon the anterior aspect. 1. The shaft. 2. The head. 3. The neck. 4. The great trochanter. 5. The anterior intertrochan- teric line. 6. The lesser trochanter. 7. The external condyle. 8. The inter- nal condyle. 9. The tuberosity for the attachment of the external lateral liga- ment. 10. The fossa for the tendon of origin of the popliteus muscle. 11. The tuberosity for the attachment of the internal lateral ligament.