DIRECT INGUINAL HERNIA. ■281 bdoiv by the grooved border of Poupart’s ligament; and at each ex- tremity by one of the abdominal rings, the internal ring at the inner termination, the external ring at the outer extremity. These relations may be more distinctly illustrated by the following plan— Above. Lower borders of internal oblique and transvorsalis muscle. In Front, Behind. Transversalis fascia. Conjoined tendon of internal oblique and transversalis. Below. Grooved border of Poupart’s ligament. There are three * varieties of oblique inguinal hernia :—common ongenital, and encysted. Common oblique lienmia is that which has been described above. Congenital hernia results from the nonclosure of the pouch of peri- toneum carried do\vnwards into the scrotum by the testicle, during its • descent in the foetus. The intestine at some period of life is forced into this canal, and de- scends through it into the tunica vaginalis where it lies in contact with the testicle ; so that congenital hernia has no proper sac, but is con- tained within the tunica vaginalis. The other coverings are the same as those of common inguinal hernia. Encysted hernia (hernia infantilis, of Hey) is that form of protrusion in which the pouch of peritoneum forming the tunica vaginalis, being only partially closed, and remaining open externally to the abdomen, admits of the hernia passing into the scrotum, behind the tunica vagi- nalis. So that the surgeon, in operating upon this variety, requires to divide three layers of serous membrane; the first and second layers being those of the tunica vaginalis; and the third the true sac of the hernia. Direct inguinal hernia has received its name from passing di- rectly through the external abdominal ring, and forcing before it the opposing parietes. This portion of the wall of the abdomen is strength- ened by the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis muscle, which is pressed before the hernia, and forms one of its in- vestments. Its coverings are, the Integument, Superficial fascia, Intercolumnar fascia. Conjoined tendon, Transversalis fascia. Peritoneal sac. * Velpeau describes a fourth in which the protrusion takes place between the edge of the rectus and the umbilical ligament, and then takes the course of the spermatic canal. Aponeurosis of external oblique.