INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY 308 Branches. Maaillary Portion- Tj'mpanic, Inferior dental, Arteria meningea media, Arteria meningea parva. Pterygoid Portion. Deep temporal branches, External pterygoid. Internal pterygoid, Masseteric, Buccal. Pterygo-maxillary Portion. Superior dental, In fra-orbital, Ptery go-palatine, Spheno-palatine, Posterior palatine. Vidian. The Tympanic branch is small, and not likely to be seen in an ordi- nary dissection; it is distributed to the temporo-maxillary articulation and meatus, and passes into the tympanum through the fissura Glaseri. The Inferior dental descends to the dental foramen, and enters the canal of the lower jaw in company with the dental nerve. Opposite the bicuspid teeth it divides into two branches, one of which is conti- nued onwards within the bone as far as the symphysis, to supply the incisor teeth, while the other escapes with the nerve at the mental fo- ramen, and anastomoses with the inferior labial and submental branch of the facial. It supplies the teeth of the lower jaw, sending small branches along the canals in their roots. The Arterii, meningea media ascends behind the temporo-maxillary articulation to the foramen spinosum in the spinous process of the sphenoid bone, and entering the cranium, divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. The anterior branch crosses the great ala of the sphenoid to the groove or canal in the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, and divides into branches, which ramify upon the exter- nal surface of the dura mater, and anastomose with corresponding branches from the opposite side. The posterior branch crosses the squamous portion of the temporal bone, to the posterior part of the dura mater and cranium. The branches of the arteria meningea media are distributed chiefly to the bones of the skuU ; in the middle fossa this artery sends a small branch through the hiatus Fallopii to the fa- cial nerve. The Meningea parva is a small branch which ascends to the fora- men ovale, and passes into the skull to be distributed to the Gasserian ganglion and dura mater. It gives off a twig to the nasal fossae and soft palate. The Muscular branches are distributed, as their names imply, to the five muscles of the maxillary region; temporal branches (temporales profundae) are two in number. The Superior dental artery is given off from the internal maxillary.