571 PHARYNX.—ITS OPENINGS. lobes, which are made up of polyhedral lobules, and these of smaller lobules. The smallest lobule is apparently composed of granules, which are minute cmcal pouches, formed by the dilatation of the extreme ramifi- cations of the ducts. These minute ducts unite to form lobular ducts, ;md the lobular ducts constitute by their union a single excretory duct. The caecal pouches are connected by areolo-fibrous tissue, so as to form a minute lobule; the lobules are held together by a more con- densed areolar’ layer; and the larger lobes are enveloped by a dense areolo-fibrous capsule, which is firmly attached to the deep cervical ' tascia. Fesse/s and Nerves.—The parotid gland is abundantly supplied with arteries by the external carotid; the submaxillary by the facial; and the sublingual by the sublingual branch of the lingual artery. The Nerves of the parotid gland are derived from the auricular branch of the inferior maxillar)’-,from the auricularis magnus, and from the nervi moUes accompanying the external carotid artery. The sub- maxillary gland is supplied by the branches of the submaxillary gan- . glion, and by filaments from the mylo-hyoidean nerve ; and the sub- lingual by filaments from the submaxillary ganglion and gustatory r nerve. PHARYNX. The pharynx the throat) is a musculo-membranous sac, ■ situated upon the cervical portion of the vertebral column, and extend- : ing from the base of the skull to a point corresponding with the cricoid - cartilage in front, and the fifth cendcal vertebra behind. It is com- . posed of mucous membrane, muscles, vessels, and nerves, and is in- vested by a strong fascia, situated between the mucous membrane and muscles, which serves to connect it with the basilar process of the oc- cipital bone and with the petrous portions of the temporal bones. Upon . its anterior part it is incomplete, and has opening into it seven for- amina, viz.— Posterior nares, two, Eustachian tubes, two. Mouth, Larynx, CEsophagus. The Posterior nares are the two large openings at the upper and ffront part of the pharynx. On each side of these openings, and slightly a above the posterior termination of the inferior turbinated bone, is the ; irregular depression in the mucous membrane, marking the entrance of t the Eustachian tube. Beneath the posterior nares is the large opening into the mouth, partly veiled by the soft palate; and, beneath the root of the tongue, the cordiform opening of the larynx. The oesophageal opening is the lower constricted portion of the pharynx.