PNEUMOGASTRIC NERVE. 453 On the right side it passes between the subclavian artery and vein to the posterior mediastinum, then behind the root of the lung to the ujsophagus, which it accompanies to the stomach, lying on its posterior aspect. On the left it enters the chest parallel with the left subclavian artery, crosses the arch of the aorta, and descends behind the root of the lung, and along the anterior surface of the oesophagus to the stomach. The fibres of origin of the pneumogastric nerve, like those of the glosso-pharyngeal, may be traced through the fasciculi of the corpus restiforme into the grey substance of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The Branches of the pneumogastric nerve are the following:— Commimicating branches with the Facial, Glosso-pharyngeal, Spinal accessory. Hypo-glossal, Sympathetic. Auricular, Pharyngeal, Superior laryngeal. Cardiac, Inferior or recurrent laryngeal. Pulmonary anterior, Pulmonary posterior, CEsophageal, Gastric. The Branches of communication form part of the complicated plexus at the base of the skull. The branches to the ganglion of Andersch are given off by the superior ganglion in the jugular fossa. The A uricular nerve is given off from the lower part of the jugu- lar ganglion, or from the trunk of the nerve immediately below it, and receives immediately after its origin a small branch of communication from the glosso-pharyngeal. It then passes outwards behind the jugu- lar vein, and on the outer side of that vessel enters a small canal (page 34) in the petrous portion of the temporal bone near the stylo- mastoid foramen. Guided by this canal it reaches the descending part of the aqueductus Fallopii and joins the facial nerve. In the aque- dnctus Fallopii the auricular nerve gives off two small filaments, one of which communicates with the posterior auricular branch of the facial, while the other is distributed to the pinna. The Pharyngeal nerve arises from the pneumogastric, immediately above the gangliform plexus, and descends behind the internal carotid artery to the upper border of the middle constrictor, upon which it forms the pharyngeal plexus assisted by branches from the glosso- pharyngeal, superior larjmgeal, and sympathetic. The pharyngeal