481 POPLITEAL NERVE. trochanter major and tuberosity of the ischium, and along the posterior part of the thigh to about its lower third, where it divides into two lanje terminal branches, popliteal and peroneal. This division some- times takes place at the plexus, and the two nerves descend together side by side; occasionally they are separated at their commencement by a part or by the whole of the pyrifomiis muscle. The nerve in its course down the thigh rests upon the gemellus superior, tendon of the obturator intemus, gemellus inferior, quadratus femoris, and adductor magnus, and is covered in by the gluteus maximus, biceps, semiten- dinosus, and semimembranosus. The Branches of the great ischiatic nerve, previously to its division, are, muscidar and articular. The 'tmiscular branches are given off from the upper part of the nerve and supply both heads of the biceps, the semi-tendinosus, semi-membranosus, and adductor magnus. The ar- ticular branch descends to the upper part of the external condyle of the femur, and divides into filaments which are distributed to the fibrous capsule and to the synovial membrane of the knee-joint. The Popliteal nerve passes through the middle of the popliteal space, from the division of the great ischiatic nerve to the lower border of the popliteus muscle, accompanies the artery beneath the arch of the soleus, and becomes the posterior tibial nerve. It is superficial in the whole of its course, and lies externally to the vein and arter)'. The Branches of the popliteal nerve are, muscular or sural, articular, and a cutaneous branch, the communicans poplitei. The Muscular branches, of considerable size, and four or five in number, are distributed to the two heads of the gastrocnemius, to the soleus, plantaris, and popliteus. The Articular nerve pierces the ligamentum posticum Winslowii, and supplies the interior of the knee-joint. It usually sends a twig also to the popliteus muscle. The Communicans poplitei (communicans tibialis) is a large nerve which arises from the popliteal at about the middle of its course, and descends between the two heads of the gastrocnemius, and along the groove formed by the two bellies of that muscle. At a variable dis- tance below the articulation of the knee it receives a large branch, the communicans peronei, from the peroneal nerve, and the two together constitute the external saphenous nerve. The External saphenous nerve pierces the deep fascia below the I fleshy part of the gastrocnemius muscle, and continues its course < down the leg, lying along the outer border of the tendo Achillis and i by the side of the external saphenous vein which it accompanies to I the foot. At the lower part of the leg it winds around the outer I malleolus, and is distributed to the outer side of the foot and little t toe, communicating with the external peroneal cutaneous nerve, and I sending numerous filaments to the integument of the heel and sole of tthe foot. I I