84 CUNEIFORME.—TRAPEZIUM. surface will point to the side corresponding with the hand to which the bone belongs. Articulations.—With_^ue bones, but occasionally with only four; by its convex surface, with the radius ; by its concave surface, with the os magnum; by its crescentic lateral facet, with the scaphoid ; and by the circular surface, with the cimeiform bone and with the point of the unciform. This surface is divided into two parts by a ridge when it articulates with the unciform as well as with the cunei- form bone. The CUNEIFORM bone, although somewhat wedge-shaped in form, may be best distinguished by a circular and isolated facet, which arti- culates with the pisiform bone. It presents for examination three sur- faces, a base, and an apex. One surface is very rough and irregular ; the opposite forms a concave articular surface; while the third is partly rough and partly smooth, and presents that circular facet which is characteristic of the bone. The base is an articular surface, and the apex is rough and pointed. To distinguish its appropriate hand, let the base be directed back- wards, and the pisiform facet upwards ; the concave articular surface will point to the hand to which the bone belongs. Articulations With three bones, and with the triangular fibro- cartilage. By the base, with the semilunare ; by the concave surface, with the unciforme; by the circidar facet, with the pisiforme; and by the superior angle of the rough surface, with the fibro-cartilage. The PISIFORM bone maybe recognised by its small size, and by possessing a single articular facet. If it be examined carefully, it will be observed to present four sides and two extremities; one side is articular, the smooth facet approaching nearer to the superior than the inferior extremity. The side opposite to this is roimded, and the remaining sides are, one slightly concave, the other slightly convex. If the bone be held so that the articular facet shall look dowm- wards, and the extremity which overhangs the articular facet for- Avards, the concave side will point to the hand to which it belongs. Articulations.—With the cuneiform bone only. Attachments.—To two muscles, the flexor carpi ulnaris, and abductor minimi digiti; and to the anterior annular ligament. The TRAPEZIUM (os multangulum majus) is too irregular in form to be compared to any known object; it may be distinguished by a deep groove, for the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis muscle. It is some- what compressed, and may be divided into two surfaces Avhich are smooth and articular, and three rough borders. One of the articular surfaces is bval, concave in one direction, and convex in the other (saddle-seat-shaped) ; the other is marked into three facets. One of the borders presents the groove for the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, which is surmounted by a prominent tubercle for the attach- ment of the annular ligament; the otlier two borders are rough and form the outer side of the carpus. The grooved border is narrow at