192 PALATO-GI.OSSUS.—PAI-ATO-PH AR VXOEUS. This muscle must be turned down from its origin on one side, and removed, and the superior constrictor dissected away from its ptery- goid origin, to bring the next muscle into view. The Tensor PALATi (circumflexus) is a slender and flattened muscle ; it arises from the scaphoid fossa at the base of the intejiial pterygoid plate and from the anterior aspect of the Eustachian tube. It descends to the hamular process around which it turns, and expands into a tendinous aponeurosis, which is inserted into the transverse ridge on the horizontal portion of the palate bone, and into the raphe. Relations. — By its external surfaee with the internal pterygoid muscle ; by its internal surface with the levator palati, internal ptery- goid plate, and superior constrictor. In the soft palate, its tendinous expansion is placed in front of the other muscles and in contact with the mucous membrane. The Azygos uvuLiE is not a single muscle, as might be inferred from its name, but a pair of small muscles placed side b)' side in the middle line of the soft palate. They arise from the spine of the palate bone, and are inserted into the uvula. By their anterior sur- face they are connected with the tendinous expansion of the levatores palati, and by the posterior with the mucous membrane. The two next muscles are brought into view throughout the whole of their extent, by raising the mucous membrane from off the pillars of the soft palate at each side. The Palato-glossus (constrictor isthmi faucium) is a small fascicu- lus of fibres that arises in the soft palate, and descends to be inserted into the side of the tongue. It is the projection of this small muscle, covered by mucous membrane, that forms the anterior pillar of the soft palate. It has been named constrictor isthmi faucium from a function it performs in common with the palato-pharyngeus, viz. of constricting the opening of the fauces. The Palato-pharyngeus forms the posterior pillar of the fauces ; it arises by an expanded fasciculus from the lower part of the soft palate, where its fibres are continuous with those of the muscle of the opposite side ; and is inserted into the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage. This muscle is broad above where it forms the whole thick- ness of the lower half of the soft palate, narrow in the posterior pillar, and again broad and thin in the pharynx where it spreads out pre- viously to its insertion. Relations. — In the soft palate it is in relation with the mucous membrane both by its anterior and posterior surface ; above, with the muscular layer formed by the levator palati, and beloxo with the mu- cous glands situated along the margin of the arch of the palate. In muscles; the inferior pair, to the genio-hyoidei. 15. The attachment of the mylo-hyoideus of one side and part of the opposite. 16. The anterior attach- ment of the digastric muscles. 17. The depression on the lower jaw corres- ponding with the submaxillary gland. The depression above the mylo-hyoideus, on which the number 15 rests, corresponds with the situation of the sublingual gland.