MUSCLES OF THE GLUTEAL REGION. 254 Relations.—By its superficial surface witli tlie gluteus maximus, the ischiatic vessels and nerves, and internal pudic vessels and nerve. By its deep surface with the pelvis, and capsule of the hip-joint. The OnTUKATOR INTERNUS arises from the inner surface of the an- terior wall of the pelvis, being attached to the margin of bone around the obturator foramen, and to the obturator membrane. It passes out of the pelvis through the lesser sacro-ischiatic foramen, and is inserted by a flattened tendon into the trochanteric fossa of the femur. The lesser sacro-ischiatic notch, over which this muscle plays as through a pulley, is faced with cai'tilage, and provided with a synovial bursa to facilitate its movements. The tendon of the obturator is accompanied by the two gemelli muscles (hence their names), which are inserted into the sides of the tendon, and appear to be auxiliaries or superadded portions of the obturator internus. Relations,—By its superficial or posterior surface with the internal pudic vessels and nerve, the obturator fascia, which separates it from the levator ani and viscera of the pelvis, the sacro-ischiatic ligaments, gluteus maximus, and ischiatic vessels and nerves. By its deep or anterior surface with the obturator membrane and the margin of bone surrounding it, the cartilaginous pulley of the lesser ischiatic foramen, the external surface of the pelvis, and the capsular ligament of the ^ hip-joint. By its uppet border, within the pelvis, with the obturator vessels and nerve; externally to the pelvis, with the gemellus superior. By its lower border with the gemellus inferior. The Gemellus inferior arises from the posterior point of the tuberosity of the ischium, and is inserted into the lower border of the tendon of the obturator internus, and into the trochanteric fossa of the femur. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the gluteus maximus, and ischiatic vessels and nerves. By its deep surface with the ex- ternal surface of the pelvis, and capsule of the hip-joint. By its upper border with the tendon of the obturator internus. B}' its r lower border with the tendon of the obturator extemus and quadratus ^ femoris. In this region the tendon only of the obturator extemus can be seen, it is situated deeply between the gemellus inferior and the tipper border of the quadratns femoris. To expose this muscle fully, it is necessaiy to dissect it on the anterior part of the thigh, after the re- moval of the pectineus, adductor longus and adductor brevis muscles. The Obturator externus muscle (obturare, to stop up) arises from the obturator membrane, and from the surface of bone immedi- ate!}' surrounding it anteriorly, viz. from the ramus of the os pubis and ischium: its tendon passes behind the neck of the femur, to be in- serted with the external rotator muscles, into the trochanteric fossa of the femur. . Relations.—By its superficial or anterior surface with the tendon of the psoas and iliacus, pectineus, adductor brevis and magnus, the obturator vessels and nerve. By its deep or posterior surface with