G02 PELVIS. The cavity of the pelvis is that portion of the great abdominal cavity which is included within the bones of the pelvis, below the level of the linea-ilio-pectinea and the promontory of the sacrum. It is bounded by the cavity of the abdomen above, and by the perineum below; its internal parietes are formed, in front, below, and at the sides, by the peritoneum, pelvic fascia, levatores ani muscles, obturator fasciae, and muscles; and behind, by the sacrum and sacral plexus of nerves. The Viscera of the pelvis in the male are, the urinary bladder, the prostate gland, vesiculae seminales, and the rectum. BLADDER. The Bladder is an oblong membranous viscus of an ovoid shape, situated behind the ossa pubis and in front of the rectum. It is larger in its vertical diameter than from side to side ; and its long axis is directed from above, obliquely downwards and backwards. It is divided into, body, fundus, base, and neck. The body comprehends the middle zone of the organ ; the fundus, its upper segment; the base, the lower broad extremity which rests on the rectum ; and the neek, the narrow constricted portion which is applied against the pros- tate gland. This organ is retained in its place by ligaments, Avhich are divided into true and false : the true ligaments are seven in number, two an- terior, two lateral, two umbilical, and the urachus; the false ligaments are folds of the peritoneum, and are four in number, two anterior and two posterior. The anterior ligaments are formed by the pelvic fascia, which passes from the inner surface of the os pubis, on each side of the symphysis, to the front of the bladder. The lateral ligaments are formed by the reflexion of the pelvic fascia from the levatores ani muscles, upon the sides of the base of the bladder. The umbilical ligaments are the fibrous cords which result from the obliteration of the umbilical arteries of the foetus; they pass forwards on each side of the fundus of the bladder, and ascend beneath the peritoneum to the umbi- licus. The urachus is a small fibrous cord formed by the obliteration of a tubular canal existing in the embryo : it is attached to the apex of the bladder, and thence ascends to the umbilicus. The fahe ligaments are folds of peritoneum; the two lateral correspond vdth the passage of the vasa deferentia from the sides of the bladder to the internal abdo- minal rings, and the two posterior with the course of the umbilical arteries, to the fundus of the organ. The bladder is composed of three coats, an external or serous coat, a muscular, and a mucous coat. The serous coat is partial, and derived from the peritoneum, which invests the posterior surface and sides of the bladder, from about opposite the point of termination of the two ureters to its summit, whence it is guided to the anterior wall of the