ANTERIOR FEMORAL REOION. ■J5G Fig. 106.* process, and is inserted between two layers of the fascia lata at about one-fourth down the thigh. Relations.—Byits suj>erjveial sur- face with the fascia lata and integu- ment. By its deep surface with an internal layer of the fascia lata, gluteus raedius, rectus and vastus externus. By its inner border, near its origin v/ith the sartorius. The Sartorius (tailor’s muscle) is a long riband-like muscle, arisini/ from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and from the notch immediately below that pro- cess ; it crosses obliquely the upper third of the thigh, descends behind the inner condyle of the femur, and is inserted by' an aponeurotic expansion mto the inner tuberosity of the tibia. This expansion covers in the insertion of the tendons of the gracilis and semitendiuosus muscles. The inner border of the sartorius muscle is the guide to the operation for tying the femoral artery in the middle of its course. Relations.—By' its superficial sur- face \vith the fascia lata and some cutaneous nerves. By its deep sur- face Avith the psoas and iliacus, rectus, sheath of the femoral vessels and saphenous nerves, vastus inter- nus, adductor longus, adductor mag- nus, gracilis, long saphenous nerve, internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. By its expanded in- sertion with the tendons of the gracilis and semitendinosus, a syno- vial bursa being interposed. At the knee-joint its posterior border is in relation with the internal saphenous vein. At the upper third of the thigh the sartorius forms, with the lower border of the adductor * The muscles of the anterior femoral region. 1. The crest of the ilium. 2. Its anterior superior spinous process. 3. The gluteus medius. 4. The tensor vaginte femoris ; its insertion into the fascia lata is shewm inferiorly. 5. The sartorius. 6. The rectus. 7. The vastus externus. 8. The vastus intemus. 9. The patella. 10. The iliacus internus. 11. The psoas magnus. 12. The pectineus. 13. The adductor longus. The gracilis. 14. Part of the adductor magnus. 15.