VEINS OF THE TRUNK. The veins of the trunk may be divided into 1. The superior vena cava, with its formative branches. 2. The inferior vena cava, with its formative branches. 3. The azygos veins. 4. The vertebral and spinal veins. 5. The cardiac veins. 6. The portal vein. 7. The pulmonary veins. SUPERIOR VENA CAVA, WITH ITS FOR.MATIVE BRANCHES. V&icB Innominatce. The VencB innominatcB are two large trunks, formed by the union of the internal jugular and subclavian vein, at each side of the root of the neck. The Right vena innominata, about an inch and a quarter in length, lies superficially and externally to the arteria innominata, and descends iilmost vertically to unite with its fellow of the opposite side in the formation of the superior cava. At the junction of the jugular and subclavian veins it receives from behind the ductus lymphaticus dexter, and lower do\vn it has opening into it the right vertebral, right internal mammary and right inferior thyroid vein. The Left vena innominata, considerably longer than the right, ex- tends almost horizontally across the roots of the three great arteries arising from the arch of the aorta, to the right side of the mediasti- num, where it imites with the right vena innominata, to constitute the superior cava. It is in relation in front with the left stemo-clavicular articulation and the first piece of the sternum. At its commencement it receives the thoracic duct which opens into it from behind, and in its course is joined by the left vertebral, left infeiior thyroid, left mammary, and by the superior intercostal vein. It also receives some small veins from the mediastinum and thymus gland. There are no valves in the venm innominatae. SUPERIOR VENA CAVA. The superior cava is a short trunk about three inches in length, formed by the junction of the two venae innominatae. It descends perpendicularly on the right side of the mediastinum, and entering the pericardium terminates in the upper part of the right auricle. It is in relation in front with the thoracic fascia, which separates it from the thymus gland, and wth the pericardium; behind with the right pulmonary artery, and right superior pulmonary vein; internally - with the ascending aorta; eodemally with the right phrenic nerve, and r right lung. Immediately before entering the pericardium it receives • the vena azygos major.