460 CERVICAL NERVES. dorsal are oblique in their direction ; and the lumbar and sacral, verti- cal ; the latter form the large assembhige of nerves, at the termination of the cord, called cauda equina. CERVICAL NERVES. The cervical nerves increase in size from above downwards ; the first (sub-occipital) passes out of the spinal canal between the occipital bone and the atlas ; and the last between the last cervical and first dorsal vertebra. Each nerve, at its escape from the intervertebral foramen, divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. The anterior branches of the four upper cervical nerves form the cervical plexus; the posterior branches, the posterior cervical plexus. Tlie anterior branches of the four inferior cervical together with the first dorsal form the brachial plexus. Anterior cervical nerves.—The anterior branch of the first cervical nerve escapes from the vertebral canal through the groove, up- on the posterior arch of the atlas, which supports the vertebral artery, lying beneath that vessel. It then descends in front of the transverse process of the atlas, sends several twigs to the rectus lateralis and recti antici, and forms an anastomotic loop by communicating with an ascending branch of the second nerve. The anterior branch of the second cervical nerve at its exit from the intervertebral foramen between the atlas and the axis, gives twdgs to the rectus anticus major, scalenus posticus and levator anguli scapulae, and divides into three branches, viz. an ascending branch, which completes the arch of communication with the first nerve ; and two descending branches, which communicate with the third nerve. The anterior branch of the tJiird cervical nerve, double the size of the preceding, divides at its exit from the intervertebral foramen into numerous branches, some of which are distributed to the rectus major, longus colli, and scalenus posticus, while others communicate and form loops and anastomoses with the second and fourth nerve. The anterior branch of the fourth cervical nerve, of the same size with the preceding, sends twigs to the rectus major, longus colli, and levator anguli scapulae, communicates by anastomosis with the third, and sends a small branch downwards to the fifth nerve. Its principal branches pass downwards and outwards across the posterior triangle of the neck, towards the clavicle and acromion. The anterior branches of the fifth, sixth, seventh and ei-gltih cervical nerves will be described with the brachial plexus, of which they form a part. CERVICAL PLEXUS. The cervical plexus is. constituted by the loops of communication, and by the anastomoses which take place between the anterior branches of the first four cervical nerves. The plexus rests upon the levator anguli