167 ORBITAL GROUP. This dissection requires care; for the muscle is very thin, and without attention would be raised with the integument. There is no deep fascia on the face and head, nor is it required; for here the muscles are closely applied against the bones, upon which they depend for support, whilst in the extremities the support is derived from the dense layer of fascia by which they are invested, and which forms for each a dis- tinct sheath. The OcciPiTO-FRONTALis is a broad musculo-aponeurotic layer, which covers the whole of the side of the vertex of the skull, from the occiput to the eyebrow. It arises by tendinous fibres from the outer two-thirds of the superior curved line of the occipital, and from the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. Its insertion takes place by means of the blending of the fibres of its anterior portion with those of the orbicularis palpebrarum, corrugator supercilii, levator labii supe- rioris alaeque nasi, and pyramidalis nasi. The muscle is fleshy in front over the frontal bone and behind over tlie occipital, the two por- tions being connected by a broad aponeurosis. The two muscles together with their aponeurosis cover the whole of the vertex of the skull, hence their designation galea capitis; they are loosely adherent to the pericranium, but very closely to the integument, particularly over the forehead. Relations.—This muscle is in relation by its external surface from before backwards, with the frontal and supra-orbital vessels, the supra-orbitiil and facial nerve, the temporal vessels and nerve, the occipital vessels and nerves, and with the integument, to which it is very closely adherent. Its under surface is attached to the peri- cranium by a loose areolar tissue which admits of considerable move- ment. Action.—To raise the eyebrows, thereby throwing the integument of the forehead into transverse wrinkles. Some persons have the power of moving the entire scalp upon the pericranium by means of these muscles, 2. Orbital group.—Orbicularis palpebrarum, Cornigator supercilii. Tensor tarsi. Dissection.—The dissection of the face is to be effected by con- tinuing the longitudinal incision of the vertex of the previous dissec- tion onwards to the tip of the nose, and thence downwards to the margin of the upper lip; then carry an incision along the margin of the lip to the angle of the mouth, and transversely across the face to the angle of the lower-jaw. Lastly, divide the integument in front of the external ear upwards to the transverse incision which was made for exposing the occipito-frontalis. Dissect the integument and super- ficial fascia carefully from the whole of the region included by tlieso incisions, and the present with the two following groups of muscles will be brought into view. The Orbicularis Palpebrarum is a sphincter muscle, surround-