253 GLUTEUS MEDIUS. By its upper border it overlaps the gluteus medius; and by the lower border forms the lower margin of the nates^. The gluteus maximus must be turned down from its origin, in order to bring the next muscles into view. The Gluteus medius is placed in front of, rather than beneath the gluteus maximus ; and is covered in by a process of the deep fascia, which is very thick and dense. It arises from the outer lip of the crest of the ilium for four-fifths of its length, from the surface of hone between that border and the superior curved line on the dorsum ilii, and from the dense fascia above mentioned. Its fibres converge to the outer part of the trochanter major, into which its tendon is inserted. Relutio7is-—By its superjkial surface with the tensor vaginae femoris, gluteus maximus, and its own proper fascia. By its deep surface with the gluteus minimus, and gluteal vessels and nerves. By its lower border with the pyriformis muscle. A bursa is interposed between its tendon and the upper part of the trochanter major. This muscle should now be removed from its origin and turned down, so as to expose the next which is situated beneath it. The Gluteus minimus is a radiated muscle, arising from the sur- face of the dorsum ilii, between the superior and inferior curved lines ; its fibres converge to the anterior border of the trochanter major, into which it is inserted by means of a rounded tendon. There is no distinct line of separation between the gluteus medius and minimus anteriorly. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the gluteus medius, and gluteal vessels. By its deep surface with the surface of the ilium, the long tendon of the rectus femoris, and the capsule of the hip-joint. A bursa is interposed between the tendon of the muscle and the trochanter. The PvRiFORMis muscle (pyrum, a pear, i. e. pear-shaped) arises from the anterior surface of the sacrum, by little slips which are inter- posed between the first and fourth anterior sacral foramina, and from the adjoining surface of the ilium. It passes out of the pelvis, through the great sacro-ischiatic foramen, and is inserted by a rounded tendon into the trochanteric fossa of the femur. Relations.—Bj' its superficial or external surface with the sacrum and gluteus maximus. By its deep or pelvic surface with the rectum, the sacral plexus of nerves, the branches of the internal iliac artery, the great sacro-ischiatic notch, and the capsule of the hip-joint. By its upper border with the gluteus medius and gluteal vessels and nerves. By its loicer border with the gemellus superior, ischiatic, vessels and nerves, and internal pudic vessels and nerve. The Gemellus superior (gemellus, double, twin,) is a small slip of muscle situated immediately below the pyriformis, it arises from the spine of the ischium, and is inserted into the upper bor- der of the tendon of the obturator internus, and into the trochan- teric fossa of the femur. The gemellus superior is not unfrequently wanting.