474 EXPERNAXv CUTANEOUS NERVE. FifJ- 155.* the transversalis fascia and muscle, communicates with the scrotal branch of tile ilio-Bcrotal nerve, and passes along the spermatic canal with the spermatic cord to be similarly distri- buted. ^ The External cutaneous nerve (inguino-cutaneous) proceeds from the second lumbar nerve. It pierces the posterior fibres of the psoas muscle; and crossing the iliacus obliquely, lying upon ^ the iliac fascia, to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, passes into the thigh beneath Poupart’s ligament. It then pierces the fascia lata at about two inches below the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and divides into two branches, anterior and posterior. The "posterior hranch crosses the tensor vaginal femoris muscle to the outer and posterior side of the * A diagram shewing the lumbar and sacral plexuses, with the nen-es of the lower extremity. 1. ihe five lumbar nerves; which, with a branch from the last dorsal, constitute the lumbar plexus. 2. The four upper sacral nerves ; which, with the last lumbar, form the sacral plex- us. 3. The two musculo-cutaneous nerves, branches of the fiist lumbar nerve. 4. The external cutaneous nerve. 5. The genito- crural nerve. 6. The crural or femoral nerve. 7. Its muscular branches. 8. Its cutaneous branches, middle cutaneous. 9. Its descending or saphenous branches. 10. The short saphenous nerve. 11. The long or internal saphenous. 12. The obturator nerve. 13. The gluteal nerve; a branch of the lumbo-sacral nerve. 14. The internal pudic nerve. 15. The lesser ischiatic nerve. 16. The greater ischiatic nerve. 17. The popliteal nerve. 18. The pero- neal nerve. 19. The muscular branches of the popliteal. 20. The posterior tibial ' nerve; dividing at 21, into the two plan- tar nerves. 22. The external saphenous nerve, formed by the union of the com- municans poplitei and communicans pero- nei. 23. The anterior tibial nerve. 24. The musculo-cutaneous nerve, piercing the deep fascia, and dividing into two cutane-' ous branches, for the supply of the dorsum of the foot.