218 MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. wall of the. sheath terminates in a thin curved margin, the apo- neuroses of the three muscles passing altogether in front of the rectus. The next two muscles can he examined only when the viscera of the abdomen are removed. To see the quadratus lumborum, it is also necessary to divide and draw aside the psoas muscle and the anterior lamella of the aponeurosis of the transversalis. The Quadhatus lumborum muscle is concealed from view bv the^ anterior lamella of the aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle, which is inserted into the bases of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrm. When this lamella is divided, the muscle will be seen arisincf from the last rib, and from the transverse processes of the four upper lumbar vertebra. It is niserted into the crest of the ilium and ilio-lumbar ligament. If the muscle be cut across or removed, the middle lamella of the transversalis will be seen attached to the apices of the transverse processes ; the quadratus being enclosed between the two lamellm as in a sheath. Relations. — Enclosed in the sheath formed by the transversalis muscle, it is. in relation, in front, with the kidney, the colon, the psoas magnus, and the diaphragm. Behind, but also separated by its sheath, with the erector spinse. The Psoas parvus ames from the tendinous arches and iittervertc- bral substance of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebra, and termi- nates in a long slender tendon which expands interiorly and is inserted into the ilio-pectineal line and eminence. The tendon is continuous by its outer border with the iliac fascia. Relations.—It rests upon the psoas magnus, and is covered in by the peritoneum; superiorly it passes beneath the ligamentum arcuatum of the diaphragm. It is occasionally wanting. Diaphragm.—To obtain a good view of this important inspirator}' muscle, the peritoneum should be dissected from its under surface. It is the muscular septum between the thorax and abdomen, and is com- posed of two portions, a greater and a lesser muscle. The greater muscle arises from the ensiform cartilage; from the inner surfaces of the six inferior ribs, indigitating with the transversalis ; and from the ligamentum arcuatum externum and internum. From these points, which form the internal circumference of the trunk, the fibres converge and are inserted into the central tendon. The ligamentum arcuatum externum is the upper border of the an- terior lamella of the aponeurosis of the transversalis : it arches across the origin of the quadratus lumborum muscle, and is attached by one extremity to the base of the transverse process o? the first lumbar vertebra, and by the other to the apex and lower margin of the last rib. The ligamentum arcuatum internum, or 2}roprium, is a tendinous arch thrown across the psoas magnus muscle as it emerges from the chest. It is attached by one extremity to the base of the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra, and by the other is continuous