572 THE STOMACH. Fig. irO.* (Esophaffus.—The oesophagus (a’/ov, to bear, <p«y£/v, to eat) is a slightly flexuous canal, inclining to the left in the neck, to the right in the upper part of the thorax,+ and again to the left in its course through the posterior mediastinum ; it commences at the termination of the pharynx, opposite the lower border of the cricoid cartilage and fifth cervical vertebra, and descends the neck behind and rather to the left of the trachea. It then passes behind the arch of the aorta, and along the posterior mediastinum, lying in front of the thoracic aorta, to the oesophageal opening in the diaphragm, where it enters the ab- domen, and terminates at the car- diac orifice of the stomach at a point about opposite the tenth dor- sal vertebra. The oesophagus is flat- tened and narrow in the cervical region, and cylindrical in the rest of its course; its largest diameter is met with near the lower part of its course. THE STOMACH. The stomach is an expansion of the alimentary canal, situated in the left hypochondriac, and extending into the epigastric region. It is directed somewhat obliquely from above downwards, from left to right, and Irom before backwards; and in the female, where the injurious system of tight-lacing has been pursued, is longer than in the male. On account of the peculiarity of its form, it is divided into a greater or splenic, and a lesser or pyloric, end; a lesser curvature above, and a greater curvature below ; an anterior and a. posterior surface; a car- diac orifice, and a pyloric orifice. The great end is not only of large size, but expands beyond the point of entrance of the oesophagus, and * The pharynx laid open from behind. 1. A section carried transversely through the base of the skuU. 2, 2. The walls of the pharynx drawn to each side. ii, 3. The posterior nares, separated by the vomer. 4. The extremity of the Eustachian tube of one side. 5. The soft palate, 6. The posterior pillar of the soft palate. 7. Its anterior pillar; the tonsil is seen in the niche between the two pillars. 8. The root of the tongue, partly concealed by the uvula. 9. The epiglottis, overhanging (101 the cordiform opening of the larynx. 11. The pos- terior part of the larynx. 12. The opening into the (esophagus. 13. The exter- nal surface of the oesophagus. 14. The trachea. t Cruveiihier remarks that this infle.xion explains the obstruction which a bougie sometimes meets with, in its passage along the oesophagus, opposite the first rib.