78 HUMERUS. coracoid process and body takes place during the fifteenth year; the bone is not complete till manhood. Articulalions.—With the clavicle and humerus. Attachment of Muscles.—To siocteen: by its anterior surface to the subscapularis; posterior surface, supra-spinatus and infra-spinatus; superior border, omo-hyoid ; posterior border, levator anguli scapulm, rhoraboideus minor, rhomboideus major, and serratus magnus; anterior border, long head of the triceps, teres minor, and teres major; upper angle of the glenoid cavity, to the long tendon of the biceps; spine and acromion, to the trapezius and deltoid; coracoid process, to the pectoralis minor, short head, of the biceps, and coraco-brachialis. The ligaments attached to the coracoid process are, the coracoid, coraco-clavicular, and coraco-humeral, and the costo-coracoid mem- brane. Humerus.—The humems is a long bone, and is therefore di\dsible into a shaft and two extremities. The superior eodremity presents a rounded head; a constriction im- mediately around the base of the head, the neck; greater and a lesser tuberosity. The greater tuberosity is situated most externally^ and is separated from the lesser by a vertical furrow, the bicipital groove, which lodges the long tendon of the biceps. The edges of this groove below the head of the bone are raised and rough, and are called the antenor and posterior bicipital ridges; the former serves for the in- sertion of the pectoralis major muscle, and the latter for the insertion of the latissimus dorsi and teres major. The constriction of the bone below the tuberosities is the surgical neck, and is so named, in contradistinction to the true neck, from being the seat of the accident called by surgical writers fracture of the neck of the humerxis. The shaft of the bone is prismoid at its upper part, and flattened from before backwards below. Upon its outer side, at about its middle, is a rough triangular eminence, which gives insertion to the deltoid; and immediately on each side of this eminence is a smooth depression, corresponding with the two heads of the brachialis anticus. Upon the inner side of the middle of the shaft is a ridge, for the at- tachment of the coraco-brachialis muscle ; and behind, an oblique and shallow groove, which lodges the musculo-spiral nerve and superior profunda artery. The foramen for the medullary’ vessels is situated upon the inner surface of the shaft of the bone a little below the coraco-brachial ridge; it is directed downwards. The loiver extremity is flattened from before backwards, and is ter- minated inferiorly by a long articular surface, divided into two parts by an elevated ridge. The external portion of the articular surface is a rounded protuberance, eminentia capitata, which articulates with the cup-shaped depression on the head of the radius; the internal portion is a concave and pulley'-like surface, trochlea, which articulates witli the ulna. Projecting beyond the articular surface on each side are