17G MAXILLARY GROUP. 7. Maxillary Group,—Masseter, Temporalis, Buccinator, Pterygoideus externus, Pterygoideus internus. Dissection.—The masseter has been already exposed by the preced- ing dissection. The Masseter {fjt,ct(T(riioy,a.i, to chew,) is a short, thick, and some- what quadrilateral muscle, composed of two planes of fibres, super- ficial and deep. The superficial layer arises by a strong aponeurosis from the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone, the lower border of the malar bone and the zygoma, and passes backwards to be insei ted into the ramus and angle of the inferior maxilla. The deep layer arises from the posterior part of the zygoma, and passes forwards, to be inserted into the upper half of the ramus. This muscle is tendinous and muscular in its structure. Relations.—By its external surface with the zygomaticus major and risorius Santorini muscle, the parotid gland and Stenon’s duct, the transverse facial artery, the pes anserinus and the integument. By its internal surface with the temporal muscle, the buccinator, from which it is separated by a mass of fat, and with the ramus of the lower jaw. By its posterior border with the parotid gland; and by the anterior border with the facial artery and vein. Dissection.— Make an incision along the upper border of the z}^goma, for the purpose of separating the temporal fascia from its attachment. Then saw through the zy^gomatic process of the malar bone, and through the root of the zj’^goma, near to the meatus audi- torius. Draw do\vn the zygoma, and with it the origin of the mas- seter, and dissect the latter muscle away from the ramus and angle of the inferior maxilla. Now remove the temporal fascia from the rest of its attachment, and the whole of the temporal muscle will be exposed. The Temporal is a broad and radiating muscle occupying a consi- derable extent of the side of the head, and filling the temporal fossa. It is covered in by a very dense fascia (temporal fascia), which is attached along the temporal ridge on the side of the skull, extending from the external angular process of the frontal bone to the mastoid por- tion of the temporal; and inferiorly it is connected to the upper border of the zygoma. The muscle arises by tendinous fibres from the whole length of the temporal ridge, and by muscular fibres from the temporal fascia and entire surface of the temporal fossa. Its fibres converge to a strong and narrow tendon, which is inserted into tlie apex of the coronoid process, and for some way down upon its inner surface. Relations.—By its external surface with the temporal fascia (which separates it from the attollens and attrahens aureni muscle, and the temporal vessels and nerves) and with the zygoma and masseter. By its internal surface with the bones forming the temporal fossa, the exter-