•266 I’OSTKRIOH TIUIAL REGION. space down the middle of the posterior part of the leg to the heel, bounding it interiorly by a transverse incision passing between the two malleoli. Turn aside the flaps of integument and remove the fascim from the whole of this region ; the gastrocnemius muscle will then be exposed. The Gastrocnemius (^ya.ar^ox.rof/AO't^ the bellied part of the leg) arises by two heads from the two condyles of the femur, the inner head being the longest. They unite to form the beautiful muscle so characteristic of this region of the limb. It is inserted, by means of the tendo Achillis, into the lower part of the posterior tuberosity of the os calcis, a synovial bursa being placed between that tendon and the upper part of the tuberosity. The gastrocnemius must be removed from its origin, and turned down, in order to expose the next muscle. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the deep fascia of the leg, which separates it from the external saphenous vein, and with the ex- ternal saphenous nerve. By its fleep surface with the lateral portions of the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, the popliteus, plantaris,and soleus. The internal head of the muscle rests against the posterior surface of the internal condyle of the femur; the external head against the outer side of the external condyle. In the latter a sesamoid bone is sometimes found. The Plantaris (planta, the sole of the foot), an extremelj’’ diminu- tive muscle situated between the gastrocnemius and soleus, arises from the outer condyle of the femur; and is inserted, by its long and deli- cately slender tendon, into the inner side of the posterior tuberosity of the os calcis, by the side of the tendo Achillis ; having crossed ob- liquely between the two muscles. The Soleus (solea, a sole,) is the broad muscle upon which the plantaris rests. It arises from the head and upper third of the fibula, from the oblique line and middle third of the tibia. Its fibres con- verge to the tendo Achillis, by which it is inserted into the posterior tuberosity of the os calcis. Between the fibular and tibial origins of this muscle is a tendinous arch, beneath which the popliteal vessels and nerve pass into the leg. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the gastrocnemius and plantaris. By its deep surface with the intermuscular fascia, which separates it from the flexor longus digitorum, tibialis posticus, flexor longus pollicis, from the posterior tibial vessels and nerve, and from the peroneal vessels. Actions.—The three muscles of the calf draw powerfully on the os calcis, and lift the heel; continuing their action, they raise the entire body. This action is attained by means of a lever of the second power, the fulcrum (the toes) being at one end, the weight (the body supported on the tibia) in the middle, and the power (these muscles) at the other extremity. They are, therefore, the walking muscles, and perform all move- ments that require the support of the whole body from the ground, as