BASE OF THE SKULL. 56 fossEie for the Pcacchionian bodies, and further outwards, digital fossae corresponding with the convexities of the convolutions, and numerous ramified markings for lodging the branches of the arteria meningea media. The LATERAL REGION of the skuU is divisible into three portions ; temporal, mastoid, and zygomatic. The temporal poHion^ or temporal fossa, is bounded above and behind by the temporal ridge, in front by the external angular process of the frontal bone and by the malar bone, and below by the zygoma. It is formed by part of the frontal, great wing of the sphenoid, parietal, squamous portion of the temporal, malar bone, and zygoma, and lodges the temporal muscle with the deep temporal arteries and nerves. The mastoid portion is rough, for the attachment of muscles. Upon its posterior part is the mastoid foramen, and below, the mastoid pro- cess. In front of the mastoid process is the external auditory foramen, surrounded by the external auditory process ; and in front of this foramen the glenoid cavity, bounded above by the middle root of the zygoma and in front by its tubercle. . The zygomatic portion or fossa is the irregular cavity below the zygoma, bounded in front by the superior maxillary bone, internally by the external pterygoid plate, above by part of the great wing of the sphenoid and squamous portion of the temporal bone, and by the temporal fossa, and externally by the zygomatic arch and ramus of the lower jaw. It contains the external pterygoid, with part of the temporal and internal pterygoid muscle, and the internal maxillary artery and inferior maxillary nerve, with their branches. On the inner and upper side of the zygomatic fossa are two fissures, the spheno-maxillary and the pterygo-maxillary. The splieno-maxUlary fissure is horizontal in direction, opens into the orbit, and is situated between the great ala of the sphenoid and the superior maxillary bone. It is completed externally by the malar bone. The pterygo-maxilUiry fissure is vertical, and descends at right angles from the extremity of the preceding. It is situated between the pterygoid process and the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone, and transmits the internal maxillary artery. At the angle of junction of these two fissures is a small space, the spheno-maadllary fossa, bounded by the sphenoid, palate, and superior maxillary bone. In this space are seen the openings of five foramina,—the foramen rotundum, spheno-palatine, pterygo-palatine, posterior palatine, and Vidian. The spheno-maxil- lary fossa lodges Meckel’s ganglion and the termination of the internal maxillary artery. The BASE GF THE SKULL presents an internal or cerebral, and an external or basilar surface. The cerebral surface is divisible into three parts, which are named the anterior, middle, and posterior fossa of the base of the cranium. The anterior fossa is somewhat convex on each side, where it cor- responds with the roofs of the orbits ; and concave in the middle, in the situation of the ethmoid bone and the anterior part of the body of