MUSCLES OF THE HAND. •248 The Flexor ossis metacarpi (.Tclductor, opponens) arises from the unciform bone and annular ligament, and h inserted into the whole length of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the flexor brevis and ab- ductor minimi digiti. By its deep surface with the interossei muscles of the last metacarpal space, the metacarpal bone, and the flexor ten- dons of the little finger. Palmar Region. Lumbricales, Interossei palmares, Interossei dorsales. The Lumbricales, four in number, are accessories to the deep flexor muscle. They arise from the tendons of the deep flexor ; the first and second from the palmar side, the third from the ulnar, and the fourth from the radial side ; and are inserted into the aponeurotic expansion of the extensor tendons on the radial side of the fingers. The third, or that of the tendon of the ring finger, sometimes bifur- cates, otherwise it is inserted wholly into the extensor tendon of the middle finger. Relations.—In the palm of the hand with the flexor tendons; at their insertion with the tendons of the interossei and the metacarpo- phalangeal articulations. The Palmar interossei, three in number, are placed upon the metacarpal bones, rather than between them. They arise from the base of the metacarpal bone of one finger, and are inserted into the base of the first phalanx and aponeurotic expansion of the extensor tendon of the same finger. The first belongs to the index finger; the second, to the ring finger; and the third, to the little finger; the middle finger being omitted. Relations.—By their palmar surface with the flexor tendons and with the deep 'muscles in the palm of the hand. By their dorsal sur- face with the dorsal interossei. On one side with the metacarpal bone, on the other with the corresponding dorsal interosseous. Dorsal interossei.—On turning to the dorsum of the hand, the four dorsal interossei are seen in the four spaces between the metacar- pal bones. They are bipenniform muscles, and arise by two heads, from the adjoining sides of the bases of the metacarpal bones. They are inserted into the base of the first phalanges,'and into the aponeurosis of the extensor tendons. The first is inserted into the index finger, and from its use is called abductor indicis; the second and thu’d are inserted into the middle finger, compensating its exclusion from the palmar group ; the fourth is attached to the ring finger; so that each finger is provided with two interossei, with the exception of the little finger, as may be shewn by means of a table, thus:—