323 AXILLARY ARTERY. BRANCHES. The relations of the axillary artery may be thus arranged ;— In Front, Pectoralis major, Pectoralis minor, Pectoralis major. hifier or Thoracic Side. Outer or Humeral Side. First intercostal muscle. Plexus of nerves. First serration of ratus magnus, Plexus of nerves. ser- Tendon of sub- scapularis, Coraco-biachialis. Branches.—The branches of the Axillary artery are seven in number:— Thoracica acromialis, Superior thoracic. Inferior thoracic, Thoracica axillaris, Subscapular, Circumflex anterior. Circumflex posterior. The thoracica acromialis and superior thoracic are found in the tri- langular space above the pectoralis minor. The inferior thoracic and : thoracica axillaris, below the pectoralis minor. And the three re- smaining branches below the lower border of the subscapularis. The Thoracica acromialis is a short trunk which ascends to the space above the pectoralis minor muscle, and divides into three branches, thoracic, which is distributed to the pectoral muscles and mammary gland ; acronual, which passes outwards to the acromion, and inoscu- lates with branches of the supra-scapular artery ; and descending, which follows the interspace between the deltoid and pectoralis major .muscles, and is in relation with the cephalic vein. The Superior thoracic (short) frequently arises by a common trunk • ivith the preceding ; it runs along the upper border of the pectoralis - ninor, and is distributed to the pectoral muscles and mammary gland, : nosculating with the intercostal and mammary arteries. The Inferior thoracic (long external mammary) descends along the ower border of the pectoralis minor to the side of the chest. It is distributed to the pectoralis major and minor, serratiis magnus, and i ubscapularis muscle, to the axillary glands and mammary gland ; '.nosculating with the superior thoracic, intercostal, and mammary rteries. The Thoracica axillaris is a small branch distributed to the plexus : f nerves and glands in the axilla. It is frequently derived from one f f the other thoracic branches. The Subscapular artery, the largest of the branches of the axillary, :uns along the lower border of the subscapularis muscle, to the inferior : ngle of the scapula, where it inosculates with the posterior scapular, branch of the subclavian. It supplies, in its course, the muscles on he under surface and inferior border of the scapula, and the side of the I