320 INTKHNAI. MAMMAIiy ARTERY. complcxus and senii-spinalis colli muscles. It inosculates above with the princeps cervicis of the occipital artery, and below, by a descending branch, with the posterior scapular. The Superior intercostal artery descends behind the pleura upon the necks of the first two ribs, and inosculates with the first aortic intercostal. It gives off two branches which supply the first two inter- costal spaces. The Internal mammary artery descends by the side of the sternum, resting against the costal cartilages, to the diaphragm; it then pierces the anterior fibres of the diaphragm ; and enters the sheath of the rectus, where it inosculates with the epigastric artery, a branch of the external iliac. In the upper part of its course it is crossed by the phrenic nerve, and lower doivn lies between the triangularis stemi and the internal intercostal muscles. The Brandies of the internal mammary are,— Anterior intercostal, Mammary, Comes nervi phrenici, Mediastinal, Pericardiac, Musculo-phrenic. The Anterior intercostals supply the intercostal muscles of the front of the chest, and inosculate with the aortic intercostal arteries. Each of the first three anterior intercostals gives off a large branch to the mammar}^ gland, which anastomoses freely with the thoracic branches of the axillary artery; the corresponding branches from the remaining intercostals supply the integument and pectoralis major muscle. There are usually two anterior intercostal arteries in each space. The Comes nervi phrenici is a long and slender branch which accom- panies the phrenic nerve. The mediastinal and pericardiac branches are small vessels distri- ^ buted to the anterior mediastinum, the thymus gland, and pericar- dium. The Musculo-phrenic artery winds along the attachment of the dia- phragm to the ribs, supplying that muscle, and sending branches to . the inferior intercostal spaces. “ The mammary arteries,” says Dr. Harrison, “ are remarkable for the number of their inosculations, and for the distant parts of the arterial system which they serve to con- nect. They anastomose with each other, and their inosculations, with the thoracic aorta, encircle the thorax. On the parietes of this cavity their branches connect the axiUary and subclavian arteries; on the diaphragm they form a link in the chain of inosculations between the subclavian artery and abdominal aorta, and in the parietes of the ab- domen they form an anastomosis most remarkable for the distance be-