•241 KXTKNSOK CAllPI RADIALIS. Fig. 102.* The Extensor CARPI radialis ; LONGiOR arises from the external i condj'loid ridge, below the preced- ing, and from the intermuscular fascia. Its tendon passes through : a groove in the radius, immediately ; behind the styloid process, to be uinserted into the base of the meta- ■ carpal bone of the index finger. Relatims. — By its superficial ■ >surface with the supinator longus, ,t extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, k-extensor primi intemodii pollicis, extensor secundi intemodii pollicis, rxadial nerve, fascia of the fore- aarm, and posterior annular liga- lunent. By its deep surface with •. the brachialis anticus,extensor carpi [rradialis bre\uor, radius, and wrist ■ joint. The Extensor carpi radialis 'BREnoR is seen by di-awing aside fthe former muscle. It arises from ::the external condyle of the humerus E ind intermuscular fascia, and is m- lerted into the base of the metacar- pal bone of the middle finger. Its [ ;endon is lodged in the same groove [. )n the radius with that of the ex- '.ensor carpi radialis longior. Relations. — By its superfijcial urface with the extensor carpi ra- i liadis longior, extensor ossis meta- :..arpi pollicis, extensor primi in- eraodii pollicis, extensor secundi [aiternodii pollicis, fascia of the orearm, and posterior annular liga- nent. By its deep surface with the • The superficial layer of muscles of the posterior aspect of the fore-ann. . The lower part of the biceps. 2. Part of the brachialis anticus. 3. The ■ower.part of the triceps, in.sorted into the olecranon. 4. The supinator longus. . The extensor carpi radialis longior. 6. The extensor carpi radialis brevior. . The tendons of insertion of these two muscles. 8. The extensor communis l4igitorum. 9. The extensor minimi digiti. 10. The extensor cai-pi ulnaris. I’l. The anconeus. 12. Part of the flexor carpi ulnaris. 13. The extensor ‘ ssis metacarpi and extensor primi intemodii muscle, lying together. 14. The ■ xtensor secundi intemodii; its tendon is seen crossing the two tendons of the V xtensor carpi radialis longior and brevior. 15. The posterior annular ligament, 'he tendons of the common extensor are seen upon the back of the hand, and I heir mode of distribution on the dorsum of the fingers. R