174 LEVATOR LABll SUPERIORIS. palpebrarum muscle, the facial arterj', and the integument. By its deep surface with the superior maxillary bone, compressor nasi, alar cartilage, and with a muscular fasciculus attached only to the bone, and thence called musculus anomalus. The Levator Labii Supeiuoris Proprius is a thin quadrilateral muscle: it arises from the lower border of the orbit, and passing ob- liquely downwards and inwards, is inserted into the integument of the upper lip, its deep fibres being blended with those of the orbicularis. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the lower segment of the orbicularis palpebrarum, with the facial artery, and with the integu- ment. By its deep surface with the origins of the compressor nasi and levator anguli oris muscle, and with the infra-orbital artery and nerve. The Levator Anguli Oris arises from the canine fossa of the superior maxillary bone, and passes outwards to be inserted into the angle of the mouth, intermingling its fibres with those of the orbicu- laris, zygomatici, and depressor anguli oris. Relations.—By its sujoerficial surface with the levator labii supe- rioris proprius, the branches of the infra-orbital arter}' and nerve, and interiorly with the integument. Bj"^ its deep surface with the superior maxillary bone and buccinator muscle. The Zygomatic muscles are two slender fasciculi of fibres which arise from the malar bone, and are inseided into the angle of the mouth, where they are continuous with the other muscles attached to this part. The zygomaticus minor is situated in front of the major, and is continuous at its insertion "with the levator labii superioris proprius ; it is not unfrequently wanting. Relations.—The zygomaticus major muscle is in relation by its super- ficial surface with the lower segment of the orbicularis palpebrarum above, and the fat of the cheek and integument for the rest of its ex- tent. By its deep surface with the malar bone, the masseter, and buc- cinator muscle, and the facial vessels. The zygomaticus minor being in front of the major, has no relation with the masseter muscle, while inferiorly it rests upon the levator anguli oris. The Depressor Labii Superioris Al.$que Nasi (myrtiformis) is seen b}”^ drawing upwards the upper lip, and raising the mucous membrane. It is a small oval slip of muscle, situated on each side of the fii’senum, arising from the incisive fossa, and passing upwards to be inserted into the upper lip, and into the ala and coliunna of the nose. This muscle is continuous by its outer border with the edge of the compressor nasi. Relations.—its superficial surface with the mucous membrane of the mouth, the orbicularis oris and levator labii superioris alaeque nasi muscle; and by its deep surface with the superior maxillary' bone. Actions.—The orbicularis oris produces the direct closure of the lips by means of its continuity, at the angles of the mouth, with the fibres of the buccinator. When acting singly in the forcible closure of the mouth, the integument is thrown into wrinkles, in consequence of its firm connection with the surface of the muscle. The levator labii