FEMORAL ARTERY. 34.9 the abdominal muscles, and inosculate with the inferior intercostal and with the lumbar arteries. ]'arieties in the branches of the external iliac.—The epigastric artery not unfrequently* gives off the obturator, which descends in contact with the external iliac vein, to the obtiu*ator foramen. In this situa- tion the artery would lie to the outer side of the femoral ring, and would not be endangered in the operation for dividing the stricture of femoral hernia. But occasionally the obturator passes along the free margin of Gimbemat’s ligament in its course to the obturator foramen, and would completely encircle the neck of the hernial sac,—a position in which it could scarcely escape the knife of the operator. In a preparation in my anatomical collection, the branch of communication between the epigastric and obturator arteries is very much enlarged, and takes this dangerous course. FEMORAL ARTERY. Emerging from beneath Poupai't’s ligament, the external iliac artery enters the thigh and becomes the femoral. The femoral artery passes down the inner side of the thigh, from Poupart’s ligament, at a point midway between the anterior superior spinous process of the Uium and the symphysis pubis, to the opening in the adductor magnus, at the junction of the middle with the inferior third of the thigh, where it becomes the popliteal artery. The femoral arterj^ and vein are enclosed in a strong sheath, femo- ral or crural canal., which is formed for the greater part of its extent by aponeurotic and areolar tissue, and by a process of fascia sent inwards from the fascia lata. Near Poupart’s ligament this sheath is much larger than the vessels it contains, and is continuous with the fascia transversalis and iliac fascia. If the sheath be opened at this point, the artery will be seen to be situated in contact with the outer wall of the sheath. The vein lies next the artery, being separated from it by a fibrous septum, and between the vein and the inner wall of the sheath, and divided from the vein by another thin fibrous septum, is a triangular interval, into which the sac is protruded in femoral hernia. This space is occupied in the normal state of the parts by loose areolar tissue, and by lymphatic vessels which pierce the inner wall of the sheath to make their way to a gland, situated in the femoral ring. Relatims.—The upper third of the femoral artery is superficial, being covered only by the integument, inguinal glands, and by the • The proportion in which high division of the obturator artery from the • epigastric occurs, is stated to be one in tliree. In two hundred and fifty subjects ► examined by Cloquet with a view to ascertain how frequently the liigh division took place, he found the obturator arising from the epigastric on both sides one hundred and fifty times; on one side twenty-eight times, and six times it arose : from the femoral artery.