390 LYMPHATICS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. near tlie origin of the occipito-frontalis muscle; posterior aurkvlar^ behind the ear ; parotid^ in the parotid gland; zyyomatic, in the zy- gomatic fossa ; buccal, upon the buccinator muscle ; and sttLmaxiUury, beneath the margin of the lower jaw. There are no deep Ijunphatic glands within the cranium. The Superficial cervical lymphatic glands are few in number and small; they are situated in the course of the external jugular vein, be- tween the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscles, at the root of the neck, and about the larynx. The Deep cervical glands (glandulie concatenate) are numerous and of large size ; they are situated around the internal jugular vein and sheath of the carotid arteries, by the side of the pharynx, oesophagus, and trachea, and extend from the base of the skull to the root of the neck, where they are in communication with the lymphatic vessels and glands of the thorax. The Superficial lymphatic vessels of the head ami face are disposed in three groups ; occipital, which take the course of the occipital vein to the occipital and deep cervical glands ; temporal, which follow the branches of the temporal vein to the parotid and deep cervical glands; and facial, which accompany the facial vein to the submaxillary lym- phatic glands. The Deep lymphatic vessels of the head are the meningeal and cere- hrcd; the former are situated in connection with the meningeal veins, and escape through foramina at the base of the skull, to join the deep , cervical glands. The cerebrcd lymphatics, according to Fohmann, are \ situated on the surface of the pia mater, none having as yet been dis- covered in the substance of the brain. They pass most probably through the foramina at the base of the skull, to terminate in the deep cervical glands. The Deep lymphatic vessels of the face proceed from the nasal fossae, mouth, and pharynx, and terminate in the submaxillary and deep cervical glands. The Superficial and deep cervical lymphatic vessels accompany the jugrdar veins, passing from gland to gland, and at the root of the neck communicate with the thoracic lymphatic vessels, and terminate, on the right side, in the ductus Ijmphaticus dexter, and, on the left, in the thoracic duct, near its termination. LYMPHATICS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The Superficial lymphatic glands of the arm are not more than four or five in number, and of very small size. One or two are situated near the median basilic and cephalic veins, at the bend of the elbow ; and one or two near the basilic vein, on the inner side of the upper arm, immediately above the elbow. The Deep glands in the fore-arm are excessivel}^ small and infre- quent ; two or three may generally be found in the course of the