392 LYMPHATICS OF THE TRUNK. termination, and receiving tlie superficial lymphatic vessels from the lower extremity. The Deep lymphatic glands are the anterior tiliial, jtoplitml, deep in- guinal, gluteal, and iscliiatic. The A nterior tihial is generally a single gland, placed on the inter- osseous membrane, by the side of the anterior tibial artery in the upper part of its course. The Popliteal glands, four or five in number and small, are embedded in the loose areolar tissue and fat of the popliteal space. The Deep inguinal glands, less numerous and smaller than the super- ficial, are situated near the femoral vessels in the groin, beneath the fascia lata. The Gluteal and isehiatic glands are placed near the vessels of that name, above and below the pyriformis muscle at the great isehiatic foramen. The Superficial lymphatic vessels are divisible into two groups, in- ternal and external; the internal and principal group, commencing on the dorsum and inner side of the foot, ascend the leg by the side of the internal saphenous vein, and passing behind the inner condyle of the femur, follow the direction of that vein to the groin, where they join the saphenous group of superficial inguinal glands. The greater part of the efferent vessels from these glands pierce the cribriform fascia of the saphenous opening and the sheath of the femoral vessels, to join the lymphatic gland situated in the femoral ring, which serves to establish a communication between the lymiphatics of the lower extremity and those of the trunk. The other efferent vessels pierce the fascia lata to join the deep glands. The vessels which pass up- wards from the outer side of the dorsum of the foot, ascend along the outer side of the leg, and curve inwards just below the knee, to unite with the lymphatics of the inner side of the thigh.' The eodemal group consists of a few lymphatic vessels which commence on the outer side of the foot and posterior part of the ankle, and accompany' the external saphenous vein to the popliteal region, where they enter the popliteal glands. The Deep lymphatic vessels accompany the deep veins, and com- municate with the various glands in their course. After joining the deep inguinal glands they pass beneath Poupart’s ligament, to com- municate with the numerous glands situated aroimd the iliac vessels. The deep lymphatics of the gluteal region follow the course of the branches of the gluteal and isehiatic arteries. The former join the glands situated on the upper border of the py'riformis muscle, and the latter, after communicating with the lymphatics of the thigh, enter the isehiatic glands. LYMPHATICS OF THE TRUNK. The lymphatics of the trunk may be arranged under three heads, superrficial, deep, and visceral.