MUSCLES OP THE NECK. 179 Dissectioji.—The three small muscles of the ear may be .exposed by removing a square of integument from around the auricula. This operation must be performed with care, otherwise the muscles, which are extremely thin, will be raised Avith the superficial fascia. They are best dissected by commencing with their tendons, and thence pro- ceeding in the course of their radiating fibres. The Attollens aurem (superior auris), the largest of the three, is a thin triangular plane of muscular fibres arising from the edge of the aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis, and inserted into the upper part of the concha. It is in relation by its external surface with the integument, and by the internal with the temporal aponeurosis. The Attrahens aurem (anterior auris), also triangular, arises from the edge of the aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis, and is in- serted into the anterior part of the helix, covering in the anterior and posterior temporal arteries. It is in relation by its external surface with the integument; and by the internal with the temporal aponeurosis and with the temporal artery and veins. The Retrahens aurem (posterior auris), ai-ises by three or four muscular slips from the mastoid process. They are inserted into the posterior surface of the concha. It is in relation by its external surface with the integument, and by its internal surface with the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. Actions.—The muscles of the auricular region possess but little action in man; they are the analogues of important muscles in brutes. Their use is sufficiently explained in their names. MUSCLES OF THE NECK. The muscles of the neck may be arranged into eight groups corres- ponding with the natural divisions of the region ; they are the— 1. Superficial group. 2. Depressors of the os hyoides and larynx. 3. Elevators of the os hyoides and l.arynx. 4. Lingual group. 5. Pharyngeal group. 6. Soft palate group. 7. Praevertebral group. 8. Proper muscles of the larynx. And each of these groups consists of the following muscles :—viz. 1. Superficial G-roup. Platysma myoides, Stemo-cleido-mastoideus. 2. Depressors of the os hyoides and larynx. Sterno-hyoideus, Sterno-thyroideus, Thyro-hyoideus, Omo-hyoideus.