MUSCLES OP THE HACK. 20G dorsal vertebrae, and fire mserled into tlie spinous process of the axis. From its analogy to the spinalis dorsi tliis muscle has been named spinalis colli. It is sometimes wanting. The Interspinales are small muscular slips firranged in pairs and situated between the spinous processes of the vertehrm. In the cer- vical region there are six pairs of these muscles, the first being placed between the axis and third vertebra, and the sixth between the last cervical and first dorsal. In the dorsal region, rudiments of these muscles are occasionally met with between the upper and lower verte- bras, but are absent in the rest. In the lumbar region there are six pairs of interspinales, the first pair occupying the interspinous space between the last dorsal and first lumbfir vertebra, and the hist the space between the fifth lumbar and sacrum. Thej"^ are thin and im- perfectly developed. Rudimentary interspinales are occasionalh* met with between the lower part of the sacrum and the coccyx ; these are the analogues of the caudal muscles of brutes ; in man they have been named collectively the eoctensor coeeygis. The Intertransversales are small quadrilateral muscles situated between the transverse processes of the vertebrm. In the cervical region they are arranged in pairs corresponding with the double con- formation of the transverse processes, the vertebral artery and anterior division of the cervical nerves lying between them. The rectus an- ticus minor and rectus lateralis represent the intertransversales be- tween the atlas and cranium. In the dorsal region the anterior inter- transversales are represented by the intercostal muscles, while the pos- terior are mere tendinous bands, muscular only between the first and last vertebrffi. In the lumbar region, the anterior intertransversales are thin and occupy only part of the space between the transverse processes. Analogues of posterior intertransversales exist in the form of small muscular fasciculi (interobliqui) extended between the nidi- mentary posterior transverse processes of the lumbar vertebras. With regal’d to the origin and insertion of the muscles of the back, the student should be informed that no regularit}’- attends their at- tachments. At the best, a knowledge of their exact connections, even were it possible to retain it, would be but a barren information, if not absolutely injurious, as tending to exclude more valuable learning. I have therefore endeavoured to arrange a plan, b}"- which thej* may be more easily recollected, by placing them in a tabular form (p. 208), that the student may see, at a glance, the origin and insertion of each, and compare the natural grouping and similarity of attachments of the various layers. In this manner, also, their actions will be better com- prehended, and learnt with greater facility. Actions.—The upper fibres of the trapezius draw the shoulder upwards and backwards ; the middle fibres, directly backwards ; and the lower, downwards and backwards. The lower fibres also act by producing rotation of the scapula upon the chest. If the shoulder be fixed, the upper fibres will flex the spine towards the corresponding side. The latissimus dorsi is a muscle of the arm, drawung it back-