SPHKNOID BONE. 38 surface is continuous on each side witli the spinous process, and at the angle of union is the termination of the Vidian canal. The lesser wings (processes of Ingrassias) are thin and triangular, the base being attached to the upper and anterior part of the body of the sphenoid, and the apex extended outwards, and terminating in an acute point. The anterior border is irregularly serrated, the posterior being free and rounded, and received into the fissure of Sylvius of the cerebrum. The inner extremity of this border is the anterior clinoid process, which is supported by a short pillar of bone, giving attach- ment to a part of the common tendon of the muscles of the orbit. The lesser wing forms the posterior part of the roof of the orbit, and its base is traversed by the optic foramen. The greater wings present three surfaces ; a superior or cerebral, which forms part of the middle fossa of the base of the skull, an ante- rior sui’face which assists in forming the outer wall of the orbit, and an external surface divided into two parts by the pterygoid ridge. The superior part of the external surface enters into the formation of the temporal fossa, and the inferior portion forms part of the z3'gomatic fossa. The pterygoid ridge, dividing the two, gives attachment to the upper origin of the pterygoideus externus muscle. The spinous processes project backwards at each side from the base of the greater wings of the sphenoid, and are received into the angu- lar intervals between the squamous and petrous portions of the tem- poral bones. Piercing the base of each process is a large oval opening, the foramen ovale; nearer its apex a smaller opening, the foramen spinosum; and extending downwards from the apex a short spine, which gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw and to the laxator tympani muscle. The external border of the spinous process is rough, to articulate with the lower border of the squamous portion of the temporal bone; the internal forms the anterior boundary of the foramen lacerum basis cranii, and is somewhat grooved for the reception of the Eustachian tube. The pterygoid processes descend perpendicularlj” from the base of the greater wings, and form in the articulated skull the lateral boun- daries of the posterior nares. Each process consists of an external and internal plate, and an anterior surface. The external plate is broad and thin, giving attachment, by its external surface, to the ex- ternal pterygoid muscle, and by its internal surface to the internal pterygoid. This plate is sometimes pierced by a foramen, which is not unfrequently formed by a process of communication passing between it and the spinous process. The internal pterj'goid plate is long and narrow, and terminated at its e.xtremity by a curved hook, the hamu- larprocess, around which plays tlie tendon of the tensor palati muscle. At the base of the internal pterygoid plate is a small oblong depres- sion, the scaphoid fossa, from which arises the circumtiexus or tensor palati muscle. The interval between the two pterj'goid plates is the pterygoid fossa ; and the two plates are separated inferiorly bj' an an- gular notch {palatine), which receives the tuberosity, or pterygoid pro-