MUSCLES OF THE LARYNX. 552 serted into the lower and inner border of tlie ala of the thyroid as far back as its inferior cornu. The Crico-arytenoideus posticus arises from the depression on the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage, and passes upwards and out- wards to be inserted into the outer angle of the base of the arytenoid. The Crico-arytenoideus lateralis arises from the upper border of the side of the cricoid, and passes upwards and backwards to be inserted into the outer angle of the base of the arytenoid cartilage. The Thyro-arytenoideus arises from the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage, close to the outer side of the chorda vocalis, and passes back- wards parallel Avith the cord, to be inserted into the base and outer surface of the arytenoid cartilage. ■ The Arytenoideus muscle occupies the posterior concave surface of the arytenoid cartilages, between Avhich it is stretched. It consists of three planes of transverse and oblique fibres; hence it Avas formerly considered as several muscles, under the names of transversi and ohliqui. The three muscles of the epiglottis are the— Thyro-epiglottideus, Aryteno-epiglottideus superior, Aryteno-epiglottideus inferior. The Thyro-epiglottideus appears to be formed by the upper fibres of the thyro- arytenoideus muscle : they spread out upon the external surface of the sacculus laryngis and in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane, in Avhich they are lost; a feAV of the anterior fibres being continued onAvards to the side of the epiglottis. The A ryteno-epiglottideus superior consists of a few scattered fibres, which pass forAvards in the fold of mucous membrane forming the lateral boundary of the entrance into the larynx, fi’om the apex of the arj'tenoid cartilage to the side of the epiglottis. The Aryteno-epiglottideus inferior.—This muscle, described by Mr. Hilton, and closely connected with the sacculus laryngis, ma}' be found by raising the mucous membrane immediately above the ventricle of the larATix. It arises by a narrow and fibrous origin from the arytenoid cartilage, just above the attachment of the chorda vocalis; and passing * A side AdeAV of the larynx, one ala of the thyroid cartilage has been removed. 1. The remaining ala of the thyroid cartilage. 2. One of the arytenoid cartilagea 3. One of the cornicula laryngis. 4. The cricoid cartilage. 5. The crico-aryte- noideus posticus muscle. 6. The crico-arytenoideus lateralis. 7. The thyro- aiytenoideus. 8 The crico-thyroideau membrane. 9. One half of the epiglottis. 10. The upper part of the trachea. Fig. 175.*