152 TIBIO-FIBULAR ARTICULATIONS, Besides the proper ligaments of the articulation, the joint is pro- tected on its anterior part by the fascia lata, which is thicker upon the outer tlian upon the inner side, by a tendinous expansion from the vastus intemus, and by some scattered ligamentous fibres which are inserted into the sides of the patella. Actions.—The knee joint is one of the strongest of the articulations of the body, while at the same time it admits of the most perfect de- gree of movement in the directions of fleodon and extension. During flexion the articular surface of the tibia glides forward on the condyles of the femur; the lateral ligaments, the posterior, and the crucial liga- ments are relaxed ; while the ligamentum patellae, being put upon the stretch, serves to press the adipose mass into the vacuity formed in the front of the joint. In extension all the ligaments are put upon the stretch with the exception of the ligamentum patellae. When the knee is semi-flexed, a partial degree of rotation is permitted. 3. Articulation between the Tibia and Fibula.—The tibia and fibula are held firmly connected by means of seve?i ligaments, viz. Anterior, Posterior, s above. Interosseous membrane, Interosseous inferior. Anterior, ) Posterior, S Transverse. below. The anterior superior ligament is a strong fasciculus of parallel fibres passing obliquely downwards and outwards from the outer tuberosity of the tibia, to the anterior surface of the head of the fibula. The posterior superior ligament is disposed in a similar manner on the posterior surface of the joint. Within the articulation there is a distinct synovial membrane which is sometimes continuous with that of the knee joint. The interosseous membrane, or superior interosseous ligament, is a broad layer of aponeurotic fibres which pass obliquely do^vnwards and outwards, from the sharp ridge on the tibia, to the inner edge of the fibula, and are crossed at an acute angle by a few fibres passing in the opposite direction. The ligament is deficient above, leaving a con- siderable interval between the bones, through which the anterior tibial artery takes its course forwards to the anterior aspect of the leg, and near its lower third there is an opening for the anterior peroneal artery and vein. The interosseous membrane is in relation, in front, with the tibia- lis anticus, extensor longus digitorum, and extensor proprius pollicis muscle, with the anterior tibial vessels and nerve, and with the ante- rior peroneal*artery ; and behind with the tibialis posticus, and flexor longus digitorum muscle, and with the posterior peroneal artery.