STRUCTURE OF THE HEART. 546 expands in a radiated manner over the surface of the heart, con- stituting its superficial layer of fibres. The direction of these fibres is, for the most part, oblique, passing from left to right on the anterior and from right to left on the posterior surface of the heart, becoming more longitudinal near its base, and terminating by being inserted into the fibrous rings of the auriculo-ventricular openings, and of the pulmonary artery and aorta. Over the right ventricle the superficial fibres are increased in number by the addition of accessory fibres from the right surface of the septum, which pierce the middle layer, and take the same direction with the superficial fibres from the apex of the left ventricle, and of other accessory fibres from the surfiice of both ventricles. From this description it will be perceived, that the superficial layer of fibres is very scanty, and is pretty equally distributed over the surface of both ventricles. The middle layer of both ventricles is formed by the two bands, short and long. But the internal layer of the two ventricles is very differently constituted: that of the left is formed by the spiral expansion of the fibres of the rope, and of the two columnae papillares ; that of the right remains to be described. The septum ventriculorum also consists of three layers, a left layer, the radiated expansion of the rope and cameae columnae ; a middle layer, , the long band; and a right layer, belonging to the proper wall of the right ventricle, and continuous both in front and behind with the long band, and in front also with the short band, and with the superficial layer of the right ventricle. , | The Internal layer of the right ventricle is formed by fasciculi of *j fibres which arise from the right segment of the root of the aorta, from the entire circumference of the root of the pulmonary artery, and from the bases of the columnae papillares. The fibres from the root of the ; aorta, associated with some from the camese columnae, constitute a | layer which passes obliquely forwards upon the right side of the I septum. The superior fibres coming directly from the aorta join the internal surface of the long band at the anterior border of the septum, while the lower two-thirds of the layer are continuous with the in- ternal surface of the short band, some of its fibres piercing that band to augment the number of superficial fibres. The fibres derived from the root of the pidmonary artery, conjoined with those from the base of one of the columnae papillares, curve forwards from their origin, and Avind obliquely downwards and backwards aroimd the internal surface of the wall of the ventricle to the posterior border of the septum, where they become continuous with the long band, directly that it has passed backwards through the septum. Fibres of the Auricles.—The fibres of the auricles are disposed in two layers, external and internal. The internal layer is formed of fascicuU which arise from the fibrous rings of the auriculo-ventricular openings and proceed upwards to enlace Avith each other, and con- stitAite the appendices auricularum. These fasciculi are parallel in their arrangement, and in the appendices form projections and giA-e