SACRUM. 19 of the sacro-iliac articulation; the third is large, and gives attachment to the oblique sacro-iliac ligament'; the fourth fifth are smaller, and serve for the attachment of thesacro-ischiatic ligaments. The lateral border of the sacrum presents superiorly a broad and ear-shaped (auri- cular) surface to articulate with the iliiun ; and infe- riorly a sharp edge, to which the greater and lesser sacro- ischiatic ligaments are at- tached. On the mperior border, in the middle line, is an oval articular surface, which corresponds with the under patt of the body of the last lumbar vertebra; and on each side a broad trian- gular simface, which supports the lumbo-sacral nerve and psoas magnus muscle. Immediately behind the vertebral articular sur- face is the trianguhar entrance of the sacral canal; and on each side of this opening an articular process, which looks backwards and inwards, like the superior articular processes of the lumbar vertebrae. In front of each articular process is an intervertebral notch. The inferior ex- tremity of the bone presents a small oval surface which articulates with the coccyx; and on each side a notch, which, with a corresponding notch in the upper border of the coccyx, forms the foramen for the transmission of the fifth sacral nerve. The sacrum presents some variety in respect of curvature, and of the number of pieces •which enter into its structure. The curve is often very slight, and is situated only near the lower part of the bone ; while in other subjects it is considerable, and occurs at the middle of the sacrum. The sexual differences in the sacrum relate to its greater breadth, and the greater angle which it forms with the rest of the ver- tebral column in the female, rather than to any peculiarity in shape. It is sometimes composed of six pieces, more rarely of four, and, occa- sionally, the first and second pieces remain permanently separate. * The sacrum seen upon its anterior surface. 1, 1. The transverse lines marking the original constitution of the bone of four pieces. 2. 2. The anterior sacral foramina. 3- The promontorj- of the sacrum. 4. The ear-shaped sur- face which articulates with the ilium. .'5. The sharp edge to whicli the sacro- Ischiatic ligaments are attached. 6. The vertebral articular surface. 7. The broad triangular surface which supports the psoas muscle and lumbo-sacral nerve. 8. The articular process of the right side. 9. The inferior extremity, or apex of the sacrum. 10. One of the sacral cornua. 11. The natch which is converted into a foramen by the coccyx. Fig 10 * .9