579 PAPILLARY LAYER. FIBROUS LAYER. and become flattened, and in the superficial laminm are converted into thin scales. The nuclei, the cells, and the scales are connected together by a glutinous fluid of the consistence of jelly, which contains an abundance of minute opaque granules. The scales of the super- ficial layer overlap each other by their margins. During the natural functions of the mucous membrane the superficial scales exfoliate continually and give place to the deeper layers. In the stomach and intestines these bodies are pyriform in shape, and have a columnar arrangement, the apices being applied to the papillary surface of the membrane, and the bases forming, by their approximation, the free intestinal surface. Each column is provided with a central nucleus and nucleus-corpuscle, which gives its middle a swollen appear- ance ; and, from the transparency of its structure, the nucleus may be seen through the base of the column, when examined from the surface. Around the circular villi, the cokunns, from being placed perpendicu- larly to the surface, have a radiated arrangement. The columnar epithelium is produced, in the same manner with the laminated epithelium, in cytoblasts, cells, and columns, and the latter are contin- ually thrown off to give place to successive layers. The Proper mucous, or Papillary layer is analogous to the papillary layer of the skin, and, like it, is the formative structure by which the epithelium is produced. Its surface presents several varieties of appearance when examined in different parts of its extent. In the stomach it forms polyhedral cells, into the floor of which the gastric follicles open. In the small intestine it presents numerous minute, projecting papill®, called villi. The villi are of two kinds, cylindrical and laminated, and so abundant, as to give to the entire surface a beautiful velvety appearance. In the large intestine the surface is composed of a fine network of minute polyhedral cells, more numerous than those of the stomach, but resembling them in receiving the secre- tion from numerous perpendicular follicles into their floors. The Fibrous layer (sub-mucous, nervous) is the membrane of sup- port to the mucous membrane, as is the corium to the papillary layer of the skin. It gives to the mucous membrane its strength and resistance, is but loosely connected with the mucous layer, but is firmly adherent to the muscular stratum, and is called, in the older works on anatomy, the “ nei’vous coat." Glands.—In the loose areolar tissue connecting the mucous with the fibrous layer, are situated the glands and follicles belonging to the mucous membrane; these are the— Pharyngeal glands. Oesophageal glands. Gastric follicles. Duodenal glands (Brunner s), Glandulae solitarise, Glandulae aggregate (Peyer’s), Simple follicles (Lieberkiihn’s).