S^Kf'-. •. * 'V & 'Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/details/b21688825_0004\ 1 *THE A N A T 0 M T OF THE HUMAN BODY VOL. IV.-) . \ . t > f' Piintcd by A. Strahaw, Printers-Slreet.THE ANATOMY OF THE HUMAN BODY. OtLcd VOL. IV. CONTAINING THE ANATOM? OF THE VISCERA OF THE ABDOMEN, THE PARTS IN THE MALE AND FEMALE PELVIS, AND THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. PART I. OF THE'ABDOMINAL VISCERA. INTRODUCTORY VIEW OF THE SYSTEM OF THE VISCERA, AND OF THE STRUCTURE OF GLANDS. CHAP. I. OF THE STOMACH AND INTESTINES. CHAP II. OF THE LIVER, SPLEEN, PANCREAS, AND KIDNEY. PART II. OF THE MALE PARTS OF GENERATION. CHAP. I. OF THE PARTS WITHIN THE PELVIS. CHAP. II. OF THE PARTS CONNECTED WITH THE VISCERA OF THE PELVIS, J3UT SITUATED WITHOUT IT. PART III. OF THE PARTS OF THE FEMALE PELVIS. PART IV, OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. FELLOW OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS OF EDINBURGH. LONDON: PRINTED FOR T. N. LONGMAN AND O.REES, PATERNOSTER-ROWt AND T. CADELL AND W. DAVIES, STRAND. 1804. WITH AN APPENDIX. By CHARLES BELL,, .. '>. .a' C ' J .. \ ‘.V U-O' . . . . . . ■ ■ V '->"V ' ■ • )T,H .> j.!r)jv ; . ■x'j *ii "i l. » 'V 1 v .CONTENTS VOL. IV. PART I. OF THE ABDOMINAL VISCERA. INTRODUCTORY VIEW OF THE SYSTEM OF THE CERA, AND OF THE STRUCTURE OF GLANDS, P, CHAP. I. Of the Abdomen in general, and of the Peritoneum, CHAP. II. Of the Membranous Viscera of the Abdomen, Sedion i. Of the CEfophagus, 2. Of the Stomach, 3. Of the fmall Inteftines, 4. Of the great Intehines, VIS- I. Page 23 33 40 4+ 65 85CONTENTS. vt CHAP. III. Of the Solid or Glandular Viscera of the Abdomen, Sedion i. Of the Liver, . . 2. Of the Pancreas, - - 3. Of the Spleen, . - , 4. Of the Kidney, - - PART II. OF THE MALE PARTS OF GENERATION. CHAP. I. Of the Parts within the Pelvis, . - - 156 Seftion I. Of the Bladder of Urine, - - 157 2. Of the Proftate Gland, - * i6e CHAP. II. Of the Parts conne&ed with the Viscera of the Pelvis, but feated without it, - - Sefiion 1. Of the Penis and Urethra, z. Of the Teftes, » - - < T J \ PART III. OF THE FEMALE PARTS OF GENERATION. CHAP. L The External Parts of Generation, - - 20? *6S ib. «75 Pagd - 95 ib» 125 129 337CHAP. II. Page 222 Of the Parts contained within the Female Pelvis, Seflion i. Of the Bladder of Urine, - * ib. 2. Of the vagina; of its Shape, Connections, &c. 225 3. Of the Womb, - 229 4. Of the Ovaria, * - 238 PART IV. OF THE LYMPHATIC AND LACTEAL SYSTEMS OF VESSELS. CHAP. I. Of the Lymphatic and Lacteal Systems of Vessels, 289 Introductory Views, - - - ib. SeSion 1. Of the Capillary Veftels, - - ib. 2. Of the Lymphatic Syftem in particular, 293 3. Of the Glands of the Abforbent Syftem, 295 4. Origin of the Lymphatics, and of the Doc- trines of Abforption, - 298 CHAP. II. Of the Course of the Lymphatics, = - 314 APPENDIX, Containing the Description of the Venous System and the Anatomy of the Teeth, - - 539viii CONTENTS, CHAP. I. Page Of the Veins in general, - - - 339 Stfiion 1. Of the Veins of the Head and Neck* - 348 2. Of the Veins of the Arm, - - 355 3. The fuperior Vena Cava, the Vena Azygos, and the leffer Veins of the Thorax, - 358 CHAP. II. Of the Veins which unite to form the Inferior Vena Cava, 361 Of the Teeth, - 367 PARTEXPLANATION Vol. IV. a furface OF THE PLATES. PLATE I. TP his plate reprefents an ideal fection of the abdomen, and the cut edge of the peritoneum is reprefented by the white line. a. The LIVER. B. The INTESTINES. C. The KIDNEY. D. The BLADDER of URINE. E. The RECTUM. 1. The peritoneum, where it lines the abdominal mufcles. 2. The peritoneum, where it is reflected to form the ligament of the liver. 3. The liver being reprefented cut through, we can trace the lamina of the ligament 2, over itsEXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. furface 3, forming the peritoneal coat of this vifcus. 4. Marks the peritoneum reflected from the liver upon the-diaphragm. 5. Here the peritoneum is refle&ed off from the fpine, to form one of the lamina of the me- fentery. 6. The peritoneal coat of the inteftine, which we can trace round the circle of the gut until it unites again with the mefentery. 7. 7. The peritoneum, forming the lower lamina of the mefentery. 8. The peritoneum at that part where it is reflected, and covers the kidnev. j 9. The peritoneum is here defcending upon the reclum e, we fee it refieXed over the gut, and defcending again betwixt the reXum and bladder. 10. The peritoneum where it forms a coat to the fundus of the bladder. 11. At this part we fee the peritoneum refleXed up upon the os pubis, and from that we trace it to fig. 1. Thus we fee, that the peritoneum can be traced round all its various inflexions and pfoceffes ; which {hews, that it forms one continuous fac, and that the inteflines and the liver are equally on the outfide of this mem- brane with the kidney. Expla-EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES, Hi Explanation of Plate II. This Plate reprefents the epididimis and tefticle, in- jetted with quickfilver, and difletted. A. The body of the tefticle with the tunica albu- ginea difletted off. B. B. The feminal veflels in the body of the tefticle, or TUBULI TESTIS *. C. The rete testis formed by the the union of the veflels B. B. ©. The vasa efferentia, which as they pro- ceed from the tefticle, are convoluted in a con- nical figure, and are calledthevAScuLAR cones, ee. The epididimis formed of the union of the vaf- cular cones; it is a little difletted and fpread out. f. The vas deferens. Explanation of Plate III. This Plate reprefents the proftate gland, veficuke feminales, and lower part of the bladder, the parts being previoufly hardened in fpirits, the veficuke were afterwards cut open. a a. The body of the prostate gland; it is that lower part of the gland which can be felt through the rettum. B. The proftate gland is here cut into and difletted, in following the dutts of the veficulse. c. The extremities of the dutts common to the vefi- culse feminales and vafa deferentia. * Where the tubuli are emerging'to form the rete vafculofum, or rete teitis, they are called the vafa refta. d d. TheIV EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. d d. The cells of the veficulae feminales, which are laid open by a fedion. X The left vas deferens, which is alfo laid open to {hew the cellular ftrudure which it affumes to- wards its termination T. The RIGHT VAS DEFERENS. g g. The foramina, by which the vafa deferentia opei* into the common dud. H. The lower and back part of the bladder. J. The RIGHT URETER. Explanation of Plate IV. This plate reprefents a fedion of the neck of the bladder. a. The lower part of the urinary bladder near the neck. b. The opening] of the right ureter, which is marked i. fig. iii. g c. The fubftance of the proftate gland, which is cut through; its thicknefs, texture, and the man- ner in which it furrounds the beginning of the urethra, will be underftood from this plate. d. The urethra laid open. F. The VERUMONTANUM, or CAPUT GAL IN AG INIS. g g. The points of feathers put into the openings of the veficulse feminales and vafa deferentia. N. B. Round thefe duds, on the furface of the verumontanum, and in that part of the urethra which is furrounded by the proftategland, innumerable mucous duds may be obferved : into fome of thefe fmall bridles are introduced. Printed by A. Strahan, i' rinters-Street.*Flaw VI lublLrfud. by-Longman kRces May y' 1804. Chaf Bell del? D.LUar.y jrEXPLANATION Vol. IV. b Explao OF THE PLATES. PLATE VI. Fig. i. An ovum in a very early ftage, reprefenting the fhaggy furface of the true chorion. Fig. 2. We may fee here the foetus in a very early ftage contained in the tranfparent amnion, and, attached to the outfide of the amnion, the vesicula umbilicalis. N. B. Thefe are not reprefentations of the fame abortion, . - • , F’g- 3- Reprefents the ovum a little more advanced, a. The Chorion. B. The Amnion. c. The Foetus hung by the Umbilical Chord,EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. il Explanation of Plate VII. This plate reprefents two views of a conception, we (hall fay about the end of the firfl month, and here the decidua and the ovum have been thrown off toge- ther. This abortion was prepared fo as to refemble the beautiful engravings in Dr. Hunter’s xxxiv table. Fig. i. The deciduous efflorefcence formed by the womb is feen here intire, and feen as if moulded to the cavity of the womb: it is only neceflary to obferve that it hung inverted. a. The lower part of the conception, which was near the neck of the womb, and which has fome coagula of blood attached to it. E. B. Quills introduced within the decidua by an open- ing near the neck of the womb, and their points brought out at that part of the mem- brane which anfwers to the opening of the Fallopean tubes: there it is either entirely de- ficient, or it is fo thin that it has been torn a$ c. c. Fig. 2. Here the other fide of the conception is {hewn, and the ovum is feen to have adhered to the outer furface of the decidua. aa. aa. The quills introduced into the cavity of the decidua, B. The fhaggy furface of the decidua, c. c, The fleecy outer furface of the chorion. ItFlute IF. Bru/rared' fivl.l Fubtiitlied by LonqitHTit %: ftypjt. May 0 J.' 3&»4.FI ate VHI. Drawn, by Ch/vt Fall. J3ablis/u:d. by -Lontp/uw i.’J(rcs, May F'!‘JO04.EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. JU It is here to be obferved that the ovum, cde. may be fuppofed to be as it has defcended from the ovarium, only fomevvhat enlarged, and it is here evidently on the outfide of the decidua, but it has been torn open, and that deciduous furface which conne&ed it to the furface of the womb at this place has been left with the womb, to be afterwards thrown off with the difcharges. \p. The delicate membrane the amnios. £. The umbilical cord, and part of the foetus. Explanation of Plate VIII. This and the following plate reprefents a conception of the third month, and as the abortion was thrown off very intire, we have another opportunity of ob« ferving the ftate of the decidua in a more advanced ftate. a. A thread palled through the more folid placentary mafs fufpending the whole. b. The decidua, having a peculiar reticulated ap- pearance. c. c. Shreads of the decidua, where it has burft in the delivery. d. The decidua reflexa, through which alfo the proper membranes have burft, ' E. The TRUE CHORION. F, Very fmall curling arteries which are entering the decidua, or what may be confidered as the maternal portion of the placenta. Expla-EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES, iv Explanation of Plate IX. . We have here prefented a view of a feftion of the fame conception. a. The decidua. b. b. The cut edge of the decidua, which will be feen to furround the whole ovum, and particularly it may be obferved to form on the upper part a diftintt lamina from the placenta f. c. c. The decidua. d. The decidua reflexa. f. The placenta already formed by the accumu- lated vefiels of the chorion. ©. The chorion towards the lower part of the womb \ here, it may be obferved the fleecy veflfels have difappeared. H. The amnion. i. The umbilical cord twilled three times around the neck of the foetus.Plate IX. @0? Chat Bull id* D. L tears sc. Published by Join;/nan Sc Pees. Jfav q .1S04.PART THE FIRST. OF THE ABDOMINAL VISCERA. Vol. IV, B> s > 1 V ‘ ■'! V <f / rr / fINTRODUCTION. VIEW OF THE SYSTEM OF THE VISCERA, AND OF THE STRUCTURE OF GLANDS. Xn this lad volume we have to comprehend the anatomy and functions of the feveral vifcera of the abdomen and pelvis, confidered not only as individual parts, but as connected together and as forming with the lymphatic and circulating fyftems of veffels a great part of that chain of mutual dependance and relation which conflitutes the animal oeconomy a whole. It becomes neceffary therefore to take here a flight and curfory view of the oeconomy of the inteftinal canal and abforbing fyflem, including at the fame time forne- thing of the hiltory of opinions regarding fecretion and the ftructure of glands. It will be underftood, that thefe introductory obfervations are meant only to com- bine the feveral parts, and to prevent that manner of defcription, which is neceffary to accuracy and minute- nefs, from leading us to confider the feveral parts as diflinCt and infulated. An animal body is never for a moment ftationary: the remoteft part is in attion, and every point is fuffer- ing a perpetual change. From the firfl; moment of our exiftence we have commenced a revolution: we, by flow degrees, advance in activity and ftrength, and ripen to maturity ; but by as flow and as lure gradations we B 2 declineINTRODUCTION. 4 decline to feeblenefs and infirmities: and the more ra- pidly that animals advance in the firfl: ftage of their progrefs, fo is the proportion of their decline. But it is not in obferving the changes of the animal body from youth to age that the operations of the ceconomy are the mod interefiing. It is when we find the living body to confifl: of parts performing a variety of functions, and thefe conne&ed and mutually de- pendant ; when we fee the circulating fluid throwing put fluid and folid fecretions to build up and fupport the body, which is in inceflant and daily decay. Again, our admiration is ftrongly excited when we obferve the fyftem to confifl: of fluids and folids, and the exigence of the animal to depend upon the balance of their power; the fluids feparating and combining in new affinities, and forming the various fecretions; and the folids having a&ion, and that a&ion controlling the affinities and new combinations of the circulating fluids. We find that life fubfifts by the due a&ion of folids and fluids; or that an incomprehenfible influ- ence in a living body is exerted on the latter, and that the chemift can never fo combine the fluids out of the body as to imitate the changes produced in a living fyftem of fluids and vefiels. Forgetting that animation is the efiential character of living bodies, phyfiologifts have too much endeavoured in every age to explain the phenomena of animated nature by iftuftrations drawn from mechanics, chemiftry, pr hydraulics. In a body in which there is life there is a perpetual \vafte ; firft by fecretions, which for particular purpofes are thrown into the cavities, and afterwards carried opt of the body entirely by the excretions of the kidney, • th§5 INTRODUCTION. tfie perfpiration by the furface, the exhalation by the lungs* the fecretions of the internal cavities as of the inteftines. But more than this, there is a decompofi- tion of the folids of the body which are carried into the circulating fluids* and finally difmilfed from the fyftem. Laftly, we cannot but obferve, that even the powers of mufcular motion, nay, the powers of the mind and of the fenfes, are exhaufted by exercife, and renovated through the influence of the circulation. The conti- nued adion of a mufcle is followed by feeblenefs and the continued impreflion of the rays of light exhaufts the retina, fo that the objeft becomes firfl faint and then vanifhes. Since there is wafte of the folids and fluids* and exhauftion of the energies of the fyftem, fo alfo mull there be a fource of fupply, and means of renovating its adion. Accordingly animals have appetites requir- ing the fupply of food, and the call of hunger is controlled by the neceffities of their fyftem. When food is received into the firft paflfages, there is thrown out from the flomach a fluid which dilfolves it, changes its properties* and is itfelf eflentially altered. The work of aflimilation is thus begun. As this converted fluid takes its courfe through the inteftines, it is more and more changed j more aflimilated to the nature of the peculiar fluids of the animal; and having ftill ad- ditional fecretions united to it, particularly the bile, it is by thefe means feparated from the grofier parts of the aliment. This fluid, which is now called chyle, is abforbed by a particular and appropriate fyftem of veflfels, which, from their conveying this white and milky-like fluid, are called the ladeals. The ladeal B 3 veflfelsINTRODUCTION". 6 veffels carry the chyle to the thoracic du<ft, the trunk of the abforbing fyftem ; but not dire&ly; for the chyle is depofited in the raefenteric glands, from which it is again abforbed and carried forward. Or if we fuppofe thefe glands to be merely convoluted veffels, its flow is at lead delayed, fo that it is not at once thrown into the mafs of circulating fluids. We find then that the ftomach performs digeftion, and the fpleen, we will venture to affirm, is fubfervient to it. The fecretion of the liver we find to prepare the chyle for abforption, while at the fame time it is the peculiar ftimulus to the inteftines. The pancreas pours out a fluid which tempers the acrid bile. The fuperior part of the inteflinal canal abforbs the nutri- tious fluid or chyle, while the grofs remains of the food move on to be depofited in the great inteftines. The great inteftines are not only receptacles, but form at the fame time an extenfive fecreting furface ufeful in the ceconomy, by throwing off the wafte of the fyftem. The lafteal veffels, which take up the chyle, are but branches of the fyftem of abforbents—which is a fyf- tem confiding of two great divifions, the lacteals and lymphatics: the firft receiving the nutritious fluids from the inteftinal canal, and the latter being abfor- bents, taking up the fluids which have been thrown out upon the cavities and furfaces of the body; and we prefume upon the folid parts of the body alfo. Thus the new fluids, rich in fupplies, are mingled with thofe which are fraught with the wafte and decompo- fition of the fyftem. The thoracic du£t, the trunk of this fyftem, conveys thefe fluids thus mingled together intointroduction. 7 into the right fide of the heart, where they are re« ceived into the vortex of the circulating red blood, Thefe fluids, now agitated and wrought up with the blood in the cavities of the heart, are fent through the circulation of the lungs, and fubmitted to the influence of their a£lion and the expofure to the atmofpheric air. When chyle is formed in the ftomach and inteflines, it is obferved to conflfl; of albumen, ferum, globules, and falts: but the change which it may undergo by its reception into the ladleals, its being depofited in their glands, its mingling with the lymph, its agitation in the heart, have not been obferved, though it is natural to fuppofe that by degrees it aflimilates in its nature to that of the circulating blood, and does at lafl become perfe&Iy fimilar by the operation of the lungs. By the expofure of the circulating fluids to the at- mofphere in the lungs a gas is abforbed, which becomes an aftive principle in the blood, and from the blood is communicated to the folids. That the blood of an animal has properties which diftinguifh it from mere matter we readily allow j but to fay that it poflefles life is to ufe a term in which few will acquidfce. It poflefles properties while circulating in the veflels diftinft from thofe which it fhews out of the body j and thefe do not depend on the agitation and inceflant motion, nor on the degree of heat, nor on any fimilar circumftance, but apparently on fome fecret influence which the veflels exert over it. The analyfis of the blood by the chemifls holds out to us little hope of advancing in the knowledge of the ceconomy of a living animal. Chemiftry, when applied to the ana- B 4 lyfisINTRODUCTION. 8 lyfis of dnimal matter, leaves its devotees in a perplexity of knowledge and difcoveries which have no end, and which point to no conclufion. There are produced from the blood a variety of fluids by organs which are called glands, and the form- ation or feparation of thefe fluids is fecretion. But the folid parts of the body ought to be confidered as fecretions equally with the matter which flows from the duds of glands. For there is formed and depo- fited from the blood, during the round of its circula- tion, bone to fupport the incumbent weight of the body •, mufcular fibre, to give it motion ; as well as all the other variety of folid3 and fluids. The only difference betwixt thefe folid depofitions from the blood and the glandular fecretions is, that the former are ftill within the influence of the vafcular fyftem, and that they are decompofed and re-abforbed, conveyed again into the mafs of circulating fluids before they can be finally expelled from the body. The chemifts have obferved the divilion of animal bodies into folids and fluids, but the fubdivifions of thefe are very inaccurate. The fluids they have dif- tinguilhed into three clafles; iff, Recrementitious hu- mours, which go to nourilh and fupport the body; 2dly, The excrementitious fluids, which are carried out of the body by certain emunftuaries; and the 3d are of a compound nature, being partly recremen- titious and partly excrementitious. We muff obferve, however, that the fluids enumerated under thefe heads fliew it to be a very incorrect arrangement. Thefitjl divifion comprehends the fat, the marrow, the matter of internal perfpiration, and the ofleous juice. TheINTRODUCTION. fecond comprehends the fluids of infenfible tranfpira* tion, the fweat, mucus, cerumen, urine, foeces. And the lajt diviflon comprehends the faliva, the tears, the bile, the pancreatic juice, the gaftric and the intef* tinal juice, the milk, and the feminal fluid. To attend to their arrangements of the folid parts of animals would be equally far from ferving any ufeful end ; for they have thrown together parts fo difcordant in func- tion and fo unlike in ftrudure that they can be of no ufe in a general view of the ceconomy, and cannot in chemical analyfis fhew a uniform refult *. Perhaps all the corrednefs to which we can at pre- fent pretend is fome fuch diviflon as this. Befide3 forming the folid mafs of the animal body, thefe fecretions are drawn from the blood : fluids which are fubfervient to the aflimilating of new matter to the fyftem; fluids which are ufeful in preferving the mo- bility of parts $ and, laftly, the fecretions which con- vey away the wafle and debris of the body, which is fucceflively replaced by the appofition of new matter. From this fliort view of the fyftem we underftand how inceflantly the powers are fpent in adion, and the fluids exhaufted by depofttion and fepretion, and how eflential to life the fundions of thofe parts are which ad upon and aflimilate the food. It is the confidera- tion of thefe parts ivhich forms the fubjed of the firft: fedion of the prefent volume. As in the conflderation of thefe fundions the ftrudure of the glandular organs becomes a chief fubjed of inquiry, it. will be natural at prefent to confider in a general way the opinions * See Fourcroy’s Analyfls of Animal Subftances. whichJto INTRODUCTIONS which have been entertained regarding the ftru&urei of gland?. The peculiar nature of that organization by which the feveral fecretions are formed, has hitherto eluded abfolute proof by experiment or diffedion. It is imagined that there are fome organs which do little more than feparate the parts of the blood like to the exudation by exhaling arteries. But neither in the exhalent arteries nor in the fimpler organs can I imagine a fimple draining of the blood, but rather that the fame principle influences all, and that the feveral varieties of fecretion depend upon a modifica- tion of the adion. It would appear that the fluids in circulation and the veffels containing them mud reci- procally affed each other : we know that a change on the date of the circulating fluids will alter the nature of the glandular adion, and an excitement of the gland will dill more powerfully change the nature of the fecretion; the a dive power of the folids appearing to be an agent which controls and directs the che- mical affinities. We are druck with the variety of form in the fe- creting organs. We fee a fimple furface pouring out its fluids; or a fimple canal into which the arteries throw out the fecretion. We find again the fecreting veffels and their duds convoluted and mailed together forming proper glandular bodies; of which kind are the folid abdominal vifcera. When we diflect the glands we do not find them to have a fimilarity in Itrudure. Thus the fubdance of the liver, the kidney, the tedicle, &c. are quite unlike, and as their fecretions are different fo are their fym- 6 pathies.II INTRODUCTION* pathles: the efFeCt of difeafe upon them, and the confequences of medicine operating through the ge- neral circulation will be to attach to one individually, leaving the others in their accuftomed aCtion. Glands are different not only in their outward form, their general appearance when cut into, and the manner of the connection of their parts, but alfo in a remarkable manner in the length, fize, and form of their veffel: and duds. In confidering the opinions of pbyfiologifls or ana- tomifts regarding glandular fecretion, and the ftrudure of glands, we find in the firft inftance that the old phyficians contented themfelves with faying that the glands or vifcera poflefled a peculiar power to feled and feparate the fluids from the blood. The next clafs had recourfe to hypothefis: they fpoke of the reparation of certain parts by means of fermentation or by a kind of filtering through the pores or veflfels of glands; that thefe pores allowed only particles of a particular fize or figure to pafs them f. It was oppofed to this hypothefis, that the thinner fluids mull have run through the organs defiined for the groiler fecretions. But when a theory fuch as this is received no argument nor proof feems neceflary to overthrow it. Refling upon authority alone, it flood until it was overturned by the falhion of new doflrines: one equally puerile was raifed upon its overthrow. We obferve, fays the founder of this theory J, that wet or oiled paper will only tranfinit fluid of that * Van Helmont. Vieudens, &c. t Charleton, Defcartes, Borelifi Verheyn, &c. See. X Window. Helvet.as. kindXi INTRODUCTION; 3 kind with which it is previoufly imbued, it will not tranfmit the oil when wetted, nor will the water make any impreffion on the paper when previoufly oiled; Upon thefe fads are to be raifed a theory of fecretion ! Betwixt the fecreting veflels and the duds, in the pe-* culiar tiflue of which glandular ftrudure confifts, there is interpofed a fluid of that particular kind which is required to be fecreted, and when the blood is driven againft this tiflue fo imbued, no fluid but of a nature refembling that already depofited can be tranf- mitted. By this hypothefis they explained fecretion, making it,to depend on the attraction and repulflon of the panicles of the blood by fluids previoufly fe- creted. We may furely leave this clafs of phyfiologifts accounting for the original depofitation of the fluids in the glands without a wifh to fearch with them into the myftery of glandular fecretion. Commentators on this theory, by taking into the fyftem the adion of the nerves, indicated that they did not altogether forget that the body was alive Another fet of phyflologifls attributed the whole effed of fecretion to the velocity of the blood in the glands or fecreting veflels j-; others, to the length and curves of the veflels, and their adion upon the fluids* Again, others have been fatisfied with the round af- fertion that the vital adion was the effential caufe of fecretion. This, it ought to be underftood, rauft be univerfally acquiefced in, while yet there may remain an inquiry as to the apparent ftrudure of glands. * Conor, Tentamen epiftolare dc Secretione. f Boerhaave, Pitcarne, &e. Difap’INTRODUCTION-. Difappointed in obtaining an unexceptionable general theory of fecretion, we are only enabled to conclude, that while a power exifts in an animal body, direfting its aftions, perhaps both in the folids and fluids, and particularly in the mutual influence which they exert, the form, length, and activity of the veflels and dufts give occafion to the greater or lefs degree of intricacy in the operation of the principles upon which the fe- cretion depends. Let us then attend to the obfervations of the drift anatomifls, and to the appearance which the glan- dular viscera prefent under the knife. It is not perfeftly clear what the older anatomifls- meant by the expreflion Parenchyma* It would appear however to have faved them the trouble of inveftigation, and all abftrufe fpeculation. They meant flelh, yet not mufcular fubftance, but fuch as the liver prefents. This matter they feetn to have conceived to be formed by the blood. Thus Higmore defcribes the liver to be formed of the blood of the umbilical vein : the opinion originally of Erafiftratus. Previous to the time of Malpighi it is fruitlefs to trace the opinions of anatomifls regarding the ftruc- ture of glands. He was the firft who fopght to throw light upon this obfcure fubjeft by anatomical inveftiga- tion, and he made a more rapid progrefs than has been done by any man fince his day. If we take into con- ftderation the difficulties he had to encounter in a new field, and the prejudices of the learned with which he had to combat, his merits will be found greater than pven thofe of Ruyfch. The opinions of Malpighi were Received by thofe who, forfaking the authorities of names.*4 INTRODUCTION. names, faw the importance of the ftudy of anatomy. Ruyfch himfelf gave credit to the opinions of Malpighi in the early part of his life. But Ruyfch’s more atten- tive observations being contradictory to thofe of Mal- pighi, his maturer judgment rejected that anatomifl’s proofs, and with a boldnefs in which he was never remarkably deficient he invented a new theory, or at leaft alleged new faCts, and fwayed men’s opinions with an abfolute authority. Malpighi was an Italian, and born near to Bologna. Whilit yet a young man, being funk under the accu- mulation of family diftrefs, abforbed in grief, and loft to the confideration of his intereft, he received comfort and affifiance from his mafter, who urged him to em- brace the medical profeffion. His progrefs was rapid. After ftudying at Padua, he was called to fill one of the chairs in Bologna. He was then Solicited by Fer- dinand II., Duke of Tufcany, to be profefior in the uni- verfity of Pifa. Here he was aflociated with liberal men: and now only in his fecond profefibrfhip did he learn to defpife the fcholaftic learning of the time, and betook himfelf to experiment as the only means by which phi- Iofophy could be raifed from the oppreffive barbarifm of the Schools. Malpighi and Borelli were aflociated ; they diffecled together; they fuggefted thoughts to each other; they doubted, and canvafifed freely each other’s opinions; and were to each other an excite- ment and encouragement to perfeverance and induftry. They were Supported by government; popular in their teaching ; while they collected round them the learned men of the time. This was the origin of the famous Academy del Cimento. Malpighi was, after this, pro-*5 INTRODUCTION. the ■ feflor in Meffene, and died in the Qnirinal palace at Rome of a ftroke of the apoplexy *, after having been fome time phyfician to Pope Innocent XII. Malpighi had many enemies, and even fome of his colleagues were animated againft him with a difhonourable jea- loufy. Many laughed at his ftudies and occupations, as frivolous and abfurd. Something mull be allowed for men who had laboured with diligence to become learned ; for thefe, his opponents, had palled their lives in the ftudy of the Arabian writers. With them ftudies were enforced which held fcience in fubjedtion ; ftudies which, in place of invigorating, ferved only to chill and paralyfe exertion, and retard ingenious in- veftigation. Even Borelli, but from other motives, oppofed and cenfured fome of the diflertaticns of Mal- pighi. Malpighi has been confidered as the inventor of this department of anatomy, which the French, curious in diftindtions, have called the analytic method. He (hewed the impropriety of the term Parenchyma, as applied to the fiibftance of glands. He proved that the lungs, for example, (which they alfo called paren- chymatous,) were not flelhy, and had no refemblance to the glandular vifcera of the abdomen. He taught, that though glands are fmooth on their outer furface, they confift of lobules connedted by cellular membrane : and, upon a ftill more minute inveftigation, that they confift of innumerable little folicules or facs; that thefe are interpofed betwixt the arteries which convey * Two pounds of coagulated blood were found in the ventri- cles of his brain by Baglivi.16 INTRODUCTION. the fluids and the excretory dufts going out from them ; that the arteries, or the vafa afferentia, after ramifying and encircling thefe bodies, pierce them and fecrete the particular fluids into them. On other oc- cafions he defcribes thefe little glandular bodies as ap- plied to the ramification^, of the arteries, like fruit hanging by the branches of a tree. Malpighi threw in his liquid injections; diflefted and examined with the microfcope ; made careful ob- fprvations and experiments on living animals; and laftly, attended in a particular manner to the pheno- mena of difeafe. By difeafe no doubt parts fwell out and are magnified, and become diftinCt; but it is not a teft of the natural ftruCture, or implicitly to be United to. Srhtnu- of Malphftf/u# opinion. F Fig. i. Boerhaave’s plan of Malpighis doCirine. * a a folliculos glandularum fimpliciflimarum de- notat. b b b fingularia emifiaria cuique utriculo a, propria atque in communem canalein excretorium d,c, fuosINTRODUCTION'. l7 fuos humores demittentia qui tandem per hujus aper- turam r, emittantur. Fig. 2. is a fcheme farther to elucidate the opinions of Malpighi.. A, an artery entering a portion of a vifcus. B, the returning veins. C, the branch of communication betwixt the artery and vein which, ferves to circulate the blood, and convey a part into the veins. D, another divifion of the artery, which after various playful meanderings terminates in the folicule or little glandular bag E. F, the duffs which receive the fecreted fluid from the folicules. Ruysch fludied at Leyden under Van Horne, and at a very early age attached himfelf to anatomy and botany. At this time he brought himfelf into notice by a defence of the profeflors againfl: one Bilfius, who, although he was learned and acute, had attacked them, with all the weapons of a Charlatan. Returning to his native country, he was raifed to the profefforfliip of anatomy and botany in Amfterdam. It was here that Ruyfch made thofe difcoveries in anatomy, and that wonderful and fudden progrefs in practical anatomy, which not only raifed him above his cotemporaries, but has been the admiration of all fmce his time* Though new and various methods of preparing the body have been difcovered fmce the time of Ruyfch, yet there has been no approach to the ele- gance with which he difplayed the Itruflure of minute parts. It has been faid that, while others preferved the horrid features of death, Ruyfch preferved the human body in the foftnefs and freflinefs of life, ev^n to the expreflion of the features. We mult no doubt aferibe fome part of this encomium to the exaggeration Vol. IV. C naturalI 8 INTRODUCTION. naturally arifing from the novelty of the thing. But as to his fuperiority in the manner of difplaying the minute veffels of delicate parts, and his methods of preferving the parts in liquors, transparent and foft and to as to float in their natural folds, there can be no doubt. Neither can the minutenefs and fuccefs of his injections be denied : we have _cn many occafions in which we mud refort to the catalogue of Ruyfch’s mufeum for the true anatomy, to doubt his great fuccefs, or to quedion the truth of thofe encomiums which have been be- flowed upon him. Kings, princes, ambafladors, and great generals, but more than thefe, all the learned men of the time, crouded to the mufeum of Ruyfch. We mud not blame him if, whild others were merely fpeculating about the drudure of parts, he, furrounded by fo princely a mufeum, fhould Amply have laid open his cabinets, and bid them fatisfy therafelves whether or not he was right. Ruyfch’s preparations went to con- tradid the opinions of Malpighi. His injections, pulhed more minutely, (bowed thofe round bodies which are to be feen in feme of the glandular vifeera (and which Malpighi took to be little bags into which the fecreted fluid was poured) to be merely convoluted arteries. Ruyfch taught, that the minute arteries after making thefe convolutions terminated in the beginning of ex- cretory duds; that there was no fubdance or apparatus interpofed, but that, the veflels and duds were continu- ous. His opinions being formed upon the drength of more minute preparations, and a fuperior dexterity of anatomical invedigation, few anatomids c’nofe to be outdone, or to acknowledge that they could not fee 3 wharINTRODUCTION J9 C 2 The What he favv., This I believe to be one reafon of the rapid progrefs of Ruyfch’s opinions. i i The fmaller arteries which do not enter into folicules, but aTe convoluted. 2 2 The appearance of bodies or bags, but which are merely owing to the convolutions and tortuous figure of the arteries before they terminate in the excretory dufts. 3 3 Excre* tory ducts or veflels formed by the continued extreme branches of the arteries *. * Ruyfch’s doctrine again was thus oppofed: “ Ruyfchius “ auget arte fua replendi extenfionem vaforum ultra naturalem “ magnitudinem. Ruyfchius arte fua deftruit glandulas ; dein “ negat. Ruyfchius negat omnes glandulas. Melius eft & tu- “ tius omnia hsec demonftrare in cadavere recenti.” F. Ruyfch Ep’ft. ad Vir. Clar. Her. Boerhaave, p. 50. It maybe farther obferved, that it was not in the mere facft of there being folicules, in which Malpighi and Ruyfch differed ; for the latter conceded that there were hollow membranes, but contended that thefe were not glands. Their difference of opi- nion is expreffed in the following worfts of Ruyfch : “ Adeoque difcrepantia inter magnum ilium virum et inter me eft, quod ille putathumores delabi in glandulas dictas fimpliciftimas,—ibi foveri, mutari : Ego puto, quod arteriae ultima: luccos faciant, Sc fados ibi deponant.” t / 2INTRODUCTION-. 20 The opinions of Malpighi and Ruyfch have heM the fchools in perpetual controverfy ; mod anafomids however leaning to the authority of Ruyfch. There follows thefe a crowd of French academicians, who, With Boerhaave, may be confidered as mere commenta- tors on the original authorities of Malpighi and Ruyfch. Some of thefe argue for feeretion by con- tinuous veffels, and contend that the arteries terminate in the excretory duds; others, that the fecretions are made into folicules; and fome, as Boerhaave, infill that both are right in their obfervations, and in the proofs which they have adduced, that feeretion is in part performed by continuous veffels, partly by a more intricate glandular apparatus. As the forms of the parts which throw out fecre- tions have an infinite variety, it may be ufeful in this introductory view to point out thefe va- rieties-, and their appropriate names *. In the fird place, although in general language the term gland implies a fecreting body, yet this does not follow from the definition of that word. According to Hippocrates* it is a tutpid round body, foft, fmootb, and filming. Many fuch bodies, and which we call glands, have Ho excretory duds, and do not fecrete a fluid ; while, mod fecreting parts admit of no fuch definition* When, again, we admit the definition of authors who have taught their peculiar opinions regarding their ftrudure* we have a dill Iefs admiflible defeription. * The terms- acini, cotulte, crypts, foliculi, glanduls, la- yeunas, loculi, utriculi, have been alrnoft promifcuoufly ufed; feeing fo many names for bundles, bags, bottles, holes* and partitions. 6 ThusINTRODUCTION. 11 Thus Malpighi defined a fimple gland to be Mem- brana cava cuin emifiario and Ruyfch fays, Glan- dular nullm componunlur ex fola membrana cava cum emifiario, fed prarcipue ex vafis.” Thefe definitions of glands being optional and uncer- tain, it is necefiary to ufe names appropriated to the feveral varieties of form in fecreting parts. Indeed the term gland is inadmiflible as conveying any know- ledge of the minute parts of which the vifcera are com- pofed. We muff obferve, however, that there is a divifion of glands (till in ufe into conglobate and conglomerate. The firlt implies a gland fimple in its form, the iatter a gland having the appearance of an afiemblage of feveral glands*. Now there is no gland that has not more or lefs the appearance which is defcribed by con- glomerated ; that is, confiding of feveral parts, united by cellular membrane : and the diftin&ion is attended with no advantage. Acini form the lafl fub-divifion which we obferve in the vifcera, as in the liver; they are round bodies, not regularly invefted with membranes, and which can be teafed out into parcels of minute veflfels f. * As the falivary glands and the pancreas. Farther, the lymphatic glands are generally called conglobate glands, being fmooth and apparently fimple in their ftrudture ; but thefe, when injected, take exadly the appearance which fhould na- turally be defcribed by the term conglomerate, confuting of jnany little cavities. Thefe lymphatic glands, belonging to a (diftinfc fyftem, require no farther particular definition to dhtin- guifij them. f See farther of the acini of the liver for example, C 3 Crypt#INTRODUCTION. 22 Crypta are numerous in the body. We have an ex- ample of them in the great inteftines *. Crypta is a foft body, confiding of veflels not completely fur- rounded with a membrane, and refolvable by boiling or maceration f. Folicules are little bags appended to the extremity of the duds, into which the fecretion is made, and from which it is evacuated by the duds. Lacuna are little facs opening largely into the paf- fages, (as in the urethra,) and into which generally mucus is fecreted ; which, lodging there, is difcharged when matter moves along the paflage. Finally, we have to recoiled that every part of the body fecretes; that every furface is a fecreting furface ; that even that furface which is produced by an incifion no fooner ceafes to bleed than a fecretion begins. And that an ulcer in the fkin or flefli becomes by habit fimilar to thofe organs the peculiar fundions of which is to fecrete fome matter ufeful in the fyftem. This fad correds the notions which we ihould otherwife be apt to receive of the adion of fecretion from contem- plating the more complicated glandular organs. * Ruyfch ad Virum Clar. H. Eoerhaave, p. 53. f “ Cryptarum vafcula poffum docere, fed funt tam fubtiiia, ut reptatus non poffit didingui ; tantum circum affufarubedo per repletionem videtur.” Ruyfch ad Her. Boerhaave, p. 77.OP THE ABDOMEN’ IN GENERAL. C 4 conned 23 CHAP. I. * OF THE ABDOMEN IN GENERAL, AND OF THE PERITONEUM. 1 he abdomen is that divifion of the body which is betwixt the thorax and pelvis. It is bounded above by the arch of the diaphragm ; behind, by the fpine ; on the Tides and fore part, by the abdominal mufcles j and, below, the abdominal vifccra are fupported by the alse ilii and the pubis. The abdomen contains the vifcera more or lefs immediately connected with di- geftion, and the kidneys which fecrete the urine. We fpeak of the cavity of the abdomen; but it is an inaccuracy of language ; for there is really no ca- vity : The parietes of the abdomen, viz. the abdominal mufcles and peritoneum, clofely embrace the contained vifcera. To underftand what is meant by the cavity of the abdomen ; to underftand the connection of the feveral vifcera, and the manner in which they lie con- tiguous, while they adhere at certain points only ; we muft previoufly attend to the peritoneum. But, in the firft place, let us notice the outward divifions of the belly. OF THE REGIONS OF THE BEJLLY. To give greater accuracy to the defcription of the feat of the vifcera, or, perhaps rather, more ftri&ly to24 OF THE ABDOMEN IN GENERAL. the connect the knowledge of the internal parts with the outward marks of the belly, it has been long cuftomary to mark certain arbitrary divifions on its furface, which are called regions. The epigastric region is the upper part of the belly, under the point of the fternum and in the angle made by the meeting of the cartilages of the ribs with the fternum. Upon the Tides under the cartilages of the ribs are the hypochondriac regions, or the right and left hypochondrium. Thefe three regions make the upper divifion of the abdomen, in which are feated the ftomach, liver, fpleen, pancreas, duodenum, and part of the arch of the colon. The fpace furrounding the umbilicus, betwixt the epigaftrium and a line drawn from the creft of one os ilii to the other, is the UMBILICAL REGION. The HYPOGASTRIC REGION is of courfe the lowed part of the belly, confiding of the angle betwixt the umbilical region, the fpines of the offa ilii and the pubis. The two lateral fpaces betwixt the falfe ribs and the fpine of the os ilii are the iliac regions, or the loins. OF THE PERITONEUM. The Peritoneum, like all the other membranes of the body, confifts of an expanfion of denfe cellular membrane; yet it is what is called a proper or fimple membrane ; being a white firm thin contexture of cel- lular fubftance, in which no fibre or firiated appearance is to be obferved *. By its outer furface it adheres to * The meaning of fome anatomifts, faying that the perito- neum is a double membrane, will be feen below.* #note 1 . Opp. p. 25. Vol .W. Plan Droit big of die Abdomeit, Showing the Inflections of die Peritoneum/. Drawn by Published, for Longman Sc Pees, May gf'xSoa .OF THE -PERITONEUM. *5 The the adipofe membrane, on the infide .of the abdominal mufcles, and to the furface of the feveral vifcera ; its inner furface is fmooth, and forms no adhefion while the parts are found and healthy; its outer furface is loofer in its texture, and by the fplitting of its lamina it degenerates into the common cellular membrane. O The cellular membrane on the outfide of the peri- toneum is in fome places fhort, firm, and denfe; as on the liver, the fpleen, the uterus, and the inteftines : but it is longer, lax, and fatty, where it attaches the peritoneum to the mufcles and tendons of the abdo- men. The peritoneum has no termination ; or it is a fac; yet fo curicufly is it involved with the vifcera, that though we fay the vifcera are contained in the abdo- men, yet, accurately fpeaking, they are without the peritoneum, and confequently lie not in the abdominal cavity #. The peritoneum is expanded on the lower furface of the diaphragm; and at fome of the interdicts or perforations of that mufcle or its tendon it comes in contaft with the pleura, and adheres to it by cellular fubflance. From the diaphragm the peritoneum is re- flected off to the liver, forming the ligaments of that vifcus, and, expanded over its furface, it forms its outer membrane. From the diaphragm it is alfo fent off upon the oefophagus and ftomach, and prolonged to the fpleen on the left fide (as it is to the liver on the fight) fo as to form the ligaments of the fpleen. * See Hate I. and the explanation.26 OF THE PERITONEUM. The aorta, the great vena cava, the thoracic dud, and the kidneys, are behind the peritoneum; that mean brane being ftretched before them. But the inteftines are alfo in the fame refped behind this general invert- ing membrane; for it is merely refleded from the fpine and pfoas mufcles, and from the great veffels run- ning down upon the fpine, fo as to involve the intef- tines and form their outer coat. As it ftretches towards the trad of the inteftinal canal, it confequently involves the veffels of the inteftines in its duplicature, and forms the mefentery. The peritoneum alfo lines the abdominal mufcles: it is refleded from the diaphragm upon the furface of the tranfverfalis and redus abdominis mufcles. Here it is united to them by a loofe adipofe membrane, and from the abdominal mufcles it is continued upon the infide of the pubes. From the pubes it afcends upon the bladder of urine; defcends again behind the blad- der ; and there, making another refledion to mount over the redum and form the mefo-redum, it leaves betwixt the redum and bladder a particular facculus. From this detailed defcription we fee that the peri- toneum has no termination : that it is continued from the furface of the diaphragm to that of the abdominal mufcles ; from that over the bladder and redum ; from the redum in the whole length of the inteftinal canal; and from the inteftinal canal up upon the diaphragm. We fee then what is meant when it is faid that it is a fhut fac; we underftand by the cavity of the peritone- um merely the infide of this fac; and that when diftended with fluid, that fluid is contained betwixt the peritoneum2^ OF THE PERITONEUM. peritoneum lining the abdominal mufcles and that part of it which inverts or forms the outer membrane or coat of the intertines. This fluid, whether collected there by difeafe or thrown in by experiments, has no natural outlet, nor does it tranfude in the living body *. BLOOD*VESSELS OF TIIE PERITONEUM. As the peritoneum is a membrane of great extent, and inverting a variety of parts, its veflels come from many fources. It receives arteries and veins from the mammary veflels; from the phrenic and epigaftric veflels; from the lumbar arteries and veins; and from the ilio-lumbalis, circumflexa ilii, renal, and fpermatic arteries. It receives nerves from the intercoftal, lum- bar, and diaphragmatic nerves. It would appear that difeafe has given rife to the opinion that the peritoneum has in it many little glands. This is controverted decifively by Morgagni. * Soemmerringj Corp. Hum. Fab. Contemp. Peritonei, § iii. We not unfrequently find an accurate general defcription in authors, but fome incorreXnefs in the fubordinate detail ; which throws back the ideas of the reader into confufion. Such is the enumeration of the holes or perforations of the peritoneum, “ pour donner paflage a 1’cefophage, a la veine-cave,” See- See Anatom. Chirurg. par M. Palfin. We fee that there are no fuch perforations, that the oefophagus never enters into the cavity of the peritoneum, nor does the redum pafs out from its cavity. This was indeed explained by Fernelius in oppofition to Galen. See a defcription of the inflexions of the peritoneum by Bartho- lin.—Specimen Hiftorits Anatomies: AnaleX. Ob. I. OF28 OF THE PERITONEUM, OF THE USE OF THE PERITONEUM, The peritoneum ferves as a denfe and outer coat to the abdominal vifcera; conveys the veffels to them, as in the example of the mefentery; and, having its inner furface fmooth and lubricated by a watery fecretion, it allows the parts to lie in contact (they being ftrongly comprefled by the furrounding abdominal mufcles and diaphragm), and at the fame time allows in the intef- tinal canal a capacity of motion without fri&ion. There is no internal furface or cavity, as it is called, of the living body, which is not moiftened by an exu- dation from the veffels of the furface. Thus it is with the peritoneum. An exhalation from the extreme ar- teries bedews its furface, and is again taken up by abforbent veffels; fo that it does not accumulate in health, nay even fluids popred into the abdominal ca- vity will be taken up by the abforbents *. When the abdomen is opened in animals alive, or recently killed, as in the fiiambles, a vapour is feen to exhale from the peritoneum having a peculiar animal odour. Yet we ought not to fay that this vapour is collettecj in the; * See Nuck Sialograph, c. ii. p. 27. Qua eopia in ftatu fecundum naturam fecernatur diftu difficile eft: ad uncias certe collecfta aquulain fani horninis abdomine re- peritur. (Kaawn, 543.) In homine, cui fponte abdomen fub umbilico ruptum erat ad quinque Si fex libras de die ellluebat. (Journ. de Med. 1757 M. Aug. utdenique 800 libr. effluxereqt). This, however, proves nothing of the nature or quantity of the fecretion; this has probably been an inflammation and a.bfcefs of the peritoneum, which, we have feen, pours out fuch a quantity of fluid, thin and ferous, as quickly to drop through the bed-clothes upon the floor.OF THE PERITONEUM. 29 dead body ; for before the opening of the peritoneum, or the death of the animal, it is not in a date of va- pour, but is condenfed into a watery exudation *. I have feen, in the high ftate of inflammation of this -membrane, pus formed upon the furface without ul- ceration, and therefore, probably, from the fame -exhaling or fecreting furface; and coagulable lymph lying in flakes upon it. The increafe of the ferous difcharge forms the common afcites; but whenever the natural fecretion or exudation from the peritoneum is altered, adhefions are apt to form. One great ufe of the peritoneum is to retain the vifcera in their place, fays Haller; for when it is wounded they efcape, and fometimes with a fudden impetus, which makes it difficult to reduce or retain them f. But this is not from the want of the em- bracing of the peritoneum, but from the tendons or mufcles which fupport the peritoneum being cut; for when there is a deficiency in the fupport given by the abdominal mufcles, or their expanded tendons, the peritoneum does not prevent the vifcera from being protruded, but eafily yields to their forcible protrufion, and forms a fac involving this hernia. Nor do the procefles of the peritoneum, which have received the name of ligaments, nor the mefentery, nor mefocolon, fufficiently refifl: the prolapfus of the vifcera when they have efcaped from the preflure of the fur* * This vapour I have feen ai'iling from the inteftines of the human body during the operation for hernia; and alfo when the omentum and inteftines have efcaped in confequence of a wound of the belly. f Element. Fhyiiol. tom. ii. p. 380. rounding3° OF THE PERITONEUM; rounding mufcles. Sufficient example of this we have in hernia of the inteflines, in which the mefentery is greatly elongated., or in the difplacement of the fto; mach, or in the prolapfus and procedentia uteri. The peritoneum which forms the fac of hernia re- tains little elafticity, and does not (brink into the belly when freed from the outer adhefions; but the general peritoneum will allow great dillenfion, as in afcites, and quickly contract to its former dimenfions on the evacuation of the fluid ; and fo that part of the mem- brane which inverts the ftomach and inteftines the bladder of urine and gall bladder, has confiderable elafticity, fince it fullers thefe parts to be diftended and again returns to its former dimenfions. The confideration of the infufficiency of the perito- neum to retain the vifcera leads us to attend to a cir- cumftance of the greateft importance connected v.'ith the vifcera of the belly. The abdomen is everywhere (ex- cept towards the fpine) furrounded by mufcles. Above we fee,the diaphragm; before, and to the Tides, the abdominal mufcles; and even below, the parts in the pelvis are furrounded and compreffcd by the levator ani, in fuch a manner that the u'hole of the vifcera fufxer a continual preffure. This preffure upon the vifcera appears to be uniform and conftant, notwith- ftanding the alternate action of the abdominal mufcles and diaphragm as mufcles of refpiration : but it mud be occahonally very violent during exertions; in pull- ing, for example, or in (training, as a failor muft do in working of the great guns, or when pulling at the oar, or when balancing himfelf upon his belly over the yard-arm. And indeed by fuch violent and general comprefiionOF THE PERITONEUM. 3! compreffion of the vifcera of the belly, raptures are fotnetimes produced, of the worft kind, and followed by the immediate train of urgent fymptoms. The vifcera having in general delicate outer coats, and no ligaments capable of fupporting them, and being very vafcular, require the fupport of this preffure of the furrounding mufcles; and the great venous trunks which take their courfe through the abdomen are in a particular manner indebted to the preffure of the abdominal parietes. We mud recolleCt alfo the bad confequences which refult from the fudden relaxa- tion of the abdomen ; as in women after delivery, or in confequence of withdrawing the waters of afcites without due compreffion of the belly; languor, faint- nefs, and even death, are fometimes produced, appa- rently by the balance of the vafcular fyifem being de- ftroyed. Some good authors in former times have defcribed the peritoneum as a double membrane *. This was no farther a miftake than as they confidered the cellu- lar membrane, which lies without the peritoneum, as a part of it. It is neceffary to recoiled this in order to underftand the meaning of their calling the fheath of the cellular membrane, which accompanies the vef- fels paffing out from the abdomen, productions of the peritoneum. The vaginal productions of the perito- neum are the {heaths of the common cellular fubftance which accompany the aorta and cefophagus into the pofterior mediaftinum; or which give a bed to the * See Anat. Chirurg par M. Palfin, tom. II, p. 35. and note a. fpermatic32 OF THE PERITONEUM. fpermatic veflels, or palling under Poupart’s ligament accompany the veflels of the thigh. They are impro- perly termed productions of the peritoneum. The proper productions or prolongations of the pe- ritoneum are of a very different kind; they are the mefentery and omenta and ligaments : but, as I have explained in general how the mefentery and ligaments are formed by the peritoneum, and as they mud come prefently to be confidered more particularly, we treat no farther of them here *. OF THE OMENTA. The Omenta are confidered as fecondary procefles of the peritoneum, becaufe they are not formed by the peritoneum reflected off from the fpine upon the in- teftines, as the mefentery is,—it being a primary pro- cefs 5 but they are reflected from the furface of the ftomachand inteffines. Anatomiftsdiffinguiflithe omen- tum majus,—colico-gaftricum : the omentum minus,— hepatico-gaftricum; omentum colicum ; and laftly, the appendices epiploicae. The omentum, or epiploon, meaning thereby the great omentum, is a floating membrane of extreme delicacy, expanded over the furface of the fmall in- teftines, and attached to the great arch of the ftomach and inteftinum colon. Although this membrane be of extreme delicacy and tranfparency in the young • See farther of the peritoneum under the head Mefentery, Mefocolon, Defcent of the Tefficle, See. fubjeCl^33 OF THE PERITONEUM., fubjeCl*, yet it is much loaded with fat, and appears tranfparent in the interftices only ; and in advanced age it lofes much of its delicacy, and acquires a degree of difeafed confolidation or firmnefs, and is often irre- gularly collected into mafles,or adheres preternaturally to fome of the vifcera. * The omentum majus hangs fufpended from the cellular connection betwixt the arch ot the Itomach and the great tranfverfe arch of the colon ; or rather it forms that connection betwixt the ftomach and colon. It confifts of two membranes, or is as a fac collapfed and hanging from the Itomach and colon f, one of the Tides being the peritoneum reflected off from the eefo~ phagus and alongft all the great arch of the ftomach, and the other that which comes from the arch of the colon. And further, as each of thefe lamina may be fup- pofed to confift of two lamina ; for example, where the omentum is formed by the meeting of the peritoneum from the lower and upper furfaces of the ftomach; thefe two, meeting, form the upper lamina: and as, where the lower layer of the omentum comes off from the colon, it is alfo formed by the peritoneum reflected in the fame manner; fo with fome truth the omentum * Praeterea tenerrimas effe ut nulla membranarum humana- t?uin, retina oculi excepta, asque fit tenera. Haller, vol. vi. lib. 20. § 1. par. 12. While its delicacy is remarkable in the young fubjeft, the retl* form veflels (vid. Ruyfch. Ther. II. Q^V. Spegil. LV1II. &c.) have the fat accumulated in their traft as if it were thrown up by them to a fide ; but often the fat increafing obfcures the ve/Tels, f Marfupium the common term,—See Winflow, IV. § 352. Vujl. IV. D is!®P THE rERlTofttUfif. 54 is fuppofed to confift of four lamina of membranes of extreme tenuity : but thefe four layers cannot be de- monftrated. The great omentum extends from the Bofom of the fpleen tranfverfely, until it terminates on the right fide of the arch of the colon, where the omentum colicum begins. The great omentum varies confiderably in extent. In a child it is Ihort; in the adult further extended over the vifcera: fometimes it reaches only to the umbilicus ; fometimes it is allowed to extend its margin into the pelvis, fo that in old people it is very apt to form a part of the contents of hernia : often it is wafted and fhrunk ; fometimes colle&ed into maffes leaving the furface of the inteftines. OF THE OMENTUM MINUS OR HEPATICO GAS- TRICUM. This is a membrane of the nature of that laft men- tioned, but in general lefs loaded with fat. It is ex- tended from the liver to the lefler arch of the ftomach. It palfes off from the lower furface of the liver at the tranfverfe folia; from the folia ductus venofi; invefts the lobulus fpigellii; involves the branches of the caeliac artery ; and is extended to the lefler curvature of the ftomach and the upper part of the duodenum *. * “ Maeilentius eft,etvafa habet minora.” Winflow. Haller. Indeed it feems rather to anfwer the general purpofe of a cellular membrane conveying vellels, than the purpofes of the •omentum majus. . . . OMENTUM35 GF THE PERITONEUM. OMENTUM COLICUM. This is a continuation of the great omentum upon the right fide of the great arch of the colon, where it rifes from the caput coli; but it feldom extends its origin from the colon the length of the caput coli. It can be inflated like the great omentum. APPENDICES EPIPLOICiE, OR OMENTULA INTESTINI C ROSSI. These are little fatty and membranous proceflhs which hang pendulous from the furface of the colon : they are of the fame texture and ufe with the greater omentum and right colic omentum. We have mentioned that the omenta are double re- flexions from the peritoneum, and confequently they may be inflated fo as to demonftrate them to be perfeX facs. To do this it is not required to punXure any part of them, for there is a natural opening by which the whole may be inflated in a young fubjeX, and in a healthy Hate of the vifcera. This natural opening into the purfe or fac of the omentum is betwixt the membrane involving the veflels and duXs of the liver, and the peritoneum, where it inverts the vena cava betwixt the neck of the gall bladder and the firft turn of the duodenum, or where the lobulus caudatus hepatis touches the duodenum. By introducing a blow pipe into this.natural fiiTure the foramen ot Window, the omentum minus may be railed : the gaftro colic, and colic omenta may be in- flated. This opening ferves as a communication be- ■D 2 twixtOF THE PERITONEUM. 3<S twixt the cavities of the omentum and the general peritoneal cavity ; but I atn inclined to think it is very frequently deftroyed by adhefions * * * §. As this opening points towards the right fide. Dr. Monro thinks it a fufflcient reafon for introducing the trochar on the right fide in the operation of tapping for afcites, (con- trary to the ufual caution of avoiding the liver, which is fo often difeafed in this cafe,) and that by operating on the left fide he thinks the water will not be allowed to flow from the fac of the omentum f. It appears to me that it will flow equally well from whatever point of the belly the water is drawn. There is a confiderable variety in the form of the omentum of animals J, but fiill they feem to fliew the fame provifion of involving the inteftines, filling up the inequalities which arife from the rounded forms of the vifcera, and ftill further lubricating and giving mobility to the inteflines §. The furface of the omen- • Winflow, Duverney, and Haller. f Quer. If I fhould fay to a patient, By punffuring here I am in danger of thrufting this inftrument into your liver ; by introducing it here there is lefs poffibility of any fuch accident, though I may not draw off all the water ; what would be her anfwer ? J Haller Element. Phyfiol. tom. vi- lib. xx. § 2 and 3. § We mud not fuppofe that becaufe a mad man l'labs himfelf in the belly, and there is afterwards found coalition of the in- teftines to the wounds, the omentum has not done its office, (fee Boerhaavii Preleftioncs, vol i. § 45 ) no more can we give credit to the tale told by Galen |,De Ufu Partium, 1. iv. c. 9.) of the gladiator who loft part of the omentum, and ever after had z coldnefs in his guts ! at lead we cut out a great part of the omentum from a man without any fuch fenfation being the con- ference now-a-days;OF THE PERITONEUM. 37 turn, however, feems merely to furnlfh a fluid exuda- tion like the general furface of the peritoneum ; at lead; the idea which has been entertained of the oil or fat exuding is quite improbable *. The ufe afligned to the omentum of being fubfer- yient to the function of the liver is defervedly ne- gleded f. * “ Et dum halitu pingul & ipfa obungit 5c peritoneum.” Hale loc. cit. Boerhaave, 5tc. •f Viz. by fupplying a grofs oily matter to the venss portx. iOF THE MEMBRANEOUS VISCERA 38 CHAP. II. OF THE MEMBRANEOUS VISCERA OF THE AB- DOMEN *. Waving underftood the nature of the general inveft- ing membrane of the abdomen, and what is meant by its cavity and its procefles, we take a general furvey of the ceconomy of the vifcera, before entering upon the minute ftructure of the parts individually, The organs deftined to receive the food, and to per- form the firft of thofe changes upon it which fit it (after a due fucceflion of adlions) for becoming a com- ponent part of the living body, are the ftomach and inteftines primarily ; the glandular vifcera, the liver, pancreas, (and in all likelihood the fpleen,) as fubfer- vient or fecondary organs. I have been accuftomed in my leisures to divide thefe parts into the mem- branous or floating vifcera, (viz. the whole track of the inteftinal canal) and the glandular vifcera ; or per- haps, what is ftill better, they may be diftinguiflied into thofe parts which have aft ion and motion, and thofe which are quiefcent or poffeffed of no power of contraction. Thus the ftomach, inteftines, gall-blad- der, and bladder of urine (though this belongs to the * Although the term Vifcus implies more, particularly the fiefhy or folid contents, as the heart, liver, kidnies, yet we ufe it in general for all the parts contained in the great cavities.OF THE ABDOMEN. 39 pelvis) have mufcular coats, and the power of con- tracing their cavities; while the liver, fpleen, pancreas, and kidnies, have no mufcularity but in their veffels and excretory duds. This divifion of the vifcera may lead to important diftindions in pathology. During inflammation, it is obferved, that though the. parrs poffeffing a power of; contradion may fometimes lie inadive without pain, yet in thofe parts when roufed to adion there is excru- ciating pain. On the other hand, it often happens that the glandular and folid vifcera are the feat of long con- tinued difeafe, which is attended only with a dull or low degree of pain ; while the anatomifl is often {truck upon examining the body after death with the wide, ravages of the difeafe. We divide the inteftinal canal into three parts; the ilomach, the fmall inteftines, the great inteftines. The fmall inteftines are fubdivided into the duodenum, jejunum, and ileon. The great inteftines are fubdi- vided into the caecum, colon, and rectum. The fto- mach is the feat of the digeftive procefs : in the duo- denum the food receives the addition of the fecretions from the liver and pancreas, and is ftill further adapted to animalization ; in the long trad of the jejunum and ileon the nutricious part is abforbed ; and in the great inteftines the effete matters are carried {lowly forward, and at the fame time fuller a further abforption of their fluid contents, until as fceces they lodge in the redutn or laft divtfton of the canal. From this view it is apparent that as each divifion of the inteftinal canal is marked by feme peculiarity in its ufe or fundiop, we mud carefully examine their D 4 minute40 OF THE ABDOMEN. minute ftrudure as individual parts, at the fame time that we do not allow ourfelves to forget the univerfal connexion, the integrity of the circle of adions, and the eeconomy as a whole. With this intention, following the courfe of the food, and with a view alfo to con- ned the prefent fubjed with the lalt part of vol. iii. we treat firlt of the cefophagus. SECTION I. OF THE OESOPHAGUS. The oefophagus or gullet is a cylindrical tube, partly membranous and partly flefhy; which is continued from the pharynx down behind the larynx and trachea and clofe before the Ipine. Still continuing its courfe in the back part of the thorax, it perforates the dia- phragm, and expands into the upper orifice of the ftomach ; its ufe is to convey the food by deglutition into the ftomach. Although with many authors I call it a cylindrical tube, and it may take this form when diffeded from the body and inflated, yet during life it lies collapled with its inner membrane in clofe contad, and it tranf- mits the morfel only by the continued fucceflion of the contradion of its flelhy coat. The upper part ol tins tube is called the pharynx. It may be defcribed as expanding funnel-like, and is attached to the occipital bone, pterygoid procdfes of the fphenoid bone, and jaw bones; and further down it is kept expanded upon the horns or procefles of the os hyoidis* This bag is very flelhy, being furrounded withOF THE (ESOPHAGUS. 41 with mufcular fibres, which take their origin from the neighbouring points of bone ; as the ftyloid procefs, the horns of the Os hyoidis, the thyroid cartilage * ; by which it is enabled to grafp and contract upon the morfel when it has been thru ft by the tongue behind the ifthmus faucium. This ftrong tiffue of mufcular fibres which furrounds the pharynx, is continued down upon the cefophagus in the form of a (heath, which has been called vaginalis tunica. STRUCTURE OF THE OESOPHAGUS. I believe we can with propriety enumerate no more than two proper coats of the cefophagus ; its mufcular and internal coat: for that which is fometimes confi- dered as the outer coat, is only the adventitious cellular membrane, and the nervous coat is merely cellular tiffue connecting the mufcular and inner coat. The muscular coat of the cefophagus greatly fur- paffes in ftrength and in the coarfenefs of its fibres any part of the whole tract of the infeftina! canal. There may be very diftinftly obferved in it two layers of fibres; an external one confiding of ftrong longitudi- nal fibres, and an internal one of circular fibres. Thefe lamina of fibres are more eafily feparated from each other than thofe in any other part of the body f. But # See vol. i. p. 228. f It appears that the oefophagus can be ruptured in two ways: acrofs, by the tearing of the longitudinal fibres , and longitudi- nally, by the feparatk.11 of the longitudinal fibres,. This, though a rare accident, takes place in violent vomiting or {training to vomit, and, in the nrlt inltance, the tearing acrofs ot the cefo- phagusOF THE (ESOPHAGUS. 4* * + But an idea is entertained that the one fet of fibres, the circular and internal ones, are for contracting the tube, and the outer ones for elongating and relaxing it. I believe on the other hand that they contract to- gether, conducing to one end, deglutition *. What is called the tunica n rvea is the cellular connexion betwixt the mufcular and inner coat, and is very lax, infomuch that the mufcular coat and the inner coat are like two diftinCt tubes, the one contained within the other, and but flightly attached. This appearance is prefented particularly when the cefophagus is cut acrofs. The inner coat of the cefophagus is foft; glandu-* lar villi are defcribed as being diftinguifhable on its furface, and it is inverted with a very delicate cuticle to dull the acute fenfibility, and prevent pain in fwal- lowing. It in every refpect refembles the lining mem- brane of the mouth. The power, however, which the cefophagus feerns to pofl'efs of refitting heat depends not on the infenfibility beftowed by the cuticle, but is owing to the rapid defcent of the hot folids or liquids fwallowred ; for when they happen to be detained in the gullet they produce a very intolerable pain. This inner coat has an exhaling furface, like the reft of the body, with particular glands to fecrete and pour out phagus feems to be the effcdfi of the action of the diaphragm on the cefophagus. By this accident the fluids of the ltomach are poured into the cavity of the thorax. * See farther of the mufcular coat of the inteftines. *' It was at one time fuppofed that the mufcular fibres of the cefophagus- had a fpiral diree^iion.,, See Verheyen, and Morgan. Adver. far. iii. thatOF THE CESOPHAGUS. 43 that mucus which lubricates the paflage for the food *. The inner coat is capable of a great degree of deten- tion, but it is not very elattic, or at lead contraction of the mufcular coat throws it into longitudinal folds of plicae f. - In the neck, the cefophagus lying betwixt the cervi- cal vertebrae and the trachea, is at the fame time in a fmall degree towards the left fide. In the thorax it runs down betwixt the pleura of either fide, where they form the pofterior mediaftinum. Here, even when it deicends upon the dorfal vertebrae, the cefophagus lies rather to the left fide; it then paffes under the arch of the aorta, but quickly efcapes from under its compreffion and rifes on the right fide of the aorta, and as it paffes further down it gets more and more before the aorta. This is fufficiently apparent wrhen we attend to the relation of the perforations in the diaphragm for tranfmitting the aorta and the oefo- phagus. Behind the cefophagus, in the thorax, there are one or two lymphatic glands, which were underftood by Vefaliu§ to belong to the cefophagus. What deceived I * Thefe glands fufrer ulceration and fchirrous hardening, and are a terrible caufe of difficulty of fvvallowing. + Some part of the food lodging in the natural lacuna: of uhe cefophagus, or fome folid body, as the ftone of fruit4)eing received iuto them, has been the caufe of a fac forming in the pharynx or cefophagus And it has happened that fuch a fac, gradually and for years enlarging, has formed a bag, into which nearly the whole food, that fhould have paffed into the ftomach, was re- ceived, fo as to opprefs the cefophagus and occafion a lingering death. An example of this is to be feen in my mufeuin.44 OF THE OESOPHAGUS. him is an appearance generally to be obferved in thefe glands. The lymphatics, or the fmall branches of veins, are generally filled with a black matter, which, extending to the coats of the cefophagus, refemble very much the duds of the glands going to open into the cefophagus *. The inner coat of the cefophagus {hows fo very dif- ferent a texture from that of the ftomach, and this difference is marked by fo very abrupt a line, as fuffi- ciently to indicate that the fluids poured out from the cefophagus are very diftind from thofe of the ftomach, and have no power of digeftion. SECTION II. OF THE STOMACH. Seat, Form, Difplacement of the Stomach. The ftomach lies under the margin of the ribs of the left fide, and chiefly in the left hypochondrium. Its greater extremity is on the left fide, in contad with the diaphragm ; but towards the right, the {helving edge of the horizontal lobe of the liver is betwixt it ind the diaphragm. On the lower part it is, by the nefocolon and arch of the colon, divided from the mail inteftines; and to the greater extremity the : leen is attached by vefiels and by the loofe intertex- ture of the omentum. The ftomach may be faid to be * Thefe glands in the poftcrior mediaftinum are fomeliraes difeafed, and enlarged lb as to comprefs the oslophagus and to eaufe fo permanent an obdrudtion of deglutition as to kill. 4 a co-45 OF THE STOMACH. a conical fac; the extremities of which being made to approach each other, gives it the curve of a hunter’s horn, and gives occafion to the anatomift, in ftrift de- fcription, to remark thefe parts; the superior or cardiac orifice into which the oefophagus expands; the lower or pyloric orifice, which leads into the duodenum: the lesser and greater curvatures of the ftomach. The lefier curvature of the ftomach extends from be- twixt the two orifices; includes in its embrace the fpine, the aorta, and the fmall central lobe of the liver, while there is attached to it the lefler omentum. The greater curvature of the ftomach is the outline of its diftended belly, which riles above the arch of the colon, and is marked by the courfe of the gaftro-epiploic vefifels. When the ftomach is diftended the lower orifice is nearly on a level with the upper one; but when the ftomach is allowed to fubfide, it fails confiderably lower; fo that whilft the ftomach is lying acrofs the abdomen it is alfo tending obliquely downwards. The enfiform cartilage will be found to prefent com- monly to the middle of the ftomach ; and the lower orifice, when in its natural fituation, is oppofite to the foffa umbilicalis of the liver : the upper orifice is kept conftantly in one place from the ftrider connexion of the oefophagus with the diaphragm. Both orifices of the ftomach prefent backward, efpe- cially the upper one, while the lower one is pointed backward and downward. By the diftention of the ftomach the great arch is extended, the orifices are direfted more bapkward and towards each other, and efpecially the greater extremity draws upon the cefo- phagus.OF THE STOMACH. 46 phagus. By thefe means I conceive that there is fome* times produced a difficulty of the ftomach difcharging its contents when greatly diftended, the orifices being in a great meafure turned from the cefophagus and duodenum. The ftomach being liable to frequent varieties in its degree of detention, the natural relation of parts mufl frequently be altered. It ought to be particularly re- collected, that in the living body the ftomach is fup- ported and bound up by the inteftines: fo that the great curve prefents: and the broad anterior furface which the ftomach prefents in the dead body is turned direCtly upward, and the inferior downward *. By the collapfing of the ftomach and the confequent falling down of the liver fome have explained the fenfation of hunger, conceiving that the uneafy fenfation proceeds from the liver being allowed to hang upon the broad ligament f. From the great fimplicity of mechanical explanation phyftcians have eagerly indulged in them, but it will in general be found that when they are applied to the explanation of the phenomena of a living body they are inadmiffable. OF THE COATS OF THE STOMACH. The coats or membranes forming the ftomach are, the outer, the mufcular, the nerous,the vilous, and the three ✓ * Thus the gaftro-epiploic artery prefents dire&Iy forward. It has been wounded, and bled both into the ftomach and out- wardly. I fhould conceive it poftible in fuch a cafe to tie the artery. f Wiaflow. cellularOF THE STOMACH. 47 cellular coats. For thefe fubdivifions, however, I fee no ufe, nor are they authorifed by the natural appear- ance of the coats of the ftomach. When there is a diftinftion in texture, ftru&ure, or function, and where thefe lamina can be feparated, we Ihould confider them as coats; but a mere intermediate tifiue of vefiels, ,or the connecting cellular membrane, are improperly confidered as diPcinft tunics. First coat.—From what has been already faid of the peritoneum, it will readily be allowed that the outer coat of tjie ftomach is formed by the peritone- um ; a coat common to all the inteftines. Were this not fufficiently evident in itfelf, it might be afcertained by difieCting the peritoneum from the cardiac orifice of the ftomach, where it will be found reflected from the diaphragm. This coat is firm, Ample in its tex- ture, having no apparent fibrous texture, and fmooth on its outer furface, with many minute vefiels. Under the peritoneal coat is the firft cellular coat, being in faCt a fliort cellular tiflue betwixt the peritoneal coat and the mufcular coat. Muscular coat.—The mufcular coat of the fto- mach confifts chiefly of two lamina of fibres; lefs diftinCt however than thofe of the oefophagus, or, in other words, more clofely and irregularly connected. One fet of fibres runs longitudinally, that is, from the one orifice to the other; the other fet runs encircling the ftomach ; yet there are fuch irregularities that it is difficult in every place to recognize the two great and original divifions of fibres ; and on this account in general -three ftrata or feries of fibres are de? 5 fcribed.OF THE STOMACH. 4* fcribed *. For an example of this apparent irregularity* there comes down upon the flat fide of the flomach an irregular fafciculus of fibres, apparently from the longi- tudinal fibres of the cardiac orifice, and continued from thofe of the oefophagus, which yet take a courfe fairly encircling the flomach. They cannot be flri&ly faid to belong to either the circular or longitudinal feries, and in many places thofe which run longitudinally on the flomach feem to fink and lofe themfelves amongfl the lower fibres, or are reflected into tranfverfe fibres. Thefe mufcular fibres of the flomach do not run in an uninterrupted courfe, but fplit, rejoin, and form a kind of retiform texture through which the coats be- neath are at intervals difcernible. This flruflure would appear to bellow a greater power of contraction on the flomach. The flrong longitudinal fibres which are feen upon the oefophagus form the outer flratum of the mufcular coat of the flomach, and they extend from the oefophagus and cardiac orifice in a flellated form alongfl the upper curvature, and downward upon the great end or facculus ventriculi. Then we have to obferve a fet of circular fibres, which forming rings upon the great end, extend over all the flomach, like the circular fibres of the arteries. Thefe fibres do not each encircle the flomach entirely, but while their ge- neral dire&ion is circular, they are fo interwoven that * The moil general opinion is, that there are three layers of fibres in the flomach. Some defcfibe an external longitudinal feries ; a middle tranfverfe ftratum ; and again the internal fibres running longitudinally. See Galeati Acad, de Bologne. no49 OF THE STOMACH. iio one fafciculus can be followed to a great extent. Thefe are called the transverse fibres or stratum ; while the deeped dratum confids of the continued cir- cular fibres of the cefophagus. Thefe lad fibres are drong upon the cardiac orifice, and may be prefumed to form a kind, of fphinfter ; but they diminifh as they are'remote from the fuperior orifice. The lower or pyloric orifice of the domach, howevc,is more carefully guarded by mufcular fibres; having in the duplicature of the inner coats a didinct circular ring of mufcular fibres. The cellular tiiTue, being intermingled with the mufcular fibres, conne&s and drengthens them, and gives the appearance of little white lines interwoven with the mufcular fibres, and which fome have de- fcribed as fmall tendons *. There is alfo to be obferved a broad ligamentous band on the two flat furfaces of the domach towards the pylorus. They are like the bands of the colony but not nearly fo drong or evi- dent. They are formed by the denfer nature.of the cellular tiffue, and more intimate union betwixt the fird and fecond coats. OF THE ACTION OF THE MUSCULAR COAT. Upon confidering the weakaefs of the mufcular fibres of the domach, and the membranous nature of the whole coats, it appears that the general adtion of the domach is flow, regular, and by no means a for- cible contradion 5 not an apparatus for triturating the food, but merely giving motion to its contents. But * See Window, fed. viii. p. 57. Vol. IV. E regarding5® OF THE STOMACH. regarding the extreme fenfibility of the ftomach, and the gradual and regular fucceflion of adtion, much will be found that is worthy of attention. It fhould feem that the morfel is fent down into the oefophagus by a fuccellion of actions, preceded by a perfedt relaxation $ and that when the food arrives at the fuperior orifice of the ftomach, by the fame relaxation preceding the contradlion, the vufcular fibres of the upper part of the ftomach yield and receive the food comprefled by the oefophagus. Attending to the form of the ftomach, we fee a provifion for the reception of the food into the great facculated fundus on the left extremity. And here we (hall find that there is a greater profufion of veflels for the fecretion of the juices of the ftomach, and a fet of mufcular fibres, probably relaxing and yielding to receive the food, and excited to adtion only when the procefs of digeftion has been in part or en- tirely accomplifhed. We have proof that when the food has remained the ufual time in the ftomach, and comes in fucceflion to be prefented at the lower orifice, if the ftomach is healthy and the change upon the food perfedt, the lower orifice is relaxed, and yields to the contradlion of the mufcular fibres of the ftomach, and the contents of the ftomach are pafled into the duo- denum : but if the food has been of an indigeftible nature, it is rejedfed. The pyloric fibres refufe the ne- celfary relaxation, and by the unnatural excitement an antiperiftaltic motion is produced, and the matter is again thrown into the great end of the ftomach, or re- jedted by vomiting. There is in the natural adtion of the ftomach a ftimulus, followed by a regular fucceflion ©f motion in its fibres, conveying the contents from 6 theOF THE STOMACH. 51 the upper to the lower orifice of the ftomach. Of this excitement and action we are not confcious; but when the action is difordered by an unufual excitement, the lower orifice is not unlocked, the adtion becomes vio- lent (the reverfe of what naturally takes place), and pain or uneafy feelings are produced. Upon this principle may be explained the naufea and vomiting which take place at certain times after eating, when balls or con- cretions are lodged in the ftomach. While the food lies in the greater extremity, or in the body of the fto- mach, and the ball or concretion with it, there is no great excitement; but when it has fuffered the necef- fary change, and is approaching to the pyloric orifice, this part, being as it were a guard upon the inteftines, is fuddenly excited, vomiting is produced, and the ball is thrown into its old place in the facculus or great end. This great fenfibility, producing effedls almofl like intelligence, is apparent in the more common diforders of the ftomach. We fhall find the meteorifmus ven- triculi (the great diftenfion of the ftomach by flatus) exifting for weeks, and yet the food pafling in regular courfe through its orifices. We fhall find very fre- quently food of difficult digeftion lying in the ftomach and oppreffing its fundtions for days, while food more recently received may have undergone the adlual changes, and have pafled through the pylorus into the duodenum. Owing to the fame flow and fucceffive adtion of the ftomach, it often happens that ulceration and fchir- rus pylorus, or other obftrudtion of the lower orifice of the ftomach, is attended with pain, naufea, and vo- £ 2 miting,S1 Of THE STOMACH. the miring, only at ftated intervals after taking food ; i.e. a? the time in which the food fhould be fent into the in- teftines in the natural courfe of action. The mufcular fibres of the flomach are excited by ftimuli, applied, not to their fubflance, but to the con- tiguous coats ; and betwixt the delicate furface of the inner coat and the mufcular fibres there is the flriCteft fympathy and connection. The fame connection holds in a lefs intimate degree betwixt the cuter coat and the mufcular fibres; for when a part on the furface of the flomach of a living animal is touched with acid or ftimulating fluids, the part contracts *. The flomach is confidercd as lefs irritable than the inteflines, be- caufe it is alleged that a flronger dofe of a medicine is required to prove emetic than to aCt as a purgative : but we ought to confider that the aCtion thus excited in the inteflines is merely an acceleration of their fecre- tions; but vomiting is the interruption of the ufual ac- tion, requiring fuch a violent excitement as to invert the natural aCtion. But there is fomething more than this; as the func- tion of the flomach differs from that of the inteflines, fo may the quicknefs of their aCtion. Thus in the flomach a gradual change is to be produced upon the food, requiring time and a flow degree of motion ; but in the inteflines there is a greater agitation of their contents, and a quicker aCtion of their coats, to bring * “ In ea fede qua tangitur, contrahitur, fulcufque profundus nafcitur, etrugife; cibufque aliquando propellitur ut a fede con- tradtd fitgiat. Minus tamen quam inteftina ventriculns irrita- bilis eft : hinc emeticafortiora aecefle eft purgantibus.”— Haller.OF THE STOMACH. S3 the fluids into more general contaft with the abforbing furface, and to give greater activity probably to the ab- forption by the la&eals. I am inclined to think that the ftomach is the mod irritable part of the body, and fufceptible of the mod minute diftin&ions in the na- ture of the ftimuli applied to it. The phenomena of the living animal, and experiments in thofe recently killed, fufficiently prove the contradlile powers of the two orifices. Experiments have been made which {hew the powers both of the cardiac and of the pyloric ori- fices in retaining the contents of the ftomach after the oefophagus and duodenum have been cut acrofs. The ftomach of a rabbit has been fqueezed in the hand after cutting the duodenum, without any of its contents having efcaped *; and in fimiiar experiments, the finger being introduced into the lower orifice of the ftomach of an animal yet warm, the fibres of the pylorus were found to contract ftrongly upon it. Upon forcibly compreflmg the ftomach, the food will be made to pafs into the oefophagus much more readily than into the duodenum; which is another proot how neceftary the natural feries of actions is to the relaxation of the pylorus. Of vomittNG.—When there is an unufual or un- natural irritation on the ftomach, or when it is violent- ly ftimulated or oppofed in its natural courle of action, the motion becomes inverted ; and drawing by Jympa- thy other mufcles to its aid, the contents ot the ftomach are evacuated by vomiting. Thus where the food takes changes inconfiftent with healthy digeition j or when * See a paper in the 3d vol. of Sandifort, Thef. £3 folid54 OF THE STOMACH. folid matters lodge in the ftomach ; or when fecretions of the duodenum pafs into the ftomach, or unufual adtions are propagated backwards upon the ftomach from the upper portion of the canal; or when emetics are taken, which are unufual ftimuli; or when there is inflammation in the ftomach, which, from giving greater fenfibility, produces the fame effedt with more violent ftimuli; or when the coats are corroded or uh cerated ;—vomiting is produced. That vomiting may be produced by the inverted motion of the ftomach and oefophagus alone, is apparent from experiments upon jiving animals, where the abdominal mufcles are laid open, and from cafes in which the ftomach has lain in the thorax,and yet been excited to adtiye vomiting*. Again, it is equally evident that, when the ftomach is excited to vomiting, there is confent of the abdominal mpfcles, by which they are brought into violent and fpafmodic adtion ; not alternating in their adtion, as in the motion of refpiration, but adting fynchronoufly, fq as greatly to aflift in comprefling the ftomach : but at the fame time, the adtion of thefe mufcles, however forcible their contradtion, cannot alone caufe vomiting ; nor has this adtion any tendency to produce fuch an effedt on other occafions in.which the utmoft contradtion of the dia- phragm and abdominal mufcles is required to the com- preflion of the vifcera. Many have conceived that vomiting is entirely the effedt of the adtion of the ab- dominal mufcles and diaphragm. Such, for example, has been the opinion not only of j. Hunter, but of * See Wepfer de Cicuta Aquatica, p. 68.—Sauvage’s Vo- mitus. Duvemey,OF THE STOMACH. 55 Buverney, and of M. Chirac in Hifl. de l’Acad. des Sciences, 1700. M. Littre oppofed this notion, and contended before the Academy, that the contraction of the diaphragm was the principal caufe of vomiting. M. Lieutaud in 1752 fupported the idea that vomiting is the effect of the action of the ftomach. He found, upon diffeCtion, in a patient whofe ftomach had refilled every kind of emetic, that it was greatly diftended and become infenfible ; and concluded that the want of ac- tion in the ftomach, and confequent lofs of the power of vomiting, was a ftrong proof of the action being the effect of the contraction of the ftomach only. There are other more curious inftances of difeafe of the fto- mach preventing the mufcular contraction in any vio- lent degree, and confequently the abfence of the ufual fymptom of vomiting :—an inftance of this kind will be feen in Dr. Stark’s work. In my Mufeum, Surgeons’ Square, there is a preparation of a ftomach, in which the walls had become fo thick that they could no longer fuffer contraction by the mufcular fibres; the confe- quence of which was that, although the inner coat of the ftomach was in a raw and ulcerated flate, there was no aCtive vomiting, The fingultus feems the partial exertion of the fyin- pathy betwixt the upper orifice of the ftomach and the diaphragm, by which a kind of weak fpafmodic action is excited in it, but without a concomitant inverted ac- tion in the ftomach and cefophagus. It is a convuliive and fonorous infpiration, owing to an irritation of the upper orifice of the ftomach and cefophagus, but not exaCtly of that kind which caufes inverfion of the natu- E 4 ralS6 OF THE STOMACH. ral a&ions of the ftomach. Thus we have the hoquet des gloutons, the fingultus, from fome medicines and poifons, from fome crude aliment, or even from fome foreign body (ticking low in the oefophagus, or from inflammation. The bourborigmi and rumination feem to be gentler inverted a&ions of the upper orifice of the flomach and oefophagus, unaflifted by any great de- gree of compreffion of the ftomach by the abdominal jnufcles and diaphragm. The full attion of vomiting is preceded by infpira-. tion, which feems a provifion againft the violent excite*, ment of the glottis, and the danger of fuffocation from the acrid matter of the ftomach entering the wind-pipe; for by this means the expiration and convulfive cough accompanying or immediately following the adtion of vomiting, frees the larynx from the ejected matter of the ftomach. But the aftion of the diaphragm is far- ther ufeful by afting upon the mediaftinum, which embraces the oefophagus, and no doubt fupports it in, this violent action. NERVOUS OR VASCULAR COAT OF THE STOMACH, What Haller calls the nervous coat, is the cellular ftrufture in which the veffels and nerves of the flomach ramify and divide into that degree of minutenefs which prepares them for paffing into the innermoft or villous coat. It may with equal propriety be called the nervous, the vafcular, or the great cellular coat *. Taking it * To call it cellular coat, however, would be to confound it with the three cellular coats generally enumerated by authors. 4 as57 OF THE STOMACH, the as the third diftinft coat of the ftomach, it is conne&ed with the mufcular coat by the second cellular coat, and with the villous coat by the third cellu- lar coat, Striftly, however, it is the fame cellular membrane, taking here a loofer texture to allow of the free interchange and ramification of veffels. When macerated, it fwells and becomes like fine cotton, but has firmer and aponeurotic-like filaments interfering it, and it can be blown up fo as to demonftrate its cellular ftru£ture *. It is in this coat that anatomifts have found fmall glandular bodies lodged, efpecially towards the extremities or orifices of the ftomach. Villous coat.—This is the inner coat, in which the veffels are finally diftributed and organized to their particular end. It is of greater extent than the outer coats of the ftomach ; which neceffarily throws it into folds or plicae. Thele folds take, in different animals, a variety of forms: but they are fimple in man ; from the eefophagus they are continued in a ftellated form upon the orifice, but form no valve here. In the body of the ftomach they are more irregular, fometimes retiform, and fometimes they form circles or fquares, but they have generally a tendency to the longitudinal dire&ion. In the pyloric orifice the villous coat forms a ring, called the valve of the pylorus, which, how- ever, has no refemblance to a valve in its form or ac- tion. This ring is not formed by the inner coat of the ftomach alone, but by the inner flratum of fibres of the mufcular coat, the vafcular and cellular coats, and * Winflow, feet. viii. p. 64.5S OF THE STOMACH. the inner or villous coat. The effeft of all thefe coats, reflefted inward at the lower orifice, is to form a tumid and pretty thick ring, which appears like a per- forated circular membrane when the ftomach has been inflated and dried ; but in neither ftate is its direftion oblique fo as to aft as a valve. It feems capable of refilling the egrefs of the food from the ftomach, or the return of the matter from the duode- num, merely by the aftion of the circular fibres which are included in it. On the furface of the inner coat of the ftomach, fmall retiform rugae and a pile of innumerable villi are obferved. But thisftrufture of the ftomach has not been fo fully examined, and is not fo perfeftly underftood as the analogous appearance in the inteflines. Glands are alfo defcribed as opening upon the inner furface of the ftomach : and thofe who have not been at>Ie to fee thefe glands, which are feated in the third cellular coat, yet believe in their exiftence from analogy ; while others obferve foramina toward the upper and lower orifice of the ftomach, which they fuppofe to be the opening or dufts of glands. Thefe, however, which I believe to be merely cryptae or follicles, are themfelves the fecreting furface, and not the dufts of the proper round glandular bodies ; at the fame time it mull be admitted that difeafe, as if magnifying and giving fize to the ftrufture of the ftomach, fliews a glandular and tuberculated ftrufture. Gastric fluid There is fecreted into tfie.fto- mach a fluid, which is the chief agent in digeftipn, The moft common opinion is that it flows from the ' extreme59 OF THE STOMACH. extreme arteries of the vi'Jous coat in general, partly from the mucous cryptse and dudfts *. When pure, it is a pellucid, mucilaginous liquor, a little fait and brackilh to the tafte like moll other fecretions, and having the power of retarding putrefaction and dif- folving the food. It afts on thofe fubftances which are nutritious to the animal, and which are peculiarly adapred to its habits. It has, confequently, fome va- riety of properties in different animals. The fecreting powers of the ftomach feem fo far to accommodate ihemfelves to the food received into it, that the pro- perty of the gaftric fluid is altered according to the nature of the food. This affords another argument in favour of a Ample diet; fince, in a variety of con- diments received promifeuoufly into the ftomach, the chance is the greater of fome ingredient becoming an offenfive load. It feems to be a peculiarity in the human ftomach, that it has a greater capacity for digefting a variety of animal and vegetable bodies. But I Ihould at the fame time con- ceive that the natural power of digefting the Ample and appropriate food is diminilhed as the ftomach gains the power of difl'olving a variety of fubftances. In other creatures, a fudden change of food is reje&ed, and the powers of the ftomach are found incapable of acting duly on the aliment, though time fo far accommodates the gaftric fluid to the ingefta that the animalization becomes perfect. Mr. Hunter fpeaks of the power of * But I fhould cpnfider thefe glands rather as analogous to the mucous follicles of the cefophagus and lover portion of the inteliine, and merely as lubricating and defending the palfages. cattleOF THE STOMACH. 6c the cattle eating and digefting their fecundines *. I have known a cow die from this ; the membranes being found coiled up within the bowels. But the faft is fufhaently afcertained, that the nature of the digeftive procefs may be fo far altered that gratnenivorous ani- mals may be made to eat flelh, and carnivorous animals brought to live upon vegetables. This fact throws us back from the fimple idea which we fhould be apt to entertain of the nature of the change produced by digeftion, viz. that it is hmply chemical. For we fee that the nature of the folvent thrown out from the ftomach, and its chemical properties, may be changed by an alteration in the action of the coats of the lto- jnach. Thus we are baffled in our inquiries, and brought back to the confideration of this living pro- perty, which can fo accommodate itfelf to the nature of the aliment. The gaftric fluid has been collected from the fto- macbs of animals after death, by fponges which the animal has been made to fwallow, or which have been thruft down into its ftomach, incafed in perforated tubes. And, laftly, it has been obtained by exciting the-animal to vomiting, when the ftomach was empty ; for the fecretions of the ftomach are then poured out unmixed • with food f. Although by thefe means a Said may be obtained which may properly be called the fuccus gaftricus, yet it mull contain a mixture of the faliva, and fecretions from the glands of the cefo- phagus and pharynx, with the glandular fecretions of the ftomach, and the general vafcular fecretion from * See Obfervations on Digeftion. ■f By Spallanzani.OF THE STOMACH. 6t the furface of the ftomach. It is a fluid, then, upon which the chemift can operate with no hope of a fuc- cefsful or uniform refult. And indeed chemiftry feems no farther to aflift us in forming an accurate concep- tion of the changes induced upon the fluids in the ali- mentary canal, than that the more perfect, but ftill vefy deficient, experience of the modern chemift fuc- cefsfully combats the fpeculations of the chemifts of former ages. For example; it was formerly fuppofed that digeilion was a fermentation, and that this fermen- tation was communicated and propagated by the gaftric juice. It is now found that the gaftric juice has pro- perties the reverfe of this ; that it prevents the food from taking an acid or putrefactive fermentation; that it aCts by corroding and diffolving the bodies received into the ftomach; and that it is itfelf at the fame time converted into a new fluid, diftind in its properties *. It is almoft fuperfiuous to obferve, that the gaftric juice has no power of acting upon the coats of the ftomach during life ; whether this be owing to the pro- perty, in the living fibre, of refiftance to the aft ion of the fluid, or that there is a fecretion bedewing the fur- * The moll curious fa£t is that property of the coats of the ftomach, or of the fluids lodging in the coats of the ftomach, by which milk and the ferum of the blood are coagulated. It has been found that a piece of the ftomach will coagulate fix or feven thoufand times its own weight of milk. This aclion feems a neceflary preparation for digeftion, which {hews us that the molt perfeft and Amply nutritious fluid is yet improper, without undergoing a change, to be received into the fyftem of veflels. For example; milk and the white of eggs are firft coagulated, and then pafs through the procefs of digeftion. See J. Hunter, Animal (Economy, Obfervations on Digeftion. face,62 OP THE STOMACH. face, which prevents the adion, it is not eafy to fay j but more probably it is owing to the refiftance to its action inherent in a living part. Of digestion. By trituration and maftication, and the union of the faliva with food in the mouth, it is merely prepared for the more ready action of the fto- mach upon it. No farther change is induced upon it than the divifion of its parts and the forming of a foft pulp. But in the ftomach, the firft of thofe changes (probably the material one) is performed, which by a fuccefiion of actions fits the nutritious matter for being received into the circulation of the fluids of the living body, and for becoming a component part of the ani- mal. For now the galtric juice ad mg on this fluid mafs quickly diflolves the digeftible part* and entering into union with it produces anew fluid, which has been called chyme. The mafs has changed its fen* Able and chemical properties; it has fuffered the full action of the ftomach, and by the gradual and fuccef- five mufcular adion of the ftomach it is fent into the duodenum. The contents of the ftomach confift of air (partly fwallowed, partly extricated by chemical change, but frill more in all probability by the heat); of chyme; and of a grofier part incapable of beco- ming nutritious, and the reparation of which from the chyme is accomplifhed by the adion of the canal. Now the ftomach being ftimulated by fulnefs, by fla- tus, and more ftitl by the peculiar irritation of the food to which it is natural to fuppofe its fenfibility ia adapted, the mufcular coat is brought into adion, ancf the contents' of the ftomach delivered into the duode- num. Here having additional ingredients, it is farther changedOF THE STOMACH. ^3 changed in its nature, and approximates more to that of the fluids circulating in the veflels. It is called chyle; it has become a white milky fluid, which by the property of the living furface of the villous coat is feparated from the mafs, and abforbed by the ladteai veflels of the inteftines *. -Hunger and thirst. ,We are folicited to take food by the uneafy fenfation of hunger, and by the anticipation of the voluptuous fating of the appetite, and by the pleafures of the palate. Hunger is confi- dered as the eftett of the attrition of the fenfible coats of the ftomach upon each other by the periftaltic mo- tion of the ftomach and compreflion of the vifcera. This appears to be too mechanical an explanation. If the fenfation proceeded merely from fuch attrition of the coats of the ftomach, food received into the ftomach would be more likely to aggravate than to. afluage the gnawing of hunger; to excite the aftion of the ftomach would be to excite the appetite, and an irritable ftomach would be attended with a voracious defire of food. Something more than mere emptinefe is required to produce hunger. There appears to be a deficiency of the due ftimulus to the ftomach, and a confequent uneafy fenfation which is allayed by fulnefs. Hunger does not appear to be occafioned by ftimulus, but by a want of due excitement, by which the irrita- bility of the coats and adion of the veflels are as it were fullered to accumulate; and this tenfion, and irritation, and fulnefs of veflels, is relieved by the food, * See fan her of the lacteal and abforbent fyllem.. which64. OF THE STOMACH. which excites the aCtion, draws out the fluids, and gives activity to the fyftem of veffelsi Thirst is feated in the tongue, fauces, oefophagus, and ftomach. It depends on the ftate of the fecretions which bedew thefe parts, and arifes either from a defi- ciency of fecretion or from an unufually acrid ftate of it. It would appear to be placed as a monitor calling for the dilution of the fluids by drink, when they have been exhaufted by the fatigue of the body and by per- fpiration, or when the contents of the ftomach require a more fluid ftate,—the more eafily to fuffer the necef- fary changes of digeftion. The cardiac orifice is the chief feat of all fenfations of the ftomach both natural and unufual, as it is the molt fenflble part of the ftomach. Indeed we might prefume this much by turning to the defcription and plates of the nerves; for we {hall find that this upper part of the ftomach is provided in a peculiar manner with nerves, the branches of the par vagum. The fympathy of the ftomach with the reft of the inteftinal canal, the connection of the head and ftomach in their affeCtions, the effeCt of the diforder of the fto- mach on the aftion of the vafcular fyftem and of the {kin, and the ftriCt confent and dependence betwixt the ftomach and diaphragm and lungs, and in a particular manner with the womb, tefticle, &c. —and again, the connection of the ftomach with the animal ceconomy, as a whole,—muft not efcape the attention of the ftu* dent of medicine.65 OF THE SMALL INTESTINES. SECTION III. OF THE SMALL INTESTINES. The fmall inteftines are defcrlbed as that part of the mteftinal canal which is betwixt the pyloric orifice of the ftomach and the valve of the colon. They are reckoned in length at four or five times the height of the body : they form that part of the canal in which the digeftion is completed, and the nutritious fluids abforbed from the wafte of the ingefta. They are com- monly fubdivided into the duodenum, jejunum, and ileon ; or more Amply into the duodenum and intefti- num tenue *. OF THE DUODENUM. The duodenum ftands difiinguilhed from the ge- neral tra£l of the fmall inteftines by its fhape, connec- tions, and fituation. It is greatly larger than any other part of the fmall inteftines ; irregularly circular j more fleftry ; and, although it has fewer plicae, it is more glandular and more vafcular: but its greateft peculi- arity, and that which mu ft convince us of its impor- tance in the animal ceconomy, and of the neceflity of attending to it in difeafe, is this, that it is the part which receives the biliary and pancreatic dudls, and in which a kind of fecond ftage of digeftion takes place ; and that by the diforder of thefe fecretions it muft be primarily affected. The duodenum takes a courfe acrofs the Vol. TV. * Haller. F fpineOF THE SMALL INTESTINES. 66 the fpine from the orifice of the ftomach until it touches the gall-bladder. 1‘irft it goes in a direction down- ward ; then it paffes upward till it touches the gall- bladder ; then making a fudden turn it defcends di- rectly near to the right kidney, and is then involved in the lamina of the mefocolon ; it then takes a fweep towards the right fide, obliquely acrofs the fpine, and a little downward ; it afterwards runs behind the head of the pancreas and the great veffels palling to the fmall inteltines betwixt the vena cava and the vena porta; ; and then again toward the left of the aorta, but (till bound down by the root of the mefocolon *. This portion of the intefiine receives its name from being ufually meafured off twrelve fingers breadth, or from five to fix inches, from the orifice of the ftomach. I have always preferred, however, a natural and not an arbitrary divifion, and have confidered that portion of the inteltines as duodenum, which is above the lower lamina of the mefocolon, or the point at which it emerges from the ItriCture of the mefocolon. As in this extent, befides being tied down to the fpine by the mefocolon, it has the peritoneum reflected off from it ■at other points, we have to remark the ligamentum duodeni tenale, ligamentum duodeni hepaticum. Although we lhall prefenily treat of the coats of the fmall inteltines in general, yet it may not be improper here to obferve what are announced as peculiarities in * How comes it then, feeing the acute turns of this intefiine, that Ruyfch calls it “ Inteflinurn digitale, vel inteftiaum reftum breviffimum ?” Adverfar. Anat. Decad. II. See a good defcription of the duodenum by M. Laurent Bo- naaaoli, in the Traafaciions of the Academy of Bologna.OF THE SMALL INTESTINES. 67 the coats of this firft divifion. The firft: or peritoneal coat is imperfect, as mull; already be underftood : for it does not invert the whole circumference of the gut; it ties it down more clofely, or it merely contains it in its duplicature, while a greater profufion of cellular mem- brane accompanies this than the other divifions of the intertines. The mufcular coat is ftronger than that of the jejunum and ileon ; the plies formed by the inner coats, fmaller than thofe of the other part of the fmall inteftine, and having more of a glandular ftru&ure. At the lower part of the firft incurvation of the duode- num, the inner coat forms a particular procefs like to thofe which are called valvulae conniventes ; and in this will be difcovered the opening of the biliary du6t, within which alfo the dudlus pancreaticus generally opens. It is not without fome reafon that anatomifts have confidered the duodenum as a feCond ftomach, calling it ventriculus fecundus, and fuccenturiatusj for there is here performed a change upon the food, converting the chyme, (as they have chofen to call it,) which is formed in the ftomach, into perfect chyle. But to fuppofe that the chyme is perfected in the duodenum, is to fuppofe the biliary and pancreatic fecretions ne- ceflary to the formation of chyle; a point which is not allowed: for many fuppofe that the bile is merely a ftimulus to the inteftines, holding a controul over their motions; others, that it is ufeful only in fepara- ting the chyle from the excrement; or again, that the bile is decompofed, part entering into the compofition of the chyle, while the other goes into that of the faeces; it feerns to beftow upon them a power of fti- F 2. muLatingOF THE SMALL INTESTINES. 68 mutating the inteftinal canal in a greater degree; and as the chyle is formed occafionally without the pre- fence of bile, we may be induced the more readily to allow that the bile does not in the natural attions and relations of the fyftems enter into the compofition of the chyle. At all events, we fee that it is the bile which is the peculiar ftimulus of the inteftinal canal, and that when interrupted in its difcharge from the duifts, the motions of the belly are flow, and coftive- iiefs is the conference. We fee, then, that at all events there are poured in- to the duodenum from the liver and pancreas, fecretions which have an extenftve effect on the fyftein of the vifcera ; and we muft acknowledge that the defange- ment of tbefe fecretions muft operate as a very frequent and powerful caufe of uneafinefs, and-that the duode- num muft often be the feat of difeafe and diftrefling fymptoms. We may obferve that, from the courfe of the duodenum, pain in it fliould be felt under the feventh or eighth rib, paffing deep, feeming to be in the feat of the gall-bladder, and ftretching towards the right hypochondrium, and to the kidney, and again appearing as if on the loins. We may obferve farther, that from the connections of this portion of the intef- tine, and from the manner in which it is braced down by the mefocolon, fpafm, when flatus is contained in it, will fometimes produce racking pains. Nay farther, when the irregularities of digeftion affeCt the duode- num, and fpafm and diftention follow; the diftention caufes it to prefs upon the gall-bladder, and the pref- fure and the excitement together caufe an irregular and often an immoderate flow of bile, which with the acridOF THE SMALL INTESTINES. 69 acrid flate of the food produces anxieties and increafed pain, inverted motion, vomiting, and even cholera*. We mull not forget, that the inverted adtion of the ftomach draws quickly after it the inverted motion of the duodenum. It may be of confequence to attend to this in the operation of an emetic, for the ftomach will fometimes appear to be difcharging foul and bili- ous matter which we naturally may fuppofe to have been lodged in it, but which has actually flowed from the duodenum, or has even come recently from the dudts in confequence of the operation of the vomitf. From a defect in the natural degree of the ftimula- ting power of the bile, it will accumulate in the duode- num, occafioning anxiety and lofs of appetite, and even congeftion of blood and a jaundiced {kin ; we may cer- tainly affirm that thefe at leaft are often connected. Such accumulation in the duodenum mad be attended with a languid action of the whole canal, and inactivity of the abdominal vifcera, becaufe the periftaltic motion is begun here in the natural adtion of the interlines; and if its peculiar famulus be deficient, fo muft that of the whole fyllem of the vifcera. Hence the neceffity of roufing and evacuating the whole canal. 1 may farther obferve, that it has been the opinion of the molt refpedtable old phyficians, thofe whofe * Indeed vomiting in confequence of concufiion and compref- fion upon the whole contents of the abdomen, and in a par- ticular manner on the liver, affords mod; powerful means of operating upon the infarction and remora of the blood in the hepatic fyftem. -j- See Sandifort, vol. iii. p. 288. See Hoffman. F 3 knowledgeOF THE SMALL INTESTINES. 7o knowledge of difeafes has been drawn from an acquaint- ance with anatomy, from the frequent infpe&ion of dead bodies, and the obfervation of the fymptoms du- ring life, that the ftudy of the difeafes connected with the duodenum is the mofl important which can occupy the attention of the medical enquirer. OF THE SMALL INTESTINES IN GENERAL. The fmall inteftines, under the name of jejunum and ileon, occupy- the fpace in the middle and lower part of the abdomen, the great mafs forming convolu- tions in the umbilical region. The cylindrical canal of the fmall inteftines is gradually and imperceptibly diminifhed in diameter as it is removed from the lower orifice of the ftomach ; fo that the termination of the ilion in the caput coli is confiderably fmaller than the duodenum. This tract of the fmall inteftines performs the moft important function of the chylipoetic vifcera (if any can be faid to be peculiarly important where the whole is fo ftridtly connected); for here the food is moved flowly onward through a length of inteftine more than four times the length of the body *, and ex- pofed to a furface amazingly extended by the pendu- lous and loofe duplicatures of the inner coat. Here the faeces are gradually feparated from the chyle, and the chyle adhering to the villi is abforbed and carried into the fyftem of veffels. * The whole length of the inteftinal canal is generally eftimated at from fix to feven times the length of the whole body.7* OF THE SMALL INTESTINES. The jejunum * is the upper portion of the fmall inteftine. Its extent is two-fifths of the whole. Its convolutions are formed in the umbilical region. The ileon lies in the epigaftric and ileac regions,fur- rounds the jejunum on the fides and lower part, and forms three-fifths of thewholeextent of the inteftine from the mefocolon to the valve of the colon. The coats of the ileon are generally defcribed as thinner and paler; the valvular projections of the inner coat lefs confpicuous; and the mucous glands are apparent in the lower por- tion. The feveral parts however of this, which we may call the long inteftine f, do not preferve a very exaCt relation in regard to their place in the belly, but in their motions they may be drawn to the right or left, upward or downward. This however I am convinced takes place in a much lefs degree than is generally be- lieved. There is fometimes found a lufus in the lower part of the ileon before it palfes into the colon; a blind pouch or caecum is, as it were, attached to the ilion refembling the caput coli. 1 have found this in one * So named from its being more generally empty. Indeed the higher parts of the canal can never be diftended, becaufe the contents pafs ilowly and gradually and with little inter- ruption through them ; but they are in a manner accumulated below. f We may then fpeak of the fmall inteftines in general, mean- ing the whole tract from the itomach to the great inteftine ; the duodenum being the fpace betwixt the ftomach and the lower lamina of the mefocolon, the long inteftine being the trait ex- tending from the duodenum to the colon. f4 inftance72 OF THE SMALL INTESTINES. The inftance only. Sometimes there is more than one in the courfe of the ileon *. MINUTE STRUCTURE OF THE SMALL INTESTINES. We have in fome meafure anticipated the genera! enumeration and chara&er of the coats of the inteftines, by what has been faid upon the coats of the ftomach; for we have here to diftinguifh the four great coats, the peritoneal, the mufcular, the vafcular, and villous coats, THE PERITONEAL COAT AND MESENTERY. The peritoneal coat of the fmall inteftines is of the fame nature with that of the ftomach, liver, fpleen, &c. It is a thin, fmooth, pellucid membrane. On the fur- face it has a moifture exuding from its pores; and it firmly adheres to the mufcular fibres beneath. Its tranfparency makes the mufcular fibres, blood-veflels, and lymphatics eafily diftinguifhable; and when it is differed or torn up, the longitudinal mufcular fibres will be found in general attached to it. Its ufe is to give a fmooth furface and ftrengthen the inteftine, and in a great meafure to limit the degree of this diften- tion. * The appendices cscales of the ileon have given birth to a curious queilion in the pathology of hernia. See “ Hernia ab ilii divertjculo ” Morgagni, Adv. Anat. III. “ Hernie forrnee par l’appendice de l’ileon.” Littre, Mem. de l’Acad. Royale dcs Sciences, an 1700; Ruyfch, Palfin, otc. See cafes of anus, at the groin in the Mufeum, Surgeons’ Square. 5of the Small intestines. 73 The The peritoneal coat of the inteftine is continued and reflected off upon the veffels and nerves which take their courfe to the inteftine: or, what is the fame thing, and indeed is the more common defcription, the two lamina of the peritoneum which form the mefen- tery, after proceeding from the fpine and including the veffels, nerves, and glands belonging to the traCt of the inieltine, invert the cylinder of the intertine un- der the name of peritoneal coat *. The mefentery is compofed of membranes, glands, fat, and the feveral fyftems of veffels, arteries, veins, ladteals, and nerves. As in reality it is a production of the peritoneum, it may be faid to arife from the mefocolon, or the mefo- colon from the mefentery, reciprocally. But at pre- fent we may trace the mefentery from the root of the mefocolon;—for the jejunum, emerging from under the embrace of the mefocolon, carries forward the peri- toneum with it; and the laminse of the peritoneum, meeting behind the gut, include the veffels which pafs to it and form the mefentery. This connection of the fmall intertines by means of the prolongation of the peritoneum, while it allows a confiderable latitude of motion, preferves the convolutions in their relations, and prevents them from being twilled or involved. But it is by the walls of the abdomen that the inteftines as well as the more folid vifcera are fupported; for when the bowels efcape by a wound, a portion of an inteftine will hang down upon the thigh, unrellrained by the connexion with the mefentery. * See Plate I. 5. 6. 7. 8.74 OF THE SMALL INTESTINES. The mefentery begins at the laft turn of the duode- num, or beginning of the jejunum, Its root runs obliquely from left to right acrofs the fpine. Here it has no great extent; but as it is prolonged toward the inteftines, it fpreads like a fan, fo that its utmoft margin is of very great extent; which may be con- ceived when we confider that it is attached to the whole extent of the frhall inteftines. In the middle of the fmall inteftine, the mefentery has its greatefl extent or breadth ; towards the beginning of the duodenum and the termination of the ilion, it is fhorter, and more clofely binds down the inteftine. MUSCULAR COAT OF THE INTESTINES. There is not a more important point of confidera- tion in the anatomy of the vifcera, than this of the ac- tion of the mufcular coat. The appearance aad courfe of the fibres fha.ll firft be defcribed, then their abtion, and laftly their effeft in difeafe. The peritoneum is united to the mufcular coat by a very delicate and denfe cellular membrane ; which in the enumeration of the coats we mult call the firft cellular coat, but which really does not deferve the name of a diftinbt coat; for, as already faid, the outer lamina of the mufcular coat is raifed with the peritone- um, and adheres intimately to it. The fibres of the mufcular coat of the inteftines are fimpler than thofe of the ftomach; for here there are only two fets of fibres, the longitudinal and circular fibres. The outer ftratum confifts of the very minute and delicate longi- 4 tudinal75 OF T HE SMALL INTEST1NE.S. tudinal fibres. Indeed, when the fvftem has been ex- haufted by a long and debilitating illnefs with fcarcely any excitement of the inteflinal canal, thefe fibres are not to be obferved. In a man who has been cut fud- denly off by difeafe, or who has died a violent death, they become more demonftrable ; and in difeafes where there has been congeftion and excited adtion in the inteftines, they are of courfe ftill fironger and more difcernible. The internal ftratum of the mufcular fibres is much fironger and more eafily demonftrated. Thefe fibres will be obferved much fironger about the duodenum and upper part of the jejunum, but they become weaker and more pellucid towards the extre- mity of the ileon. Tracing any particular fibre of the circular ftratum, it is found to form only a fegment of a circle, a part of the circuti of the inteftine. It feems loft amongft neighbouring fibres or cellular connec- tions ; but ftill, taken together, the circular mufcular fibres uniformly furround the whole gut *. To account for that adtion of the inteftines which urges on the food, we may fuppofe a greater degree of irritability and a&ivity to refide in the upper portion, where of courfe is commenced that adtion which is fuccefiively propagated downward, carrying the faces into the lower part of the canal. Some anatomifts have ingenioufly imagined that the inner ftratum of fibres furrounds the inteftine not in a circular diredlion, as was aflerted by Willis, but obliquely and in a fpiral courfe; from which followed a fimple explanation of * Morgagni Advcrfaria Anatomica III. Animadverfio V. their76 OF THE SMALL INTESTINES. their effeCt, fince the contraction of the fibre winding lower in the inteftine purfued the contents with a uni- form progreflive conftriCtion. Phyfiologifis have made a diftinCtion in the motion which they have obferved in the inteftines of living animals. The one they call the vermicular, and the other the periflaltic motion. Upon looking into the belly of a living animal, or of one newly killed, there may be obferved a motion among the inteftines, a drawing-in of one part and a diftention and elongation of another part of the convolution. This motion has fome refemblance to the creeping undulating motion of a reptile, and has got the name of vermicular mo- tion. On the other hand, the direCt contraction of the gut by the conftriCtion of the circular fibres is the periftaltic motion. We muft not however allow ourfelves, from the loofe expreftion of authors, to imagine, that thefe circular {freight fibres aCt feparate- ly: on the contrary, excited by the fame ftimulus, they have a fimultaneous motion to the effeCt of ac- complilhing the perfeCt contraction of the gut and motion of its contents *. While the ftimulus is natural, the contraction of the mufcular coat is in a regular feries from above down- ward, and, the lower part contracting before the upper is completely relaxed, the food muft be urged down, ward into the lower portion. I fhould even imagine that the lower portion is relaxed, from its more ufuat * Neither can I allow that the afting of the longitudinal fibres in one portion of an inteftine dilates that which, is below, other, ways than by the compre'Tion of food and flatus. degreeOF THE SMALL INTESTINES. 77 degree of tenfion, or flighter permanent degree of aCtion *. ANTI PER 1ST ALTIC MOTION. When the fucceflive contraction of the mufcular fibres of the inteftines is oppofed in its natural courfe downward, either by a violent ftimulus (the effeCt of which is to caufe a more permanent contraction in the coats, and one which does not readily yield to the relaxation that follows, as in the natural contraction), or when there is a mechanical and obftinate interrup- tion to the contents of the bowels; then is the natural aCtion reverfed. This antiperiftaltic motion mutt arife thus; a portion of the intefiine being conuriCted, and not yielding to the contraction which in the natural ac- tion of the gut fliould follow in order, the motion of the gut muft be (tationary for a time, until the part above is again relaxed; when, the contents of the intefiine finding a free palfage upwards, and that portion contracting and propelling the matter fiill upwards and retrograde, (fince it is oppofed by the contraction below,) a feries of retrograde or antiperiftaltic motions are produced. The courfe of the aCtion is changed j the contraction w From the experiment of Haller and of others, it is proved that the irritability of the inteftines long furvives that of the heart: that the inteftines are in general in lively motion, when no motion can be obferved in the ftomach : but that fometimes the motion of the ftomach continues longer than that of the inteftines. It is proved alfo that the aftion of the inteftine is adequate to the motion downward and the difeharge of feeces, without the aid of the abdominal mufcles. See Mem. par Haller fur Us Mcuvsrr.cr.s dss Intejlines. of78 OF THE SMALL INTESTINES. of the gut is not followed by the dilatation of the part below, but by that of the part above. By this means -the matter of the lower portion of the inteftinal canal is carried into the upper part, and there aCting as an unufual ftimulus it aggravates and perpetuates the un- natural aCtion. Nay, from experiments it appears that a permanent irritation will caufe an accelerated motion in both directions, that from the point ftimulated there will proceed downward the regular feries of contrac- tions and dilatations, while the motion is fent upwards and retrograde from the fame point of the inteftine toward the ftomach *. And this obfervation, the exhi- bition of medicine and the difeafes of the inteftines confirm. But farther we may obferve, that the food is not uniformly moved downward; it is fhifted and agitated by an occafional retrograde motion thus: The portion of the inteftine included under A con- tracts and fends its contents into B. B contracting fends its fluid contents in part backward into A, but * Haller, Ioc. cit., Expsr. 424. inOF THE SMALL INTESTINES. 79 in a greater proportion into C. While the contents of the middle portion are fent into the lower part in a greater proportion than into the higher divifion, the tendency of the food will be in its natural courfe, downward ; wbilft at the fame time it fufFers an alter- nate motion backward and forward ; fo that it is more extenfively applied to the abforbing furface of the inteflines. The ftimulus to the inteflines is matter applied to their inner coat ; and although there is much fympa- thy in the whole canal, yet unlefs there be matter within a portion of the canal, that particular part has little action. Accordingly, when there is obflruction to the courfe of the aliment, by whatever caufe it may be produced, the portion below becomes fhrunk and pale, and free from the eftedts of inflammation ; while that ftimulated by the food, being in a high date of excitement, irritated by the prefence of matter which it is unable to fend forward, evacuated only partially by an unnatural and highly excited retrograde adtion, it becomes large, thick in its coats, flrong in its muf- cular fibres, and greatly inflamed, till it terminate at laft in gangrene *. The unufual excitement of the mufcular fibres pro- duces a very curious effedi in the intus-fufceptio, or the * Haguenot gives an experiment illuftrating the caufe of ileus. He tied a ligature about the inteftine of a cat, and found no an- tiperiftaltic motion excited. This is not wonderful; it is the excitement arifmg from matter within the gut, to which there is no exit, and not the ftriiture of it, which is the caufe of the vio' lent fymptoms.—A cafe in the Mufeum will give the young fiudent a corrett judgment on this fubjeft. flipping80 OF THE SMALL INTESTINES. flipping of one portion of the gut within another*. This may be done by applying acrid matter to the in- teflines of living animals; and I have no doubt that it has been produced by giving purges too ftrong and ftimulating in cafes of obftru&ion of the bowels. By the contractions of the murcular coat greatly excited, the inteftine is not only diminifhed in diameter fo as to refemble an earth-worm *, but in length alfo. This great contraction of the outer coats accumulates the vafcular and villous coat as if into a heap ; which from the compreflion of the mufcular coat is forced into the neighbouring relaxed portion. This firft ftep leads only to a fucceflion of actions; for the fibres of the relaxed or uncontra&ed part, fenfible to the prefence of this accumulated and turgid villous coat, contracts in fucceflion fo as to draw a part of the contracted gut within the relaxed portion. If the irritation is done away or ceafes quickly, as in the experiments on ani- mals, another turn of the inteftine coming into play diflends this, and undoes the intus-fufceptio. But if the caufe continues, the intus-fufceptio is continued; the included part of the gut is farther forced into the other. By thefe means the veflels going to the in- cluded part are interrupted; the villous coat fwells more and more ; and feveral feet of the upper portion of the inteftine is often in this way fwallowed down. It is not however in the natural courfe downward that this preternatural adtion always proceeds; for, as the excitement is violent and unlike the ufual ftimulus of * See Haller’s Experiments ; and “ DifTeflions of the Atro- phia A-blaftatQrum with plates; by Dr. Cheyne. food,8 £ OF THE SMALL INTESTINES* Food, and as we know that an unufual excitement Is very apt to caufe an inverted action, it often happens that the intus-fulception is formed by the lower portion of the gut included in the upper part* VASCULAR COAT. This third coat of the inte{lines,or what is commonly called the nervous coat, is a ftratum of cellular mem- brane in which the veflels of the gut are diflributed. It might with equal propriety be called the cellular coat; and is indeed what fome anatomifts have called the third cellular coat. By inverting the gut and blowing ftrongly into it, the peritoneal coat cracks and allows the air to efcape into this coat; which then fwelis out> demonitrating its ftrutlure to be completely cellular *. Its ufe evidently is to fuffer the arteries, veins, and lymphatics to be diftributed to luch a degree of minute- nefs as to prepare them for reflection into the laft and innerinoft coat, and for entering into the ftrudture of the villi: for they come to the extremity of the meflfen- tery as confiderable branches, but forming in this coat a uniform texture of veflels, their extreme branches are finally diftributed to the inner coat. This is the coat in which, in fome parts of the inteftines, little glands or criptae are lodged* • An experiment, to which. Albiuus attaches much impor- tance. Bee alio, in the Acad, de Bologna, a paper by ivlr. D. G. Galeati on the flelhy coat of the ftomach and inteftines. Vol. IV. G VILLOUS82 OT THE SMALL INTESTINES. VILLOUS COAT. The moft curious part of the ftructure of the intef- tines is the villous or inner coat; for by its organiza- tion is the chyle feparated from the general mafs of matter in the bowels, and carried into the fyftem of velfels. To this all we have been defcribing is merely fubfervient. The villous coat has a foft fleecy furface ; and being of greater extent than the other and more outward coats, it is thrown into circular plaits which hang into the inteftine, taking a valvular form. They have the name of valvule conniventes. Some of them go quite round the infide of the inteftine; others only in part. They are of larger or fmaller extent in different parts of the canal: for example; they begin a very little way from the lower orifice of the ftomach irre- gularly, and tending to the longitudinal dire&ion; further down they become broader, more numerous, and nearly parallel; they are of greater length, and more frequent in the lower part of the duodenum and. upper part of the jejunum. Thefe valvular projeftions have their edges quite loofe and floating in the canal 5 and from this it is evident that they can have no val- vular adlion. Their ufe is to increafe the furface ex- pofed to the aliment ; to enlarge the abforbing furface and at the fame time to give to it fuch an irregularity' that the chyle may lodge in it and be detained *. Into * “ Superficies interns hujus tunicas ad menfuram geometric cam, aliquoties integumentorum communium fuperficiem ampli- tudine fuperat.” Soemmering} vol. vi. p. 295. the- 3OF THE SMALL INTESTINES. 83 the ftru&ure of thefe plicae of the villous coat, the vaf- cular or cellular coat enters, and generally in the du- plicature a fmall artereal and venous trunk will be obferved to run. That thefe plies are formed chiefly by the laxity of the connection and the greater rela- tive extent of the inner coat, is apparent upon inverting ■ the gut, and infinuating a blow-pipe under it, for then you may diflend the cellular fubftance of the vafcular coat fo as entirely to do away the valvulse conniventes. The pile or lanuginous furface from which this coat has its name, is to be feen only by a very narrow in- fpection, or with the magnifying glafs. It is owing to innumerable fmall filaments which projeCl from the furface, like hairs at firft view, but of a flat or rounded figure as the date of fulnefs and excitement or deple- tion fliows them. They confifl: (as appears by the microfcope) of an artery and vein, and laCfeal or ab- forbing vefiels, and to thefe we may furely add the ex- tremity of the nerve. They have a cellular' ftruClure 5 they are exquifitely fenfible; and, when ftimulatcd by the prefence of fluids in the inteflines, are ereCted, and abforb the chyle. They are the extremities of the lac- teal abforbing fyflem, and their ftruclure would feetri to be fubfervient to the abforption by the mouth of the laCteal veflel *. But the furface of this coat is not only an abforbing one, it alfo pours out a fecretion : and indeed it is as a * See further of their ftrudlure under the title of the Lacteal, and Lymphatic System, in this volume, where the fubjed of abforption and the ftrudure of the villi is treated. G 2 fecreting§4 OF THE SMALL INTESTINES. fecreting furface, upon which medicines can act, that k is to us one of the moft powerful means of acting upon the fyftem in difeafe. The fluid which is fupplied by the furface of the inteflines is called the liquor interi- cus j a watery and fetnipellucid fluid, refembling the gaftiic fluid. This fluid, phyfiologifts have affedted to diftinguifli from the mucous fecretion of the glands of the inner furface of the inteflines ; but it is impoflible to procure them feparate *. glands. Anatomifls have obferved fmall mucous glands feated in the cellular membrane of the inteflines the dudts of which they defcribe as opening on the villous furface of the inteflines. They are feen as little opaque lpots, when the intefline is cut in its length and held betwixt the eye and the light. They have been chiefly obferved in the duodenum ; few of them in the gene- ral tradt of the fmall inteflines. Little colledtions or agmina are obferved, which increafe in frequency to- * It has been fuppofed that the fluids excreted from the fur- face of the inteflines were furnilhed by very minute 'foramina (which are viflble by particular preparation) in the interflices of the villi. See the letter of Malpighi to the Royal Society of London on the Pores of the Stomach ; and the paper by M. Ga- leati in the Bologna traniuclions on the InnerCoat, which he calls the Cribriform Coat. There pores, according to Galeati, arc vi* lible through the whole tradt of the canal, and particularly in the great inteflines. f Peyruf. Biblio. Manger. Brunnerus de gbtnduMs duodeni. Wipfer, Morgagni, .flc. Thefe he fuppofed additional pancreatic glands. A wardOF THE SMALL INTESTINES. 85 G3 The ward the extremity of the ileon. It is natural to fup- pofe that aS the contents of the inteftines become in their defcent more acrid and ftiinulating, there will be a more copious fecretion of mucus in the lower intef* tines for the defence of the villous coat* SECTION IV. OF THE GREAT INTESTINES. The great inteftines form that part of the inteflinal canal which is betwixt the extremity of the ileon and the anus. They differ elfentially from the finall intef- tines in their lize, form, and general character; and in the texture, or at leafc in the thicknefs of their coats. The great inteftine, beginning on the right fide of the belly, rifes before the kidney ; pafifes acrofs the upper part of the belly, under the liver, and before or under the ftomach *. Then making a hidden angle from under the ftomach and fpleen j-, it defcends into the left iieac region. Here, making a remarkable turn and convolution, it defcends into the pelvis by a curve running in the hollow of the lacrum. The great inteftines are accounted to be about feven feet in length, and to bear a relation to the finall intef- tines as five to twenty-five. * This turn of the colon from the right nc.rofs the belly is flexura prima, fuperior dextra hipatica Soemmering. f Flexura fecuada, fuperior finiftra Jienaiis.OF THE GREAT INTESTINES. 36 The natural divifion of this portion of the inteftine is into the coecum, colon, and redtum *. VALVULA COLI. The extremity of the inteftinum ileon enters as it were into the fide of the great inteftine at an angle f t And here there is a valvular apparatus formed by the inner membrane of the gut, which, more than any other circumftance, marks the diftindlion betwixt the fmall and great inteftines; for as the effedt of this valve is to prevent the regurgitation of the faeces into the fmall inteftines, it marks fufficiently the nature of the change produced on the injefta in their paflage through the fmall inteftine, and how unfit in their acrid and putre- fcent ftate they are to be longer allowed lodgment there. Upon opening the caput coli, or lower part of the colon, on the right fide, and examining the opening of the ileon into it, we fee a flit formed betwixt two foft tumid plicas of the inner membrane of the gut: the one of thefe is fuperior ; the other inferior. They are foft, and moveable, and feem fcarcely calculated for a valvular adtion. But there is little doubt that when the great gut is difterfded or in adtion, they are calculated to refill the retrograde paflage of the faeces * Some authors divide the great inteftine into fix parts, enu- merating the caecum; pars vermiformis ; the right; the left; and the tranfverfe colon ; and the laft part or reflum. f Of the entering of the fmall inteftine into the greater, fee Morgagni Adverfar. iii. Animad. xi. into37 OF THE GREAT INTESTINES. into the ileon. In the oblong opening of the ileon, and in the broadnefs of the valvular membranes, there is confiderable variety. The fuperior valve is tranf- verfe, fmaller and narrower than the lower one; the lower one is longer, and takes a more extenfive curve: and fometimes the lower one is fo remarkably larger than the upper valve, that it gives a great degree of obliquity to the infertion of the ileon into the colon, fo as to approach to that ftruffure which we fee in the entrance of duffs, as the biliary duff into the inteftine, or the ureter into the bladder. At the extremities of thefe valves they coalefce and run into the common tranfverfe folds of the colon: and this is what Mor- gagni has called the frsena. At this place of union of the ilion and colon the longitudinal mufcular fibres of the ilion are mingled and confounded with the circular fibres of the colon *. The circular mufcular fibres certainly enter fo far into the compofition of the valve, that they embrace the margin, and, by contracting during life, muft make the experiments on the affion of this valve in the dead body lefs decifive than they would be were we certain that this valve affs on principles ftriffly mechanical. The difcovery of the valve of the colon, and which, from its affion in guarding the ileon, might rather be called the valve of the ileon, has been claimed or attributed to many anatomifts, chiefly to Varolius, Bauhin, and Tulpius ; and it fometimes receives the name of the two later anatomifts. * Winflow. g4 CCSCUM.88 OF THE GREAT INTESTINES. CCECIJM. We have feen that the ileon is inferted into the fide of the colon: now that portion of the gut which is below this union of the ileon is a round or flightly conical fac, from two to three inches in length. It is attached by cellular membrane to the iliacus internus mufcle. It is not a regular fac, but is divided into large cells like thofe in the reft of the colon, and has confi-. derable varieties in different fubje&s. PROCESSUS, SEU APPENDIX VERMIFORMIS. There is appended to the ccecum a fmall gut, alfo blind; but bearing no relation in fize or in figure to any part of the inteftinal canal. This gut, from its fmallnefs and twifted appearance, like the writhing of an earthworm, has received the name of vermiformis. It is fomewhat wider at the connexion with the great inteftine, and ftands off obliquely, fo that fornetimes its inner membrane takes the form of a valve *. It fcarcely ever is found containing feces, but only a mucus excreted from its glands. In the fcetus the appendix vermiformis is comparatively much larger, its bafe wider; upon the whole, more conical, and containing meconeum ; and in the young child it often contains feces. * Mprgagni. M. Laur. Bonazzoii in the Acad, of Bologna. GREATOF THE GREAT INTESTINES. S9 GREAT DIVISIONS OF THE COLON. The great divifions of the colon ('which I conceive it necefiary to enumerate, chiefly with a view to the accurate defcription of the feat of difeafe) are thefe: Firft, the right division of the colon rifes from the infertion of the ileon, and from that part of the great intefline which is tied down by the peritoneum and cellular membrane, and afcends on the right fide of the fmall inteftines, until it gets under the margin of the liver, and in contadl with the gall-bladder. Of courfe, this part will be found to take fome confi- derable varieties in its form, depending upon its {fate of diftention. THE TRANSVERSE COLON*. The tranfverfe colon is that part of the great intef- tine which often takes a courfe diredtly acrofs the belly, but which generally forms an arch before or immedi- ately under the ftomach. When this parr of the colon however is much diftended, being at the fame time held down by the rnefocoion,. its angular turns reach under rhe umbilicus, nay even to the pelvis. For the varieties in the fituation of this intefline and the vifcera in general, lee Morgagni Adverfar. Anat. ii. Animadver. ii. The left or descending colon is fliort: for between the point, where the colon begins to bend down on the left fide, and thofe violent turns which * Colgn transversvm. Zona Col!. it<f)C OF THE GREAT INTESTINES. it takes before terminating in the re&um, is but a fliort fpace. It is here attached to the diaphragm and pfoas mufcle. The segmoid flexure of the colon * is formed by a narrowing and contraction, and clofer adhefion of the gut to the loins below the left kidney, and to the cup of the ileum by the peritoneum, which feems to have the effeCt of throwing it into fome fudden convo- lutions. The colon then terminates in the reCtum. PECULIARITIES IN THE COLON DISTINGUISHING IT FROM THE SMALL INTESTINES. The coats of the great inteftines are the fame in number and in ftru&ure with thofe of the fmall intef- tines; but they are thinner and more difficult to be feparated by difle&ion. The villi of the inner coat are fmaller ; the mucous glands or folicules are fometimes very diftintt; and, laftly,the mufcular fibres have fome peculiarities in their arrangement, The molt charac- teriftic diftin&ion in the general appearance of the great and fmall inteftines, is the notched and cellular appearance of the former. The cells of the colon, being formed betwixt the ligamentous-like ftripes which run in the length of the gut, have a regular three- fold order. Thefe cells give lodgment to the feces; retain the matter; and prevent its rapid defcent or motion to the reClum. Here the fluids are ftill more exhaufted, and the feces take often the form of thefe cells. When the great inteftines are torpid, and inert * From its refembling the Roman S. inOF THE GREAT INTESTINES. X)\ ip. their motions, the fasces remain too long in the cells of the colon, and become hard balls or fcibulas. But when in this date of coftivenefs the inteftines are ex- cited by medicine, not only is the periftaltic motion of the inteftines increafed, but the veiTels pour out their fecretions, loofening and diflolving the fcibulte *, MUSCULAR COAT. The ligamentous-like bands of the colon form three fafciculi running in the length of the gut: one ofthefe, obfcured by the adhefion of the omentum, is not feen without diffeftion; and the other is concealed by the mefocolon f. Thefe bands are formed by the longi- tudinal fibres of the gut, being concentrated into fafci- culi, and not uniformly fpread over the general furface, as in the fmall inteftines : and being at the fame time more firmly connected with the peritoneal coat, they give the appearance outwardly of ligament more than of mufcular fibres The inner or circular mufcular fibres of the great inteftines are like thofe of the fmall inteftines, uniformly fpread over their furface, and are ftronger than thofe of the latter. Faeces. That the food digefted, in part abforbed, and its fluids exhaufted, becomes faeces in its progrefs through the inteftines, will be univerfally allowed: * See note of the pores of the inteftines. f Stratum liberum, ftratum omentale &tertium Mefocolicum. Soemmer, § ccxxx. J See Morgagni. See alfo Galeati on the flefhy coat of the ftomach and inteftiness in the Memoirs of the Acad, of Bologna. butOF THE GREAT INTESTINES. 92 but how much of the excrementitious matter in the colon is a human fecretion is not equally attended- to. Men who have died of want, and men exhaufted by long fever or other diftrefs, and who did not or were incapable of taking nourishment, have had difcharges pf feces ; and feces are found in their inteftines upon difiection.- The foetus has the inteftines filled with miconium *. The effedt of a purge is not only to ftimulate the inteftines to throw off their contents, but the inner fecreting furfaces pour out their fluids. The furface of the inteftines is not only calculated to abforb nourifhment, and capable of throwing off the fluids from the fyftem, like the kidneys in fecreting the urine, but it feetns deftined in a particular manner to carry off the earthy parts of the body, which in the circle of adtions is alternately undergoing renovation and decay. Thus the feces confift of the food and chyme, which has not been converted into chyle and abforbed, but which has been decompofed, and has entered into 'new combinations; it is united to part of the bile, which has alfo been decompofed ; to the fe- cretion of the pancreas; to the fecretion of the immenfe extent of furface of the inteftines; and many fubftances are found in the excrements which did not exift in the food. From the fame fources (viz, the fecretions poured into the inteftihal canal, or dire&ly from its furface) are formed concretions, often of an enormous fize; often diilinct from the nature of the more com- mon biliary fecretions f; and lbmetimes thefe earthy * See Haller Phif. Elem. tom. vii. feet. 6. $ 3. ft Plaller loc. cit. depofitsOF THE GREAT INTESTINES. 93 depofits entering into the compofition of the feces, give to them a lfoney hardnefs. RECTUM. The rectum forms the laft divifion of the great inteftines; and I know no better proof of the imprac- ticability of altering the names in anatomy than this, that anatomifts have, in almofi every age, infilled on the impropriety of calling this gut, which anfwers in its lhape to the curve of the facrum, a ffcraight gut; and yet always, and to the prefent day, it is redlum. From the lail turns of the colon, called fegmoid, the gut is continued over the promontory of the halt verte- bra and facrum (a little to the left fide), and falls into the pelvis. It runs down, in a curved direction, be- twixt the facrum and bladder of urine. In the upper part it is covered by the peritoneum, and has its fatty appendages like the colon, but lefs regular ; and fome- times the fat merely depofited under the peritoneal coat. It is tied down by the peritoneum, in form of mefo-redlum ; but, deeper in the pelvis, it lofes the pe- ritoneum (which, as we have laid, is reflefted up upon the back of the bladder, and forms here lateral folds), and the redlum is connected with the lower part of the bladder and vellicufe feminalis by cellular mem- brane. In women, the mufcular fibres of the redtuin and vagina are intimately conne&ed *. * Window. The94 OF THE GREAT INTESTINES. The mufcular coat of the reftum is particularly ftrong. The flefhy bands of the colon, fpreading out* are continued down upon the reftum in an uniform Iheath of external longitudinal fibres. The circular fibres of this part of the gut are alfo particularly ftrong; and towards the extremity, appearing in ftill ftronger fafciculi, they obtain the name of fphin&er, of which three are enumerated : and this, to dif- tinguilh it from the others, is called the inteftinal or orbicular fphincfer. The internal coat of the reftum does not deferve the name of villous, nor of papillaris. Its furface is fmooth, and there are often diftindly feen little fora- mina like the mouths of du£ts or folicules, in part the fource of the mucous difcharge, which is fometimes poured out from this gut. Towards the anus the fold becomes longitudinal, and terminates in the notched- like irregularities of the margin.95 OF THE LIVER. C HAP. III. OF THE SOLID OR GLANDULAR VISCERA OF THE ABDOMEN. SECTION I. OF THE LIVER. OF ITS SEAT, AND CONNECTIONS BY LIGAMENTS, AND OF THE DIVISIONS APPARENT ON ITS SUR- FACE. Our attention is now naturally drawn to the liver, as it holds, in fo eminent a degree, the fovereignty over the motions of the inteftinal canal, and as it is fo ftri&ly connected with it by its fyftem of vefiels, and by its functions. The liver is the largeft vifcus in the body, and as in its fize and proportion to the whole body it is great, fo are its connections in other refpedts with the whole fyftem very intimate. This is particu- larly evident in the difeafes of the liver, and was the caufe of the ancients afcribing to it fo eminent a place in the ceconomy. Function of the liver.—In all ages authors have paid particular attention to the liver, and have exercifed their ingenuity in giving various explanations ofOF THE LIVER. 96 of its fun&ion. The ancients made it the fupreme diredtor of the animal fyftem. They fuppofed that they could trace the nutritious fluids of the inteftines through the meferaic veins into the porta and into the liver, and that it was there concodted into blood. From the liver to the right fide of the heart they found the cava hepatica, carrying this blood formed in the , liver to the centre of the fyftem : and through the veins they fuppofed the blood to be carried to the re- mote part of the body. The liver is the largeft glandular body of the whole fyftem. Its ufe is to fecrete the bile, which is carried into the inteftines, and performs there an eflential adtion on the food while pafling in the tract of the in- teflines. Seat of the liver.—The liver is feated in the upper part of the abdomen, under the margin of the ribs, and towards the right fide, or in the right hypo- chondrium. In the fcetus it occupies more of the left fide than it does in the adult. Indeed it is nearly equally balanced in the foetus, but the older the animal (or at lead for the five firft years) the greater will be the proportion of it found lodged in the right fide. Without going into the more minute fubdivifions of this vifcus, we may obferve, that it is more uniform, and fmooth, and convex on the upper furface; on the lower, more irregularly concave. Its upper furface is applied in dofe contact to the concavity of the diaphragm, and in the fcetus its margin is in contact with the abdominal jnufcles, becaufe it falls lower than the margin of the ribs. Its lower and concave furface receives the con- vexity of the ftomach, duodenum, and colon. In a healthyOF THE LIVER. 97 healthy adult fubjedt the liver does not extend from under the margin of the ribs, unlefs near the pit of the flomach, but in the foetus and child it is much other- wife. In a foetus of the third and fourth month the liver almofl fills the belly; it reaches to the navel, covers the flomach, and is in contact with the fpleen. After the feventh month other parts grow with a greater ra- pidity in proportion. Indeed fome have affirmed,that the liver, or at leafl the left lobe, actually decreafes to- wards the time of birth *. But from this time to the advance to manhood the chefl becomes deeper; the fternum is prolonged 5 and the diaphragm becomes more concave; fo that the liver retires under the mar- gin of the ribs, and its margin on the left fide in the adult reaches no farther than to the oefophagus; When however the liver becomes fchirrous and en- larged, its hard margin comes down fo as to be felt through the abdominal paries under the border of the chefl. This enlargement of the liver, and confequent defcent of its margin* is to be felt more eafily by grafping the integuments of the belly, as if you expedit- ed to lift up the acute edge of the liver, than by preffing with the point c?f the finger. By this means we (hall be fenfible of the elafiicity and foftnefs below the liver, and of the refiltance and firmnefs of the mar- gin of it. The phyfician, however, fhould not forget* that the depreffion of the diaphragm, and confequent protrufion of the liver by difeafe in the thorax, gives the feeling of an enlargement and hardening of the liver. The left great divifion of the liver is perhaps as * M. Portal. Acad, de Sciences, 1773. VoL. IV. H often98 or THE LIVER. often difeafed and enlarged as the right, in which cafe it is more difficult to afcertain it by examination, and it mull be learnt from other circumftances befides the actual touch. Neither ffiould a phyfician be ignorant, that by fup- puration in the lungs, and coofequent rifing of the diaphragm, the liver is elevated confiderably, fo as to retire farther under the prote&ion of the falfe ribs *. M. Portal, by running ftilettos into the belly of the fubjeft as it lay upon the table, or was raifed into the perpendicular pofture, found that in the latter pofture the liver fhifted two inches. But it is almoft fuperfiu- ous to remark concerning thefe experiments, that they are by no means conclufive. In the dead body, the abdominal mufcles are relaxed; they yield to the weight of the vifcera ; and the diaphragm is pulled down by the weight of the abdominal vifeera. The margin of the liver neceflarily falls lower, but in the living body there is a clofe and perfect bracing of every part by the abdominal mufcles; they do not yield, and very little if any alteration can take place in the fitua- tion of the vifcera. It mull be obferved, however, that a confiderable morion of the liver is the effect of refpiration, and of the adtion of the diaphragm. This motion is chiefly on the back part of the right lobe of the liver. The left lobe being more on the centre of the belly, and confequently oppoiite to the centre and lefs moveable part of the diaphragm, it is lefs affedted by the refpira- rion than the larger right lobe. * Thefe obfervations in detnil' belong to another place. LIGA-99 OF THE LIVER, LIGAMENTS OF THE LIVER. The peritoneum is refle&ed in fuch a manner from the neighbouring parts upon the liver as to form mem- branes receiving the name of ligaments. It has been explained, however, that thefe are not the foie fupport of this vifcus; and that the compreffion of the fur- rounding abdominal mufcles is the principal fupport of the liver, as it is of the other vifcera. The broad ligament* of the liver is formed by two lamina of the peritoneum, connedled by their cellular membrane, defending from the middle of the dia- phragm and point of the fternum to the convex upper -* furface or dorfumf of the liver. This ligament is broadeft where it pafles down from the point of the fternum to the fofTa umbilicalis; but as it retreats back- ward it becomes narrower, and is united to the coro- nary ligament near the pafiage of the vena cava. This circumftance, with the curve which it naturally takes on the furface of the liver, gives it the lhape of the falx, as it is formed by the dura mater. ligamentum teres. The round ligament of the liver is the firmer ligamentous-like cord, which may be traced from the umbilicus along the peritoneum into the duplication of the broad ligament, and into the folia umbilicalis. It is formed by the degenerated coats of the great vein which brings the florid blood from {he placenta into the veins of the liver, and from * Ligamentum latum fufpenforium, falciforme. f See Plate I. of this volume. Ha tkenceor THE LIVER. ioo thence conveys it into the right fide of the heart of the foetus *. The coronary ligament of the liver is formed in confeqiience of the attachment of the liver to the dia- phragm. The attachment is of courfe furrounded by the inflection of the peritoneum from the diaphragm to the liver. It is called the coronary ligament, though it has been obferved, that this attachment of the liver is not circular, but of an oval, and very oblong fliape. It appears, that it is this clofe adhefion of the liver to the diaphragm, which is the occafion of the fympathy of the diaphragm in difeafe of the liver, and the caufe of the pain felt in the fhoulder and neck from inflam- mation, and fuppuration in the liver, in confequence of the courfe and connections of the phrenic nerve. The lateral ligaments are formed by the perito- neum continued laterally. The right lateral ligament, like a mefentry, attaches the right and great lobe of the livef to the diaphragm, and the left lateral ligament connefts the left lobe with the diaphragm, and with the cefophagus and fpleen. FORM AND DIVISIONS OF THE LlVER. The liver is convex arid fmooth on the upper fur* face concave and more irregular on the lower part; thick and mafly behind and towards the right fide; but anteriorly and toward the left fide it is thin, and has an acute edge, fo that it lies fmooth over the iiaended'ftomach. * See vol. ii. p. 17 >. and Plate, p. 173. 4 Greatt®I OF THE LIVER. Great right and left lobes of the liver.— The firft great divifion of the liver is marked on the convex furface by the broad ligament; which running ba k from the foffa umbilicalis divides it into the two great lobes, the right and left. When the concave furface of the liver is turned up, we fee the fame divi- fion into the right and left lobes by a fnTure which runs backwards. It is on this lower furface of the liver that we have to mark the greater variety of divifions in this vifcus. Farther, it is on the right lobe that thofe eminences are to be obferved, which, with the indentations and fulci, give fome intricacy to this fubjeff. Lobulus sfigelii *.—The lobulus fpigellii is be- twixt the two greater lobes, but rather belonging to the right great lobe. From its fituation deep behind, and from its having a particular papilla-like projeflion, it is called lobulus pofterior, or papillatus. To the left fide it has the fuTure for the lodgment of the duflus venofus; on the right, the fiffure for the vena cava ; and above, it has the great tranfverfe fiflure of the liver for the lodgment of the cylinder of the porta : obliquely to the right, and upwards, it has a connec- tion with the lower concave furface of the great lobe by the proceflus caudatus, which Window calls one of the roots of the lobulus fpigellii. It is received into the bofom of the leffer curve of the ftomach. Lobulus caudatus f.—This really deferves the name of proceffus caudatus, for it is like a procefs of • Lobulus pojlerior—-pojl'icus—papcllfltus. *f Procdlus caudatus. H] the102 Of THE LIVER. - ,-r the liver, ftretching downward from the middle of the great right lobe to the lobulus fpigellii. It is behind the gall-bladder, and betwixt the fofla venae portarum and the fiffure for the lodgment of the vena cava. Lobulus anonymus * is the anterior point of the great right lobe of the liver : or others define it to be that fpace of the great lobe betwixt the fofla for the umbilical vein and the gall-bladder, and extending forward from the fofla for the lodgment of the porta, to the anterior margin of the liver. Sulci, and depressions of the liver.—On the lower furface of the right lobe there may be obferved two flight excavations, formed as it were by the preffure of the colon and of the kidney. On the lower furface of the left lobe there may alfo be obferved deprefllons anfwering to the convexities of the ftomach and colon. But thefe are only the {lighter irregularities which might pafs unnoticed. There are, befldes thefe, deep divifions which pafs betwixt the lobes and lobuli, and indeed form thefe eminences. Umbilical fissure f.—From the anterior point of the two lobes there paffes backwards to the left fide of the lobulus fpigelii a deep fiffure, which in the foetus gives lodgment to the umbilical vein, and which in the adult receives the round ligament, where it is about to terminate in the left divifion of the vena port.e:. The back part of this fiffure gives lodgment to the duftus venofus in the foetus. This fiffure divides the liver into its tvyo right and left divifions, and upon the right fide joins the tranfverfe fiffure. * Lobulus acccfforius—anterior—quadratus. -j- Horizontal £T. re, folia, longitudinalis, longa anterior. rp 1 HEOF THE LIVER. The- transverse fissure is that which partes above the lobulus fpigelii, and lobulus quadratus; the proceffus caudatus, and the lobulus lobi fmiftri. It is in this fiflure that the great tranfverfe divifion of the vena ports lies. The posterior, fissure* gives lodgment to the duttus venofus. It is a divifion in the pofterior mar- gin of the liver betwixt the left lobe, and the lobulus fpigelii, and great lobe on the right. Sometimes, in- ftead of the fiflure or fulcus, there is a canal, as it were, in the fubftance of the liver. The fourth great fiflure, is that for the lodgment of the vena cava. It fometimes is called, in contra- diftindtion to the laft, the right fiflure, or the fissura ven/e cavas. It is a large deep divifion betwixt the lobulus fpigelii and the back part of the right lobe, for receiving the vena cava as it partes up upon the fpine. The gall-bladder being funk in the fubftance of the liver, the pit or excavation which receives it has been confidered improperly as a fiflure or foffa f. There likeways occur irregular fiffures in the fubftance of the liver, which are like the curs of the knife, and hold no regular place. OF THE VESSELS OF THE LIVER, AND OF THE CIR- CULATION OF THE BLOOD THROUGH IT. There belong to the liver five diftintt fyftems of veffels : thefe are, the vena portae ; the arteria hepati- * Or fulcus dudtus venofi, the left fiflure. t It is generally called, fovea fellis, or vallieula vejlcuht felkg. H 4 ca j »OF THE LIVER. 104 ca; the vena cava hepaticae; the lymphatics ; and the biliary duXs *. Thefe, with the nerves, form a very intricate fyflem of veffels, but a lefi'on of the mod par- ticular importance to the phyfician. Before fpeaking of the connexions which thefe veffels conflitute with particular parts, or with the entire fyflem, we fhall take a flriXly anatomical view of their origin and courfe. THE VENA PORTEE. This vein is divided into two parts; that which be- longs to the inteflines, and which, ramifying on the mefentry, receives the blood of the mefenteric arteries; and that part which branches in the liver, and diflri- butes there the blood which it has received from the arteries of the membranous vifcera. Even from this, divifion we fee that the vena ports has a very particu- lar diflribution; that while it is colleXing its branches from the fpleen, ftomach, and inteflines, like the veins in the other parts of the body, into a trunk, this trunk, inftead of leading direXly to the heart, or uniting with other veins in their courfe to the heart, enters the liver, and, like an artery, fpreads into minute ramifica- tions ; hence it is called the vena artCriofa. It re- fembles an artery in this alfo, that it has no valves like other veins. To be more particular; the vena ports takes its origin from the extreme branches of the coeliac, upper * And wc might add, the arteries of the outer membrane of the liver which arife from the internal mammary, phrenic, epi- gastric. and even the fpcrmatic arteries. and105 OF THE LIVER, and lower mefenteric arteries. The roots of the portae anfweving to thefe arteries are the fplenic vein; the gaftro-epiploic vein which runs upon the great arch of the ftomach ; the mefenteric vein returning from the fmall inteftines; and the right and middle colic veins, and internal hemorrhoidal vein and left colic return- ing upon the mefocolon. Thefe anfwering to the three great branches of the abdominal aorta, pafs obliquely upward in three great divifions, and unite with fome lelfer veins, as the coronary and fmaller veins of the flomach, and pancreatico-duodenalis. The trunk of the vena ports is now involved in the irregularly reti- culated web of the hepatic velfels, arteries, veins, glands, lymphatics, nerves, and biliary dufts, with their cellu- lar membrane. It paffes upward fomewhat obliquely to the right; and enters the porta * or the finus be- twixt the procelfus caudatus and lobulus fpigelii. When the vena portae has entered the liver, it di- vides into two great branches, which running directly tranfverfe, and being of large capacity, are fometimes called the cylinder of the vena ports. Of thefe two great branches of the vena portae within the liver, the right is greater in diameter, but fhorter f: it ramifies in the great right lobe of the liver. The left is longer confiderably, and filling the tranfverfe filfure it is rehedted up into the umbilical or horizontal filfure, and is given to the left lobe, to the upper and more anterior * Sometimes it has been found divided before entering the liver. It has been alfo found to divide into three branches, in which cafes, fays Haller, two go to the left fide. f Into this branch fometimes the vein of the gall bladder enters. partIo6 OF THE LIVER. part of the right lobe, viz. lobulus anonymus, and to the lobulus fpigelii. The minute ramifications of the vena portse every where pervade the fubftance of the liver, and inofcu- late with the veins of the furface belonging to the peri- toneal coat. The blood of the vena ports, after fe- creting the bile, is received into the extremities of the venae cavae hepaticae. ARTERIA HEPATICA. For the courfe of this artery from the root of the coeliac artery, to its entrance into the liver, fee vol. ii. p. 416. and 419. The arteria hepatica and the venae ports are fupported by the fame fheath, the lefier veffel encircling the greater, like a tendril. While they have diftinft fundlions, both terminate in the fame returning veins : that is to fay, whether we admit that one or both open into the biliary duels, yet they have the fame relation to the venae cavae hepaticae which the arteries of the other parts of the body have to their reluming veins. VENAS CAVJE HEPATICAS. We have feen, that the right auricle of the heart is clofe to the diaphragm above, and that the liver ad- heres to the lower furface of the diaphragm. We have alfo found that there was a groove in the back part of the liver for the tranfmiffion of the venae cavae abdominalis. Now as the venae cavae afeending from the lower parts of the body to the heart is perforating 9 theOF THE LIVER. I07 the diaphragm, it is joined by two large veins from the liver, which, from their fize and form, being the re- turning veins of the liver, are termed in general the venae cavae hepaticse. Thefe veins fometimes pierce the diaphragm alongft with the cavae abdominaiis, fo that there is to be obferved one large perforation in the diaphragm, but generally they pafs the diaphragm clofe to the great vein, but fo that there are three openings in the diaphragm. When thefe hepatic veins are traced into the fubftance of the liver, they are feen to be gathered together from all parts of the liver in two, or fometimes three great branches. The communication betwixt the vena ports and the vens cavs hepaticse are fo free, that feveral anato- mifts have imagined a peculiar and more immediate communication of their branches than holds in other parts of the body betwixt the arteries and veins ; a circuinftance which appeared to them the more ne- ceflary, confidering the lefier impetus with which the blood flows in the vena ports than in .the arterial fyftem. SILIARY6F THE LIVER* ic3 BILIARY DUCTS*. The laft fubdivifion of the fubftance of the liver, or acini, as vve (hall prefently find, is fupplied with a branch of the venas portas, arteria hepatica, and venae hepaticas. With thefe there is alfo feen a minute ramification of the excretory duft of the liver. Thefe laft minute branches are the roots of the biliary duft; which running into each other form trunks refembling the branches of veins, and which attaching themfelves to the vena portae form the greater trunks, anfwering • Explanation of the plate of the gall-bladder. A The gall bladder. B The cyflic du<51:. C The hepatic diufh D The common duel. E The hepatic artery. F The critic artery coming oft from it. to109 OF THE LIVER. to the right and left fide of the liver. Thefe two divifions of the hepatic duct approaching each other, unite (C), while they are attached to the right branch of the vena ports;. Their union conftitutes the he- patic du£t, or dudtus choledochus. When the du£t of the liver has advanced a little Way from the tranfverfe fiflure, it is joined by the cVstic duct (B), or perhaps we Ihould rather fay, confider- ing the ufe of the cyftic du£t, that it is reflected from it at an acute angle to the right fide. The ductus cysticus is much fmaller than the hepatic du£t; and is fomewhat curved in the dire£tion towards its expan- fion into the gall-bladder ; for there it takes a very fudden turn downward, as is feen in the marginal plate. The hepatic du£t, after being joined by the cyftic du£t, continues its courfe under the name of du&us communis choledochus, or common du£t *. Now become fome- what larger, it takes its courfe under the head of the pancreas to the back part of the duodenum, about five inches from the pylorus. Before it enters the gut, or more generally while in- cluded in the coats, it is joined by the pancreatic du£t. Having pierced the mul'cular coat, it runs for fome time in the cellular coat, in the length of the gut, and then opens upon the eminence of a confiderable valvu- lar plica of the inner coat. This hole is regularly limited, and by no means equal to the diameter of the dud, either where it is Contained within the coats of the gut, or in its courfe * Du&us choledochus, hepatico cyfticus, (D,) fromno or THE LIVER. from the liver to the gut. Sometimes the hepatic and pancreatic dud open by diflind perforations. The outer coat of thefe duds is fmooth and ftrong * * * §; within this a cellular and nervous coat is defcribed and mufcular fibres imagined ; but the inner coat is worthy of attention. It is reticulated in fuch a way, that a probe puflied up the dud is catched by their valve-like adion |. GALL-BLAD’DER. We have already noticed, that the gall-bladder rs attached to the lower furface of the right lobe of the liver, and partly buried in its finus: it has fometimes occurred that it was merely fufpended to the liver by a membrane like a mefentry. It is a bag of a pyriform Ihape; its greater end or fundus is contiguous to the colon; its lower end or neck to the duodenum. It has been found wanting altogether §. It is generally of a fize to contain an ounce, or an ounce and a half of bile. * Although this coat refills, in a confiderable degree, the diftention of the dud, when blown into or injeded, yet the whole are l'ometimes fo didended as to admit the thumb. But this is rather to be confide red as gr«wth and enlargement, than didention. f By Haller. J Thefe I have feen miftaken for adual obllrudions. § In which calc the-dilated duds in their courfe would feemto have been capable of retaining a quantity of bile ready to be evacuated into the intedine. A double gall bladder has fame- rimes been found. TheIll OF THE LIVER. The coats of the gall-bladder are the outer peritone- al coat *; a middle cellular coat, what from its analogy to that of the inteftines we fhould call vafcular coat j and an inner coat. In the intermediate coat mufcular fibres have been looked for with great eagernefs, but none have been demonftrated, although a convi&ion, remains that there are mufcular fibres in the compofi- tion of the coats of. the gall-bladder. This coat gives form, limit, and ftrength to the gall-bladder. The third or inner coat is formed into innumerable rugae, fo as to take a cellular or reticulated texture. Thefe loculi, as we may call them, thus formed by the duplicature of Tt, e internal membrane, are of confiderable variety of Ihape, fquare, round, or triangular. Thefe rugs, and the whole internal membrane of the gall-bladder, have a beautiful and minute net-work of velfels upon them j and in thefe cells there can be little doubt that there are fmall mucous folicules, or pores, or an exudation from extreme velfels, whofe difcharge (heaths the fur- face from the irritation of the acrid bile. The ex- treme degree of vafcularity and reticulated texture of this inner coat of the gall-bladder is not apparent be- fore the fixth or feventh month of the foetus, and then it takes a peculiar texture in preparation for the reception of the fecreted bile. * Like the peritoneal coat of the liver, it feems to pofiefs very diftinft veflels from the vafcular coat below. “ Si itaque ea, a “ reliquis membranis folvitur expletis antca materia quadam “ colorata vafis, ab arteria hepatka et vena portarum v.enienti- “ bus ; videmus cam ne minimum quidem accipere furculum quo *' ornantur nervea et vafcvlofa.” Annotations Acad. F. Aug. Walter, p. 57. TowardsOF THE LIVER. 112 Towards the opening of the bladder into the cjftic duel the rugae take a femilunar figure, and feem to have a valvular adion, in at leafl fo far that they feem in- tended to give a degree of difficulty to the paffage of the bile. The fame ftrudure of the internal coat prevails in the cyftic duel. However ftrange it may appear to one, confidering the relation of the liver as a gland to its duds, and to the gall-bladder as a receptacle of the bile* an opinion was entertained that the bile of the gall-bladder was fecreted by its own coats, and that it was of a different nature from the bile conveyed from the fubltance of the liver. Without further argument it is fufficient to fay, that when the cyftic dud is tied, or when it is preternaturally obftruded, there is no bile fecreted into the gall-bladder *. From the connections of the gall-bladder, and from the confideration of the whole anatomy, there can re- main no doubt that the gall-bladder is a mere recep- tacle, referving a fufficient {lore of this fluid for the due change to be performed upon the food : that as the ftomach is not at all times loaded with food, nor the chyme and fluid from the ftomach inceffantly paffing through the duodenum, neither is the bile at all times running from the gall-duds. On the con- trary, as the ftomach is emptied of its contents at • Were there ilo other proof of the gall-bladder being merely a receptacle, and not in any degree for fecreting the bile, the courfe of its veins (which run into the vena portx) would be fufficient indication. If they had returned the blood from having performed the fecretion of the bile, they worn J have drept into the cava, and not into the portx. datedGP THE tIVER. dated Intervals, there feems to be a provifion for a quantity of bile being evacuated from the receptacle and duds proportioned to the food, and while it is palling the duodenum. Whether we fhould conceive that this is a neceffary confequence of the retention of the bile in the gall-bladder, or a wife provifion of nature, I am uncertain ; but it appears, that the longer the bile is retained, or the longer the fall and the de- ficiency of food in the duodenum, the more acrid and mfpiffated is the bile, and the greater alfo in quantity. This infpifiation of the bile takes place in confequence of the activity of the lymphatics, which ramifying on the coats abforb the thinner part of the bile. Further ; I cannot look upon the rugae and cellular firudure of the inner coat of the gall-bladder in any other light than as the means of increafing the furface, and expofing the bile to a further abforption of its watery parts than otherwife would take place. The gall-bladder is fuppofed by fome to be emptied by the general prefiure of the abdomen; an opinion founded on a miftake, which a very little confideration might corred. Others think that the ftomach, or duodenum, or colon, being diftended by the food, comprefs and empty the gall-bladder; while others with more apparent corrednefs allege, that it is emptied in confequence of a confent of parts. With the latter I would confidently affirm, that as the aliment paifes the duodenum, the bile follows apace, either from the alternate contradion and relaxation of the duodenum ©ccafioning a relaxation of the orifice of the duds, or more probably from the duds being excited, as the falivary glands are excited by the prefence of fapid Vol. IV. I bodiesii4 OF THE LIVER. bodies in the mouth. By want and hunger, on the contrary, the gall-bladder is allowed to diltend : there is no call for its evacuation. Experiments would even teach us, that the gall- bladder has not the fame irritability excitable by ftimuli applied to the coats, as the ftomach, inteftines, or bladder of urinS ; which is a proof that, like the iris, and many other parts of the body, its action is roufed more powerfully by the flimulus of fympathy and con- fent of remote parts, than by the detention of its coats ; whereas the inteftines and bladder have it in their conftitution to be excited to contraction by fimple diftention. From experiments it would appear, in confirmation of what is here alleged, that while the food is in the ftomach little bile is difcharged; but that it flows when the matter is palling the duodenum, fo that a great quantity is then formed in the gut. On the contrary, in a ftate of want and hunger, the gall- bladder is greatly diftended, and yet little bile flows from it; although it is not only more accumulated, but more acrid and bitter *. The gall-bladder is not deftitute, however, of irrita- bility and the power of contraction ; for if would appear from many cafes that, like the urinary bladder, it contracts upon concretions, and becomes thick in its coats. ' The retention of the bile, furcharging the duCts, and diftending the gall-bladder, and the fudden dif- charge of accumulated bile, and the irregularities of * Anat. generalgjds. Xav Bichattom. iv. p. 6 5. its- ✓OF THE LIVF&. Its cOurfe when influenced by diforder of the vifcera, are the fource of the raoft fevere and diftrefling fymptoms *. In the dead body we fee the colon and duodenum, or whatever parts lie in contadf with the gall bladder, flained with bile; but this evidence of tranfudation which is found in the dead body, is not feen in the living; while the ffain from the bile is obferved to be deeper and more eXtenfive in bodies long dead. It is therefore another example of the peculiar properties inherent in the living fibres, that no tranfudation is allowed ; but that the fluids, which appear as if exuding from the living furfaces, are difcharges from organic por§s, or from the extremities of veffels. OF MINUTE Sf RU CTtJRE OF THE LIVER. The liver is firmer and dryer in feme degree that! ainy of the other vifcera ; the intertexture of membrane is weak, and in confequence the fubffance of the liver is friable and eafily torn. When cut or torn, it feems for the greater part vafcular ; or it difplays the mouths of innumerable dudls and veffels, and, after a minute injection, the blood-veffels feem to pervade every par- ticle, even when examined with the microfcope. This texture of veffels, in which we may fay the fubffance of the liver chiefly confiffs, is furrounded * We have one example of this In a late Treatife on the Dil- eafes of the Bowels of Children, by Dr. Cheyne: an efihy mod particularly uleful in its obj-edt; and the reafoning of which is founded on anatomical observation, fupported by facts, and deductions from practice. I z WithOF THE LIVER. i 16 with a delicate membrane, the continued peritoneum. It retains the character of peritoneum, in being a fimple membrane, whitifh, and a little pellucid. In this mem- brane minute arteries and veins ramify, which are un- connedted with the internal fyflem of veflels, and in the clofe cellular membrane beneath it the lymphatic veflels take their courfe. When a fedtion is made of the liver, the veflels may be thus diftinguifhed: the dudts by the thicknefs of their coats, and their yellow colour; the arteries by a lefs degree of thicknefs, and a more refilling elaflicity ; the branches of the vena portae and the cava hepaticae by the thinnefs of their coats, of which thofe of the latter are conflderably the weaker. With the invefliture of the peritoneal coat of the liver even the vafcular tiffue of the body of the liver has no communication by veflels *. It is therefore con- fidered as an organ of a peculiarly diflindt organization. By the proofs from anatomical injedtions we are in- formed, that there is a free intercourfe through the extreme branches of all the five fyltems of veflels in the liver. From minute injections, and the trying and making of fedtions in the liver, there feems no likelihood of gaining information of the ftrudture and connedtions of thefe veflels. Walther, who feems to have examined more methodically and minutely than any other anato- milt in any age, could make no diftindtion of parts. In whatever way he made his fedtions, whatever fyflem of veflels he filled, whether the whole veflels or each feparately, he could not afcertain the diredtion and * Soemmering. Walther, loc. cit. &c. courfe”7 OF THE LIVER. courfe of any particular veil'd, nor its inofculations, but all was obfcure, and as if conflituting one chaotic mafs. In wet preparations, however, he obferved, that the ex- tremities of the branches of the hepatic artery opened into the vena ports : that the branches of the vena ports had a double termination: that fome of them, by a fudden turn and ferpentine courfe, terminated in the branches of the venae cavae hepaticse *; while others were feen to terminate or open into the biliary duels. Further he obferved, that in all the branches of the vena ports there was a peculiar comprelled appearance which diftinguifhed them from all the other veffels of the vifeus. There have been obferved, by almofl every author, interfe&ions of the intimate membrane of the liver, which divides and fubdivides the fafciculi of veffels. Thefe are, however, obfcure divifions. The lafl per- ceptible divifions have been called acinif; and they are rather prefumed than dire&ly proved to have in their compofition an extreme ramification of the feveral veffels of which the liver confilts J. We have feen Malpighi conceiving that thefe bodies were fimple glands collebled on the ramifications of the veffels; that they were little vehicles; and that from * I fhoulcl imagine that in this he might have been deceived by the lelfer branches of the porta; (filled with injection) opening into the fide of the larger trunks; and that there is no fuch ter- mination of the hepatic arteries in the tides of the venaportarum, fo that their open mouths are difcernable. f See the definition in the introduction to the prefent volume. t Acinos nemo rejicit, ne Ruyfchius quidem, fed de interiori fabrica difpatatur. Haller. 13 themI 1 8 O? THE LIVER. them the pori biiarii took their origin. In this opinion he was luccefslully oppofed by Ruyfch, who affirmed that thefe were vafcular; and in this he has been fup- ported by Albinus. It would in truth appear, that the description of thefe partitions of the fubftance of the liver, and the ultimate fubdivifion of it unto thefe little grains, about which there has been fo much fpecula* lion, is not founded in an accurate obfervation, and that there are neither criptgg, hollow or cellular, nor little bodies made up of convoluted arteries, but the minute parcels of velTeis which are obfervable may be called acini, in the drift definition which has been given in the introduction. Finally, Ruyfch’s opinion may be given in thefe words: (Epift. ad Virum Clar. Ner. Boerhaave, p. 6q ) “ Sed nolo diutius tergiverfari, fateor ergo, quod, quando primo incipiebam me exercere in anatomicis, videbam tunc quidem, quod in jecore hurnano fe ollendebant acinuli parvi innumerabiii numero, qum turn temporis appellabantur glandulae; nam nemo cogitabat aliter fed manet fola jam hsec queltio, an aci- nuli hi hie herentes hint glandulae fimpliciffimse, foli- culi cavi cum emilfaiio an quid aliquid ? dico nemo demonflravit illos tales effe ut hie affumis. Imo vet o facile jam eric demonftrare, acinos hos cum criptis •antea pertraftis nihil commune habere : quia oculis noftris non apparent ut membranulm cavas Sc quia etiam non habent emiffarium. Sed componuntur tantum ex extremitatibus ultimis vafculorum fangui- ferorum unitis in formani fpherm rotunditatis, neque, quantum poffum videre etiam membranula aliqua fua fingulari circumambiuntur.”ii 9 OF THE LIVER. OF THE SECRETION OF THE BILE. Upon reviewing the whole fyftem of the liver the peculiarities in the vena portae ftrike us the mod. It occurs to us that the palling of this profufion of blood retrograde into the liver, with the flow motion peculiar to venous blood, and after having gone the circulation through the intellines, and confequently loft thofe pro- perties which conftituted it arterial blood, is a provifion for the fecretion of the bile. It is almoft univerfally concluded, that the fecretion of bile is made from the blood of the vena portae. But as we fee that this blood diftributed by the branches of the vena portae in the liver muft be fo far exhaufted as to become incapable of all the ufes ac- complilhed by the arterial blood in other glands, that although the vena portae be peculiarly adapted to fe- crete the bile, it is not capable of fupplying the nutrition and the energy to the fubftance and veflels of the liver, there is a neceflity for arterial blood being fent to this gland through a branch of the arterial fyftem. We have had occafion to remark, that no part retains its funftion in vigour, nor the living properties which are inherent in it, while the whole oeconotny is entire and correct, unlefs the blood be circulated through it. Therefore it would appear neceflary that the arteria hepatica, a branch of the aortic fyftem, ftiould alfo be bellowed upon this vifcus. Thefe arteries perform the fame office here in the liver that the bronchial arteries do in the lungs, or the coronary arteries in the heart, I 4 or220 OF THE LIVER. or the vafa vaforum in the great vefiels. The pulmonic artery carries venous blood into the lungs, which hav- ing returned from the circulation of the body cannot fend off fmaller branches to fuppiy the membranes and vefiels of the lungs, it is neceflary that for this purpofe branches of the aortic fyftem (hall enter the lungs. Again, in the heart the blood contained in its ventri- cles is incapable of fupplying its fubllance, or the blood coming through the calibre of the great vefiels cannot be the means of miniftering to their a&ive powers, but for this purpofe the vafa vaforum are diftributed through the coats of the vefiels. Thefe vefiels there- fore bear an analogy to the arteria hepatica in the liver. We mud not however fuppofe that this fcheme of the a&ion of the vafcular fyftem of the liver, however rational and fimple, will be univerfally allowed. Indeed there are circumftances which feem to (land in oppofi- tion to it. Of thefe, the molt interefting is the cafe of unufual diftribution of the vefiels of the liver com- municated by Mr. Abernethy of St. Bartholomew’s hofpital. The fubjeft was a female infant which was fuppofed to be about ten months old. Among other varieties it was obferved, that the branch of the cceliac artery diftributed to the liver was larger than common, and exceeded by more than one third the ufual fize of the fplenic artery. This was the only veffel which fupplied the liver with blood for the purpofe of either nutrition or fecretion. The vena portarum was formed in the ufual manner, but terminated in the inferior cava nearly on a line with the renal veins. The liver was 14 of121 OF THE LIVER. cf the ufual fize, but had not the ufual inclination to the right fide of the body.: it was fituated in the middle of the upper part of the abdomen, and nearly an equal portion of the gland extended into either hypochon- drium. The gall-bladder lay collapfed in its ufual fitu- ation. It was of a natural ftrudure, but rather fmaller 'than common. On opening it there was found in it about half a tea fpoonful of bile. The bile in colour refembled that of children, being of a deep yellow brown, and tailed like bile, but it was not fo acridly bitter and naufeating as common bile. Mr. Abernethy remarks upon this cafe, that when an anatomill contemplates the performance of biliary fecretion by a vein, a circumltance fo contrary to the general oeconomy of the body, he naturally concludes that bile cannot be prepared unlefs from venal blood; and he alfo infers, that the equal and undilturbed cur- rent of blood in the veins is favourable to the fecretion ; but that the circumltances of this cafe in which bile was fecreted by an artery prove the fallacy of this rea- foning *. We may further obferve on this cafe, that it does not prove the bile in the natural ceconomy to be fe- creted by the arteries and not by the vena portae; for the artery here was unufually large, fo that it perform- ed a function in this inltance which it does not ufually perform. On the contrary, had the artery been of the ufual fize, we might then have concluded that the vena portae was diftributed to the liver to ferve fome * See Mr, Abernethy’s cafe, of uncommon formation of the liver. Phyf. Tranfa&ions, lefler122 OF THE LIVER. i lefTer life in the ceconomy of the fydem, and that it did not fecrete the bile. The liver, it is faid, was of the ordinary fize. Now as the bulk of the liver is, in its natural date, made up of the dilated veins, it is fotne proof of what I fhould imagine had taken place here, that by fome provifion of the vefTels the arterial blood had been diffufed, and the celerity of its motion checked previous to its ulti- mate didribution. Nay, it may have opened into the branches of veins anfvvering to the extremities of the vena portae. In the deficiency of the due acrid and bitter date of the bile, there is in this cafe evidence that the bile formed from the arterial blood is ftill unfit for the perfect fecre- tion. I conceive this to be countenanced by the circula- tion of the blood in the liver of the foetus, and by its effects upon the fecretion. We have feen that almoft the entire gland is fupplied with arterial blood returning from the umbilical vein 5 and the natural deduction from this is, that it is the caufe of the lefs ftimulating quality of the bile in the foetus. I conclude, that this fingular and intereding cafe may ftrengthen the opinion which fome have enter- tained that the extreme branches of the hepatic artery pour blood into the extremities of the vena portae pre- vious to this formation of the bile by thefe veins; but it dill leaves us with the general conclufion that the peculiarities in the didribution of the vena portae are a provifion for the fecretion of the bile, and that the branch of the aortic fydem, the hepatic artery, is oiherwife neceffary to the fupport of the function of the liver. Finally,123 OF THE LIVER. Finally, as to the ufe of the liver independently of the fecretion of the bile, we mull lay afide the opinions mentioned by Haller that it fupports the diaphragm, protrudes it up in expiration, and receives the contrac- tion of it equally in infpiration, fo as uniformly to com- prefs the other abdominal vifcera; or that it foments and cherilhes the flomach by the heat of its blood. Thefe are at lead as bad as the theories of the ancients mentioned in the beginning of this feftion. Haller’s failing is the promifcuous admittance of all faffs and every kind of theory, with a timoroufnefs and indeci- fion in giving his own opinion. There is another remark of Haller which deferves attention. When I refleff, fays he, that there is no bile required in the foetus, there being no food receiv- ed : when again I fee that the liver is of great fize in the fetus, and not fmaH like the lungs, which are deffined to an operation in the oeconomy after birth, I cannot but fufpeff that it has fome other ufe in the fetus than the fecretion of the bile. If the umbilical vein had opened direffly into the cava, he thinks it would have returned, with too great an impetus upon the heart, and would by its preponderancy have retarded the return of the blood from the lower extremities. He thinks that the liver is ufeful in breaking and weakening the impulfe ol the blood from the umbilical vein; that it is a guard to the right auricle, which would be other- ways endangered by the rapid flow of the blood. Now furely the liver is much lefs able to Hand the impulfe of the blood than the heart; and yet there is no provi- fion for the breaking of the force of the blood in the liver. Further, there is a direft duel of com- municationI 24 OF THE LTVEK. munication leading to the heart. There is no reafon to believe that the umbilical vein carries back the blood with greater force than any other returning vein: on the contrary, from its flze and the length of its courfe it is natural to fuppofe the motion of the blood in it to be very flow and equable. We mud look upon the peculiarities in the circula- tion of the blood in the liver of the fcetus as a provifion againft the fecretion of ftimulating bile ; for when the 'child is born and the circulation altered, bile is formed more abundantly, and becomes the flimulus to the whole abdominal vifcera, roufmg them to new action. As to the comparifon which Haller has made between the ftate of the liver and that of the lungs, it is evident that the latter, though fmail in bulk, are fully formed, and want only inflation to complete their funftion. On the contrary, in the liver of the foetus the veflels are neceflarily diftended with blood, to give them the fize requiflte for this future function; but that blood, cither from its qualities or from the eafy and diredt paflage it has into the heart, does not fecrete the bile in quantity and quality fo as to flimulate the dufts and rnteftines, as in the adult circulation. If it did, we fhould not fee the alimentary canal of the fcetus loaded with matter, and yet not ftimulated to aftion, but in a flate of inactivity and torpor.12$ OF THE PANCREAS. SECTION II. OF THE PANCREAS. The Pancreas is a gland the larged of thofe which have been called conglomerated, that is,diftin£tly con- fiding of lefler parts united. It is of a long form like a dog’s tongue, and lies acrofs the fpine, and behind the ftomach. Its excretory dudt opens into the duo- denum. The pancreas is confined betwixt the two lamina of the mefocoldn, and it is united to them by a loofe cellular membrane; it lies before the great mefenteric vedels: its fmall extremity touches the fpleen, and is near the capfuli of the left kidney : but towards the right extremity it increafes gradually in maffinefs until its head lodges upon the duodenum. It is like the falivary glands in its appearance, confiding of lobules fucceflively finaller and fmaller ; and it alfo refembles them in the manner in which its dufl is formed. The dufl* begins towards the left extremity by exceed- ingly fmall branches; thefe running together form a middle duff, which taking a ferpentine courfe towards the great extremity, and increafed by the accefiion of the lateral branches in its courfe, becomes nearly of the fize of a writing quill. Now approaching the duodenum it unites to the biliary duel, and opens along with it in{p the duodenum. A valve has been deferibed as in the extremity of the pancreatic dufl, but it is • Ductus Virfursgi. certainlv J126 OF THE PANCREAS, certainly incapable of the aftion of a valve, as the bile' has been found to have gone retrograde into the trunk of the pancreatic duft. Sometimes there are two pan- creatic dufts, but more frequently the part of the gland next the duodenum, and which is called the round head of the pancreas *, has an excretory duct peculiar to itfelf, which either opens into the duode- num feparately frotn the main du£t, by piercing the coats of the inteftines nearer the ftomach, or fome- times opens further down. De Graff, Ruyfch and many others have made ex- periments to difcover the nature of the fecretion from the pancreas. Tubes were introduced into the dufts, and bottles were appended to them in living dogs, fo as to catch the pancreatic fluid : it was found roupy, infipid, and like the faliva. It has therefore been con- cluded, from the colour, ftrudture, dudts, and fecretion of the pancreas having fo flricl a refemblance to thofe of the parotid and fubmaxillary glands, that it is of the nature of the falivary glands of the mouth.’ The general opinion has been, that it is ufeful in fe~ creting a fluid which dilutes and moderates the acri- mony of the bile. More accurate chemical examina- tion of the pancreatic fluid has not been made, or has not been fuccefsful in fhowing any peculiarity in it. Confidering the pancreas as a falivary gland, hov/ great mult be the quantity of fluid poured out by it, if,- as we are entitled to do, we take the analogy of the • This is what Window calls the little pancreas, and is fome- tiir.es fcbirrous fo as to comprefs the biliary duds.OF THE PANCREAS. 127 parotid fubmaxillary and fublingual glands. Thefe falivary glands, although they may be faid to furround all the jaws from the zigomatic procefs on either fide, are nothing in maflinefs and fize to the pancreas. Again, the pancreas is moll plentifully fupplied with blood-veffels. Belides lelfer branches of arteries, the .pancreatico-duodenalis gives two branches, which take an extenfive courfe through it, and are joined by other mefenteric twigs; and twigs proceed from the veffels of the llomach, and even from the hepatic artery; but more particularly we have toobferve the large branches bellowed upon it by the fplenic artery, where it takes its courfe clofe upon it. While the malticators are working, the parotid gland pours out fo great a quantity of faliva, fays M. Helvetius, that it is inconceivable, and what I Ihouid not believe, had 1 not feen it in a foldier of the guards. A cut with a fabre in the cheek had opened the falivary dud: the wound healing on the infide of the cheek left a filtulous difcharge from the parotid dud. When he eat, there flowed from this hole a great abundance of faliva ; fo that during dinner, which is not long in the Hotel Dieu, it moiftened feveral napkins. How much mull flow from all the falivary glands ? How much from the pancreas, which is greater than them all colledively ? Like the biliary fecretion it is probable that the con- tents of the llomach pafling the duodenum, or the bile flowing from the biliary duds, form the dimulus to the difcharge of thg pancreatic fluid ; and as we fee that the morfel in the mouth will quickly produce an .abnoft inflantaneous fecretion and difcharge of faliva, 9 laOF THE PANCREAS, 128 fo we are led to conclude that the flow of pancreatic fluid may be as fuddenly produced without the nec'efli* ty of a refervoir, as in the biliary fyftein. We natu* rally conceive that the effect of this fluid is to diminifh the vifcidity of the bile, and by diluting it to mix it uniformly with the food. There are however few fads to enable us to reafon on the effeds of the pancreatic fluid. If we give full credit to the experiments of Malpighi and Brunner we may conclude, that when the pancreas is taken away, the more acrid bile caufes vomiting or voracious appetite by its flimulus. Schir- rus of the pancreas has been found attended with a coflive and flow motion of the inteflines; which feems to contradid the refult ofthefe expeiiments on animals; but by the fchirrofity and enlargement of the pancreas the biliary duds may have been more or lefs com- prefled, and the retarding of the ufual quantity of the biliary fecretion might produce the flownefs of the bowels *. • According to the hypothefis of Silvius, the ufe of the pan- creas was to fupply an acid fpirit or juice, and the biliary fecre- tion being of the nature of an alkali, thefe two ftruggling together caufed the reparation of the chyle from the fceces. This good fight did not flop here, but thele enemies being carried into the blood continued their warfare in the heart itfelf, and lighted up the vital flame there. Nay, if we believe the experiment of F. Schuyl, (de Veteri Med.) this hypothefis was not without its proofs; for having tied in the portion of the duodenum of a living dog, where the pancreatic and biliary ducts entev, he faw the ebulition from this Jtruggle of the acid and the alkali ; and when he comprefled the hepatic dudt, the tumifadiion of the intelline fubfided ; when he took off this comprefiion it was again blown up. As this experi- ment has not fucceeded fince, as Haller obferves, Schuyl was probably deceived by the perlflaltic motion of the inteflines.OF THE SPLEEN. 129 SECTION III. OF THE SPLEEN. The fpleen is a vifcus of an irregular, oval figure, and dark purple colour. It is attached to the great extremity of the ftomach. It is foft in its fubftance ; and has the peritoneal coat very delicate. We Ihould be glad could we fay that it is of a parenchematous ftruc- ture, for in truth little is known of its organization. In treating of this fubjeft we muft be indulged in fome fpeculation ; and indeed it is privileged ground; for the hiftory of the opinions regarding the fuppofed fun&ion of the fpleen is full- of loofe conjectures or wild hypothefis, and nothing is as yet certainly known of its ufe. SEAT AND CONNECTIONS. The fpleen is feated in the left hypochondrium ; above the left kidney; and under the protection of the falfe ribs; and of courfe it is under the edge of the diaphragm. It is connected with the ftomach by the cellular membrane, by the omentum, and in a ftill more particular manner by the vafa orevia. It has alfo connections with the left extremity of the pancreas by cellular membrane, and the branches of the fplenic veffels. Laftly, it has a firmer attachment to the diaphragm, by means of a ligament formed by the pe- ritoneum *. The * Yet the fpleen Is very apt to change its fituation, or to fall down under the protection of the falfe ribs. It is liable to en- Vol. IV. > K largementJ.3° OF THE SPLEEN. The fpleen is of no regular figure. Where it hr contiguous to the diaphragm it is uniformly convex: towards the ftomach its furface, while it is hollowed out and concave, prefents two Tides, fo that we fay the whole mafs is fomewhat of a triangular form. The anterior edge of the fpleen is notched with deep fulci j behind and at the upper part the margin is large and round. The fubftance of the fpleen is the moft fpongy, ten- der, and foft of the abdominal vifcera; fo much fo that not only does the finger make an impreflion up- on its furface, but it a&ually diforders and tears its veflels. After a fuccefsful injedlion the whole feems made up of veflels ; and if any thing like acini or glo- bules are to be obferv'ed, the microfcope will fhow them to be accidentally produced by the fafciculi of veflels. It has a ftrict refemblance to the fubftance of the placenta. The fpleen is feldom fmaller than na- tural ; often greatly enlarged. I have feen it equal to the liver in fi-ze, and filling the whole left fide of the belly. It has been frequently found thus enlarged, without any peculiar fymptoms indicating fuch a dif- eafe during life. From its fbft texture and great vaf- cularity, like the liver, it has been found rent by blows and falls j and wounds here, as in the liver, by open- ing the large veflels are fuddenly fatal. Sometimes it is hard and fchirrous, and marbled in its colour. There is feldom fuppuration in it. The fpleen has been largement in afcites. From which circumftances it will not be wonderful if it is wounded in tapping for the afcites. See Monro on Dropfy. * , fuppofed13* OF THE SPLEEN. fiippofed to fwell up and enlarge when the flomach is empty, and to be contra&ed when it is full. It has been obfefved, that it is large and fpongy in thofe who have died a lingering death, or who have been long ailing: that on the contrary, it is fmaller and firm in thofe who have died fuddenly a violent death. We are informed, that the blood of the fplenic vein is peculiar, irifomuch that it does not coagulate like the blood in the other veins of the body*. That which more than any other circumftance ex- cites our attention, is the great fize of the blood veffels f , of the fpleen. Both the fplenic vein and the artery are of great fize in proportion to the bulk and weight of the fpleen ; and in their courfe they are particularly tortuous. I conceive we may aifo draw confequences from the diftribution of their branches to the flomach (viz. the vafa brevia and left gaftro epiploic) and to the pancreas. Its lymphatics are numerous. It is fupplied with nerves, but has very little fenfibility. It has no excretory duct. Opinions regarding the use of the spleen. Of the various ufes of the fpleen, the lowed: conje&ure in refpedt to ingenuity or probability is, that like a fand-bath it foments the flomach, and promotes the procefs of digeftion. This notion is perhaps not infe- rior in abfurdity to that opinion which afcribed to the fpleen the office of forming an acid juice, which being * With regard to this point I have no opinion, having hither- to neglefted to examine the fa£t. v K 2 carried132 OF THE SPLEEN. carried by the vafa brevia into the ftomach, was fup- pofed to excite the appetite *. It was a better conception that the fpleen is the feat of melancholy ; “ that moping here doth hypochondria fitor of “ laughter holding both his fides,” of which the holding of the fides was an evidence. And again, fince tickling the ribs is a demonftration of the effeft from this excitement of the fpleen f, that the growth of the fpleen promotes laughter to fuch a de- gree, that it becomes a permanent filly fimper imper- tinently excited. Nay further, we have authority for the excifion of the fpleen from thofe who are otherwife incurable in their propenfity to laughter. The following is a theory which has been very com- monly received. A great quantity of blood is imported into the fpleen with a flow motion, owing to its ferpen- tine courfe. When the ftomach is empty, the blood is received in a greater quantity by the fpleen, where it has an opportunity of flagnating. Here the blood fo- mented, attenuated, and in a manner diffolved by the * I am miftaken in calling this the loweft in abfurdity. The fpleen has been confidered as the feat of the foul! the caufe of venereal appetite ! the gland which formed the mucilaginous fluids of the joints! The atrabilis was received here conco&ed and tranfmitted to the liver. It drew forth and formed blood from the ftomach, &c. Other phyftologifts, net contented with the theories prefented to them, and yet incapable of fuggefting others more likely, have very modeftly afferted that the fpleen was of no ufe at all. f Rifus in liene fedes videtnr ex effechi titilationis nataque in plurimis mortalibus rifnm excitat. &c. Haller. His fober ob- jection is, that tickling,the right fide will do as well as the left. neighbour-*33 OF THE SPLEEN. neighbourhood of the putrid foeces in the colon, enters upon the Aril fteps of a begun putrifadtion. By this refolving of the blood it is made more fluid, in which ftate it is returned by the veins, there being no excre- tory du<fts. Now when the fpleen is comprefled be- tween the diftended ftomach and the ribs, and the con- trafling diaphragm, the blood is prefled out from it in greater quantity and celerity towards the liver, mixing with the fluggifh blood in the trunk of the vena portae, repleniihedwith the fat and oil of the omentum, it dilates it and prevents its ftagnation and tendency to congeal. In fhort, the fpleen has been fuppofed to be fubfervient to the funflion of the liver, and to the preparation of a watery (and lubalkaline) fluid to the blood of the portae. Another opinion has been, that it counter- balanced the mafs of the liver feated to the right fide of the belly. Hewfon entertained a theory regarding the ufe of the fpleen which fullies his high character and reputation. He conceived that the fpleen added the flat vehicle of the globules of the blood: his only obfervation in way of proof was, that he faw a few red globules returning by the lymphatics of the fpleen : the effefl, I have no doubt, of the injury of its fubftance, or of the compref- fion of its veflels. It feems to me ftrange that fuch a man feeing the large fplenic artery throwing its full tide of perfect arterial blood into the fpleen, full of globules, complete in every refpecl, and again feeing a few globules carried back by the lymphatics, fhould imagine that this artery formed thefe few vehicles with which it was already fo fully charged. K3 OfOF THE SPLF.EK. *34 Of late years we have feen men endeavouring to raife themfelves into notice by an attachment to the opinions of their departed patrons; by fupporting thofe opini- ons ; by holding, as they imagine, the proofs and illus- trations of them in their pofleflion : but feldoin do we fee the memorv of great men honoured by fuch obfe- quies. The officioufnefs of Hewfon’s friends in pror mulgating his opinions has done no honour to his memory. They have attempted to Support, on ineffi- cient grounds, what he might have had the ingenuity to render plaufible, and which are very far from honour- able to his reputation, imperfect as they now appear. I conceive the Spleen to be an organ SubServient to the ftomach : and not only the conftant attachment of it to the ftomach in the human body, but the coqftancy with which it is found connected with the ftomach in the lower animals, confirms the opinion. I regard if as a provision for giving the veflels of the ftomach an occafional power and greater adlivity, enabling them to pour out a quantity of fluid proportiqned to the ne- ceflity of the digeftion. fn the firft place, let us exa- mine the courfe and form of the Splenic artery, and I think we Shall find the great peculiarity of its Size, and tortuous form, and ftrong coats, a provifion for occa- fional great increafe of power ; while, if not roured by the peculiar Sympathies which actuate it, it is of a form to retard and weaken the velocity of the blood. This is founded on thefe propositions: 1. The mufcular power of an artery increafes as it recedes from, the heart; the elaftic power diminifhes. 2. An artery, the nearer it approaches to its final diftnbution, is the more immediately under the excite- mentOF THE SPLEEN. *35 ment and controul of the organ; is active when the organ is excited ; is, relatively fpeaklng, quiefcent when that organ is not called by its fympathies to exercife its funftion. 3. An artery tortuous in its courfe has more mufcu- iarity and greater power of action than one which takes a (freight courfe; but in proportion to the increafe of power which it obtains by its increafe of length in this tortuous and bending courfe, will thefe turns retard and weaken the force of the heart upon the extreme ramifications of the veffel. Thus a tortuous artery is the means of increafing the velocity of the blood by its own aflion, but it makes the organ lefs dependent on the general force of the circulation. We accordingly find that in thofe organs where there is occafional activity alternating with a quiefcent ftate, the artery is tortuous; and where there is an increafe of force required in the circulation, there, the artery, from being {freight in its courfe, becomes crooked and twilled in every way *, From thefe remarks, we may be inclined to draw, from the tortuous figure of the fplenic artery, a condit- ion fomewhat different from that which has hitherto * This ha.s been fuppofed the effeft cf the impulfe of the blood, but nothing cun be more falfe. Let any one examine the artery of a limb when a great tumour is growing ; the artery will be found tortuous to fupply it. Again, in the aneurifmal varix where there is a breach in the artery, and the blood finds a freer return to the heart, the artery will be found enlarged and tortu- ous in order to fupply the lower part of the limb ; while there is a quantity of the blood withdrawn froip the circulation by the Sornmunicaiion with the vein. K4 beenOF THE SPLEEN-. *56 been deduced. We may conclude that it is not the means of retarding the blood in its circulation, but of giving force to it. The fplenic artery does not only ramify in the fpleen, but it fupplies all the left part of the ftomach, and that great facculated extremity in particular which receives the food, and in which the procefs of digeflion is chiefly performed. My idea is, that when the ftomach is empty, when there is no food in it to folicit the difcharge of the gaftric fluid, the blood circulates in a moderate degree in the coats of the ftomach, and the fpleen receives the furcharge of blood ; but when a full meal is taken into the ftomach, when the adlion of the gaftric juice is required in great quantity, the adtion of the fplenic artery is folicited to the vaia brevia and left gaftro-epiploic artery, and thus a fucJden flow of the gaftric fluid is beftowed by the in- creafed activity of the fplenic artery. When again the contents of the ftomach are fully faturated with the fluids from its coats, there is no longer an excited adlion of the fplenic veflels, and the artery terminating in the veins, the fpleen returns the blood to the liver. While the veflels of the ftomach partake largely of the lupply of blood, the arteries to the pancreas alfo re- ceive fome increafe of activity ; and even the blood of the vena portae requires an additional activity. We have feen that the ftomach and inteftines, the liver, pancreas, and fpleen are combined in fundtion, connedted by the fame fyftem of veflels, mutually fub- fervient to each other, and tending to the fame end, the reception, digeflion, and firft ftage of the aflimila- tion of nutritious matter to the fyftem. We leave this fubject therefore until we can take up that of abforp- tionOF THE SPLEEN. 137 tion and the lymphatic fyftem, and pafs to the kidney and vifcera of the pelvis. SECTION IV. OF THE KIDNEY. The kidnies are diflinct from thofe parts which have hitherto engaged us, as they fecrete the urine, and form therefore the link betwixt the vifcera of the abdomen and thofe of the pelvis ; for though lying in the abdo- men, they are more ftriClly connected with the parts in the pelvis. The ftru&ure of the kidney forms a very interefting fubjeCt of inquiry; becaufe it is the held of difpute betwixt the contending parties regarding the flru&ure of glands and the theory of fecretion. It is chiefly from the kidnies that the facts are drawn in illuftration of the opinions of Malpighi, Ruyfch, and all the others. Form, seat, and connections. The kidnies lie on each fide of the fpine; funk as it were in the fat of the loins ; attached to the mufcles of the loins ; and in part lying on the lower belly of the diaphragm ; which laffc connection is the caufe of the pain felt in refpiration during inflammation in the kidney. The kidney lies betwixt the fpine of the ilium and the Iowefl rib. The right kidney is placed fomewhat lower than the left, which is owing to the greater fize of the liver on that fide. 1 he kidnies are without the abdomen, that is to fay, behind the peritoneum ; for the kidney lying clofe upon*3^ OF THE KIDNEY. upon the mufcles of the loins, the peritoneum is merely ftretched over it. This is the reafon why calculi in the kidney have wrought themfelves out by fiflulse in the loins; and it is the ground of the hazardous propofal of cutting into the kidney to extract calculi. The adipofe membrane furrounds the kidney, and forms a perfect capfule ; for it is this which is fometimes in an extraordinary degree loaded with accumulated fat. Upon this capfule the caecum is attached on the right fide, the colon on the left, and betwixt the kidnies and the mteftines there is a ftrift fympathy, which is ap? parent in the nephretic colic; The figure of the kidney is that of an oval bent, or a little incurvated, fo as to form a fulcus or general con- cavity to one fide, while the other takes a greater con- vexity. By the concave furface of the kidney, which is towards the fpine and great veffels, the arteries and veins and ureter pafs in by the finus round which the fubftance or glandular body of the kidney terminates abruptly. The abdominal aorta and the vena cava lying clofe on the fpine and near to each other, give off laterally the emulgent arteries and veins. The renal or emul- gent artery comes from the fide of the aorta betwixt the upper and the lower mefenteric arteries: that of the left kidney has its origin a little higher than the right: and the aorta being on the left and the cava towards the right fide of the fpine, the left emulgent artery is fhorter than the vein ; the artery longer than the vein on the right fide. Again, the aorta being more plofely attached to the fpine, the emulgent vein %s rather above the artery. Thel39 OF THE KIDNEY. The veflels, and efpecially the arteries of the kidney, are very irregular in their number and form. Where they enter the body of the gland, they are accorm* panied with a capfule which continues with them to this final diftribution. Sometimes a folitary vefifel is feen making its exit by the convex furface of the kidney. We have had occafion to remark on the nerves of the kidnies and their connection with the coverings pf the tefticle, and to notice their effeCt in producing numbnefs of the thigh and retraction of the fcrotum in inflammation of the gland, when Hones lodge in the pelvis or ureter. Upon the fubjeCt of the fenfibility of the kidney, however, we mull be aware that difeafe, inflammation, fuppuration, nay even total wafting of the kidney may take place without any indication from pain. The excretory duCt of the kidney is called ureter : it leads from the kidney to the urinary bladder. When we trace it into the kidney it is found to enter the. naval-like fulcus of its concave fide ; here it is enlarged into a confiderable fac which is called the pelvis of the kidney. This is a kind of refervoir which, lying in the embrace of the folid and glandular part of the kidney, fends up feveral elongations almoft like the finger of a glove, which receive into them the papillae, the concentrated uriniferous tubes. Thefe procefles of the pelvis are called the colices or infundieuli. It may be obferved, however, that the term pelvis is taken from the greater dilatation of the ureter within , ‘ the140 OF THE KIDNEY. the gland, which is feen in brutes; and that in man it is not fo remarkable, the ureter branching with only a leffer degree of the facculated form into three or four divifions, and thefe into the leffer infundibuli. The coats of the ureter are three in number ; a denfe outer coat; a middle coat, apparently confiding of circular mufcular fibres, though this has been denied; and a fmooth inner coat, (very improperly called villous,) which fecretes a mucus to defend it from the acrimony of the urine. The ureters do not run in a direft courfe to the bladder of urine ; they take a curv- ing dire&ion; are in fome places irregularly dilated, as when they pafs over the pfoas mufcle *, dropping deep into the pelvis, and getting betwixt the rectum and bladder they open obliquely into the latter. MINUTE STRUCTURE OF THE KIDNEY. The ancients, fays Malpighi, contented themfelves with the idea of a fieve, as conveying a knowledge of the manner in which the urine was drawn off by the kidney ; that the fibres of its parenchematous matter attra&ed the ferum of the blood ; that the fibrous mat- ter was perforated with innumerable foramina ; or that the whole was a congeries of canals through which the urine was drained and drawn off. Malpighi fet him- felf .to refute thefe vague opinions by the minute' ex- amination of the dructure of the kidney; and he feems * When the bladder is contracted in confcquence of a hone, or when it is dilated by obftruCtion, the ureters are dilated alfo j particularly in the fir It cafe. Whilft they are dilated, their coats become thickened, and their courfe is tortuous. 9 to141 OF THE KIDNEY. The to have known a! mo ft all that we now know. Though we do not acquiefce In his opinions regarding the final and minute ftru&ure, he defcribes accurately every Capsu/ae Rep alts. part of the gland. The Zobulatee/ JTednies of the Foetus. In the firft place, when we examine the outward appearance of the kidney of the fcetus, as in this an- nexed plate, we obferve that it is not, like that of the adult, fmooth and uniform ; but that it is tuberculated or lobulated ; that it confifts of diftinft parts, or glands united together. Again, when v/e examine the kidnies of other animals, we find in feveral inftances that the full-grown animal retains this lobulated form. In fhort, it immediately flrikes us that the kidney is not a uniform mafs of glandular matter, but that it muff re- femble thofe glands which they call conglobate, and which confift of feveral compartments or diftinfl glands united together. Accordingly a fecfion of a kidney fliows us that this is the fail.<JF THE KIDNEY. The * fe&ion of the kidney fhows us thefe parts. Firft, we fee towards the furface that which is called the cortical or glandular part E. Secondly, ftriae, converging towards the centre of the kidney, being * Explanation of the annexed plate. A B C D. The feveral divifions of the kidney which give it the lobulated figure. E E. The cortical part of the kidney* being the outer, and, it is fuppofed, the fecreting part. F F. The tubular part of the kidney. G. The papilla, or that part which projeds into the calyx or divifion of the pelvis. H. The perceptible duds in the point or apex of the papilla. III. The other papilla. L. The point of one of the papilla which we fee projeding into the pelvis. M. The pelvis of the kidney. N. B. This reprefents only one half of the kidney. what*4$ OF THE KIDNEY. what is called the tubular part of the kidney *. Thefe tubuli are divided into fafciculi, taking a conical Ihape ; and thefe converging unite at the apex; two or three of them united form the papillae. The papillae are ge- nerally ten or twelve in number, or even more, in each kidney ; their points are received into the extremity of the infundibula; they pour the urine into thefe tubes, and it is collected in the pelvis. Now when we exa- mine one of thefe papillae in a Iobulated kidney, we find that it is the centre of one of thefe fubdivifions. Thus, B D A.A.,i'ortira/ Su7>stancc • IJ. T'ufuiior part. Q.DapMa. D. Darts. The papilla C is merely the continuation of the tu- buli B ; but it is that part which projects from the body ol the kidney into the calyx; and although thefe divifions of the fubllance of the kidney are enumerated^ as three diftinft parts, the cortical, tubular, and papil- * Improperly medullary, fometimes striata sulcata. F F. 6 lar144 OF THE KIDNEY. Jar parts, they are properly only two, the cortical and tubular parts. Some however have made a new diftin&ion, by afierting that a vafcular part is to be obferved betwixt the cortical and tubular or ftriated parts, as at * ; but it is not the cafe ; for although when we make a re- gular fe&ion of the whole gland, the mouths of fome larger veffels will be obferved betwixt the fafciculi of the urinary tubes, yet they are irregular ramifications tending to the outer cortical part, and not fuch as fe- parate the tubular and cortical part, nor fo regular as to be confidered as one of the fubdivifions of the kidney. OF THE CORTICAL PART. The external and cortical part of the kidney is by all allowed to be the fecreting, or, as they rather term it, the fecerning part of the organ. It was this part which the older writers confidered as in a more particular manner to confifl of a peculiar flefhy fubftance or pa- renchymatous matter. It is in this cortical matter that the glandular bodies defcribed by Malpighi are fup- pofed to be feated. The appearances which he de- fcribes are to be very diflindtly feen in many animals; for example, in the hone’s and cow’s kidney; and are to be feen reprefented in thefe plates; But he afferted thefe bodies to be alfo obfervable in the human kid- ney ; to demonllrate which he ejefted a black liquid mixed with fpirit of wine, by which the kidney becom- ing univerfally tinged, you may then fee, he faid, when you have torn oil the coats of the kidney, fmall glands partakingOF THE KIDNEV. 145 partaking of the colour of the arteries. Thefe are the glands of the cortical part of the kidney, which Mal- pighi defcribed as hanging upon the branches of the arteries like fruit upon the pendant branches, and round which the arteries and veins ramified and con- voluted, like delicate tendrils, fo as to give them the dark colour which they have. Into thefe bodies he fuppofed the urine to be fecret- ed, and from thefe bodies it was conveyed into the uriniferous du£ts or tubular part of the kidney ; but he acknowledges that the communication betwixt the ■duels and glands is very obfeure. Ruyfch and Vieulfens held a very oppofite opinion regarding the ftrufture of the kidney *. Ruyfch, by throwing his injections into the renal arteries, found that he filled the urinary tubes, the duels of Belini, and the pelvis itfelf. Hence he conjectured that the tubuli urmiferi or excretory du£ts of the kidney were the continued branches of the renal artery, without the intervention of any glandular apparatus f. * Ruyfch and Vieulfens long contended for the claim of the difeovery of the continuation of the arteries of the kidney into the urinary duds. Ruyfch at firlt accjuiefced in the opinion of Malpighi, as we have faid. f Thef. Anat. ii. p. 31. Vql. IV. L Examp1eOF THE KIDNEY. • ' Example of Ruyfch’s do&rine *. Ruyfch did not negled the examination of the little bodies which are to be feen in the cortical fubftance. He * Exhibet renis human! dimidiam partem ita diffeftam, ut reptatus vaforum, prefertim fanguineorum, loculentius quam in precedent! Thefauro, tab. iv. fig. iii. videre poffit; ubi mag!s inherebam, ut conjun&iones arteriolarum cum du&ibus Belini exhiberem, in hac autem figura diftindtiffirne vaforum fanguine- orum curfum vermicularem per interiorem renis partem expri- mere volui. A. FaciesOE THE KIDNEY. H7 jeftionsj L 2 He did not however allow they were glands, but confi- dently aflerted that they were merely the convoluted arteries which were formed into thefe contorted bundles before finally ftretching out, and terminating in the draight urinary tubes *. When after minute injeflion of the kidney we make a fection of its whole fubftance, we lee vefiels emerging from the more confufed intricate vafcularity of the cortical part, and running inward in ftrise towards the papillae; what we fee there, are,in my conception, chiefly veins. And this I conclude, bdth from the refult of in- A. Facies renis exterior per quam vafa failguinea reptatUm eblervant verrriicularem. B. Facies renis interior ubi vafa fanguineanon minus curfum vermicularem obfervant quam in facie exteriore. C. Papillae renaled, D. Pelvis renis. E. Cavitas pelvis in quam papiilx urin^m ftillando expri- munt. See Thefaur. Anat. W. p. 27. * In hoc Thefauro X. quoque inveniuntur obje&a renalia ex homine defumpta, in quibus non folum luculenter apparet quid judicandum fit de praetenfis glandulis renalibus, vcrum etiam quid inveftigatoribus renum impofuerit, fe in renibus indagandis faspiflime occurrunt corpofcula rotunda glabdulas mentientia quae revera nil funt nifi arteriolarum ultimae extremitates contortae; cum atrtem exadtiffime repleantur arteriae renales dilfolventur vel expanduntur, quemadmodum fili glomer, ata ut nil minus fmt, ficuti dixi, quam partes per fe fubfiftentes, & peculiar! membra- nula obduftae fine quo immerito dicuntur glanduls. Interim confiderandum ejufmodi contorfiones vaforum fang, nufquam in casteris vifceribus reperiri. In die epift. to Boerhaave, p. 77, we find Ruyfch fpeaking much more modeftly ; “ In rene humano rotunda corpufcula elfe, fateor, fed funt tarn exilia, ut nihil poffim definite de illis. Adeoque non licet magis clicere quod fiiitglandulae, quam aliud quid-”348 OF THE KIDNEY. jedions, and from knowing that the veins are in gene- ral numerous furrounding the excretory duds; befides they retain the blood in them like the veins. Thefe veffels running in flraight lines and converging towards the papillae are not the tubuli uriniferi, but the blood veffels accompanying them, the tubes themfelves being tranfparent. Yet I imagine it was by thefe veffels that Ruyfch was deceived ; for tracing them from the extreme arteries, and feeing them fuddenly altered in their form and diredion, and running towards the Papillae, he im- agined them to be the excretory duds continued from the extreme branches of the arteries. Window fuppofes the corpufcules, which are feen in the cortical part of the kidney, to be the extremities of the cut tubuli, filled either with blood or with a colour- ed injedion. But this they evidently are not ; for by making the fubftance around them tranfparent, they are feen within the furface, and they are little grains not the extremity of tubes, nor extended in lines. Boerhaave, although he faw in the preparations of Ruyfch the injedion paffed into the uriniferous tubes, yet in the main favoured the opinions of Malpighi ; and having fometimes obferved thefe tubes filled with injedions, while at intervals they were tranfparent or pale, and contained only a watery fluid, he ventured to conclude that there was a double operation going forward in the kidney ; that the pale watery urine was quickly drawn off by the continuous tubes j but that the urine of the'other quality and higher colour was feparated by a more perfed and flower fecretion through the glandular bodies. InOF THE KIDNEY. 149, In the hiftory of opinions, to Boerhaave fuc- ceeds Bertin, who writes a long and laboured paper in the Memoirs of the Academy of Sciences for 1744; upon the whole, he may be confidered as endeavouring to prove by diffeclion what was rather an hypothefis with Boerhaave. Bertin defcribes glands in the fub- ftance of the kidney; but thefe he is careful to diftinguifh from the corpufcles of Malpighi, which he alfo conceives to be the extremities of veffels merely. From this plate we (hall eafily underftand Bertiti's description. He obferves, in the fir ft place, that there are to be feen ferpentine veffels, tucn as Ruyfch de- ferred : for example, at A A A*, which arifing at the -dCJZarZirzs- Z'/rr/f * Mefches dc M. Winflow ou vefleaux fpongieux de VieufTens «ti tuyaux ferpentans de Ruyfch. L 3 circumference150 OF THE KIDNEY. circumference of the cortical fubftance, are refledied inward In a tortuous form, and which, at lad, ap- proaching the tubular part, terminate in ftraight tubes, or are continued into the tubuli uriniferi (for ex- ample at B B). But betwixt the mefches of veffels which are de- fcribed, and which are feen here to terminate in the tubuli, there are beds of glands C C C, whicffiacervulae of fmall glandular bodies are as it were laid in the tradt from the circumference towards the centre, and appear to terminate, or to be connected with the tubuli uriniferi as the arteries are. M. Ferrein has oppofed all thefe opinions in a paper of the Academy of Sciences for 1749. He after ts that the body of the kidney is neither compofed of glands nor a congeries of blood veffels ; that it is a peculiar fubftance, which when examined is found to confift of tranfparent veffels. Thefe, he fays, are wonderfully convoluted in the cortical part of the kidney, fo as to refemble glands, and flretch in parallel lines towards the papillae, where they form what is called the tubuli uriniferi. 'Amongfl: thefe tranfparent tubes, the blood veffels ramify to great minutenefs, and accompany them where they are reflecled diredlly inward to form the tubuli. ‘^M.uch ridicule, he obferves, has been thrown upon the terra parenchyma of the ancients; but notwithftanding he affirms that there is in all glands a fubftance diffimilar from the blood veffels, a gelatinous- like matter, which confifts of or contains thefe pellucid tubuli. r , Tubular Part.—The term here ufed is univerfally received 5 and all feem agreed that the ftrke converging to ' : 1 /OF THE KIDNEY. I5I to the centre of the kidney, and taking a pyramidal fhape are the excretory duds. We have feen that they were fuppofed by fome anatomifts to be formed by the continuation of the extreme branches of the arteries; but this opinion we fhall venture to fay arofe from the appearance of the blood veffels injeded, which lie parallel and clofe to them. They are evidently trans- parent tubes, and probably the fibrous appearance of the whole pyramidal body formed by them is owing to the accompanying blood veffels. Thefe leffer duds, as they approach the papillae, terminate in larger duds, which finally open into the duds of Belini at the point of the papillae. The papillae we have feen to be that part of the pyramidal body which projeds into the calyx or infundibulum, and from their point little drops may be perceived to run (from the duds of Belini) when they are comprefled. I have detailed the feveral opinions regarding the llrudure of the kidney; and neither do I wifh here to vamp up an opinion from the aggregate of thefe con- tradidory reports, nor have I been able to draw a decided conclufion from my own experience. In truth, the obfervation from one diffedion I have hitherto found fo completely contradided by other experiments, that I mufl conclude there yet remains much to be done in invefligating the minute ftrildure of the glandular vifcera. OF THE CAPSULE RENALES*. The renal capfules are glandular-like bodies one at- tached to each kidney. The capfule is feated like a * Glandule alralilaria reties fuccenturiate. Glandule renafet, 8cc. L 4 capOF THIS KIDNEY. I52 cap on the upper end of the kidney. It is of a form, like an irregular crefcent, and fuited to the lhape of that part of the kidney to which it is attached j at the fame time that it has three acute edges, or takes a tri- angular form.—(See the drawing of the kidnies of the foetus.)—The upper edge has been called crifta, while- the lower edges have the name of lobes. It is in the foetus that the renal capfule is large and perfect; in the adult it has fhrunk, and no longer bears the fame re- lative fize to the kidney. In the foetus the renal cap- fule is as large as the kidney, and the capfules of each fide are continued into each other, being fcretched acrofs the aorta and vena cava. The veffels fent to this body are fomewhat irregular; they come from the renal or emulgent arteries and veins, from the cadiac artery or phrenic, or from the trunk of the aorta, and even from the lumbar arteries. By feparating the lobes of this body we find fome- thing like a cavity, which has been roundly afferted by fome to be a regular ventricle; by others altogether denied. Finding a cavity, they fuppofed they mull difcover the excretory duct. Some conceived that it mull be connected with the pelvis of the kidney ; fome with the thoracic du£t; fome with the teflicle j but every thing relating to the ufe of this body has hither- to eluded refearch, and all is doubt and uncertain fpe- culation. For my own part I rather conceive that this body is ufeful in the foetus, by deriving the blood from the kidney, that gland not having its proper office, of fecreting the urine, to perform in the foetus.PART THE SECOND, OF THE MALE PARTS OF GENERATION./ f I • } fh 0 ■OF THE MALE- PARTS OF GENERATION. s there is no very accurate divifion betwixt the vif- cera of the abdomen and thofe of the pelvis; as the vifcera of the pelvis, when diflended, rife into the belly, and are in every refpedt like the abdominal vif- cera, many have objedted to a divifion of the vifcera of the abdomen and pelvis: neverthelefs, there appears to be good reafon for this divifion of the fubjedt. The function of the parts is different; the manner of their connection is different; their difeafes have widely dif- rent effedts. We have feen that the pelvis confifts of the facrum and offa innominata, and that anatomifts have diflin- guifhed the true and the falfe pelvis. The falfe pelvis is formed of the extended wings of the offa ilii, and fup- ports the vifcera of the abdomen. The true pelvis, marked by the cavity finking beneath the promontory of the facrum and the linea innominata, contains the redlum ; the urinary bladder; the proflate gland ; the veficulte feminales; and part of the urethra. The manner in which thefe parts are connedled, and the anatomy of the urinary bladder, proflate gland, and urethra, will form the fubjedl of the firfl fedtion; while the anatomy of the parts connedled with thofe of the pelvis in fundtion, but feated without, will form the fubjedl of the fecond.156 OF THE PARTS WITHIN THE PELVIS. CHAP. I. OF THE PARTS WITHIN THE PELVIS. We have feen that the abdominal vifcera are involv- ed in a common membrane; that this membrane is uniformly fmooth; and that it has a fecretion on its furface which bedews the whole, and allows the parts an eafy fhifting motion on each other. The parts in the pelvis mud alfo have motion, but they are at the fame time more drictly conned ed; a loofe cellular membrane is the medium of adhefion here: the parts are imbedded in cellular membrane, which is in- terwoven with mufcular fibres towards the lower open- ing of the pelvis, and further braced by the levator ani mufcle. This gives to the whole due fupport; enab- ling them to refid the compretTion and action of the abdominal mufcles, which they mud receive in com- mon with the higher vifcera of the belly. By turning to the fird plan in this volume we find, that the divifion of the parts in the pelvis and abdomen is not well defined; but we fee that the peritoneum is reflected from the pubes over the urinary bladder, and mounts again upon the rectum. The line of divifion, therefore, is the peritoneum ; while we underhand how the bladder which belongs to the pelvis, being didend- ed, carries the peritoneum before it, and rifes into the abdomen. ' 4OF THE BLADDER OF URINE. I7S SECTION I. OF THE BLADDER OF URINE. As the general nature of the urinary bladder is fo Vrell known, nothing is more fuperfiuous than a gene- ral definition or defcription. It is attached behind the os pubis; is nearly of a regular oval, when moderately diftended, with the ends obtufe ; but from its connec- tions, and the prefiure of the furrounding parts, this regular extenfion is n't allowed in the living body; it ftretches more laterally ; its forepart is attached broad to the back part of the os pubis; and, behind, it is oppofed by the rectum. What the name would imply to be the lower part is above ; for the fundus of the bladder is that part which, when dirt ended, rifes into the belly ; the neck is where it terminates in the ure- thra behind the arch of the os pubis. When the blad- der is empty, or contains only a moderate quantity of urine, it takes a triangular figure, the bafe of which refts on the rectum, and the apex is attached to the back of the os pubis; and when in diffedtion you look down into the pelvis, you find the back part of the bladder fiat, and as it were ftretched obliquely up upon the os pubis Structure of the bladder.—Like the other hollow vifcera, the bladder confifts of feverai coats. * This flatnefs of the bladder, and the nearnefs of the back part of it to the os pubis, the furgeon would'do well to remem- ber, before he thrufts the gorget or ftilet with fuch relentlefs im- fetuofity as I have feen done. The15$ OF TH£ BLADDER OF URINE. The peritoneal coat of the bladder does nof furround the bladder, but only covers the fundus and back part. It. is like in every refpeCt to the peritoneal coat of the abdominal vifcera; fmooth without ; and adhering to the inner coat by cellular membrane; which cellular membrane is, however, of a loofer texture, and in greater quantity than in the abdominal vifcera. This peritoneal coat is no doubt of much fervice as a divifion in obftruCting the courfe of inflammation arif- ing from the difeafes in the lower part of the pelvis, or from operations performed on the bladder, reCtum, or peroneum ; were it not for the loofe peritoneum fpread- ing over the cellular texture of the pelvis, we could neither be fo bold or fo fuccefsful in our operations here. That portion of the peritoneum which covers the back part of the bladder, forms a particular tranf* verfe fold when the bladder is contracted. This fold furrounds the pofterior half of the bladder, and its two extremities are ftretched towards the fide of the pelvis, fo as to form a kind of lateral ligament. Though in the contracted or moderately diftended ftate of the bladder, the peritoneum ftretches from the back of the os pubis to the bladder, the diftention of fhe bladder, in an immoderate degree, raifes the peri- toneum off from the pubes, fo that the bladder can be {truck with a trochar, or lithotomy performed above the pubes, by an inciflon direCtly into the bladder, with- out piercing the outer or peritoneal coat. Towards the lower part, the bladder, as we have feen, is inverted only by cellular membrane, which takes the place of the peritoneal coat of the fundus. While we are aware of the effeCt of the peritoneum, ftretchedOF THE BLADDER OF URINE. 159 ftretched over the parts in the pelvis, in obftruding the progrefs of inflammation from the bottom of the pelvis towards the abdominal vifcera, we mult recoiled that there exifts fuch a fympathy betwixt the bladder, and the ftomach and bowels, that both after operation, and in confequence of obftrudion of urine, the patient will (ink, in confequence of abdominal inflammation, with- out the dired fpreading of the inflammatory adion. Muscular coat.—The mufcular coat of the blad- der is very ftrong. Three ftrata of fibres are defcribed by authors. They are fo ftrong as to have been clafled with the diftind mufcles, and the whole coat has been called detrusor urin,e. Towards the lower part of the bladder the fibres are particularly ftrong, and formed into fafciculi, and are like a net of mufcles in- clofing the bladder. Towards the neck of the bladder the circular fibres are ftrengthened; and embrace the beginning of the urethra; and form a fphinder, which, no doubt, is affifted in its operation by the levator ani mufcle, throwing its ftrong fibres around the neck of the blad- der. The mufcular coat of the bladder becomes greatly ftronger, where difficulties oppofe its difcharge; and when there is a fource of irritation, within the bladder, ading for any time, the whole coats become thickened, fometimes to the depth of half an inch or more ; in which cafe, as we have obferved, to take place in the ftomach, it is capable but of a very incon- fiderable change, either by detention or contradion; confequently the urine runs frequently by painful dif- charges. The lithotomift would do well to diftinguifh when this fymptom is merely the confequence of a ftone i 4 inl6o OF THE BLADtDER OF URINE. in the bladder, and when it is owing to an increafe in thicknefs, and a rigidity of the coats of the bladder $ Jor, in the latter cafe, the operation of the gorget is at- tended with very ferious evils. We have an idea of the wonderful degree of con- traction in the bladder, and indeed the extent of mo- tion in the mufcular fibre in general, when we confider that the bladder extends fo as to contain two pounds of urine, and contracts fo as to force out the lad drop from its cavity. When, however, the fibres are ftretched too far, they lofe the power of contraction, and often the young furgeon is deceived by what he conceives to be an incontinence of urine while it is really an obftruCtion. VASCULAR COAT, OR CELLULAR COAT. When I call this third coat of the bladder the vaf- cular coat, it is merely from its analogy to that coat of the intedines which I have diftinguifhed by the name of vafcular. Anatomifts have called it the nervous and cellular coat; the fird of which is quite improper and the lad apt to be confounded with the furrounding cellular outer coat. This coat (if coat it may be cal- led) confilts of very extenfile white lamella: of Cellular membrane. It gives didribution to a few veffels, and conneCls the mufcular fibres and inner coat. The Internal coat of the bladder is very finooth on its general furface, and is bedewed with a fheathing mucus. When the bladder is didended, no inequali- ties are to be obferved; but when contracted it falls into folds and rugae. From an acrid date of the urine; fromI 6 £ OF THE KIDNET. from drangury, from calculus, the mucous difcharge is increafed, even fo as to form a great proportion of the fluid evacuated from the bladder. No vifible fource of this mucus is to be obferved on the inner furface of this membrane * ; fo that probably it is a general difcharge from the furface. Indeed, it ap- pears, that no folicules or criptse, difc’narging at par- ticular points of the furface, could have the effedl of bedewing and defending the whole furface from the acrimony of the urine. The great fources of the mu- cus difcharged with the urine are, the neck of the bladder, the proftate gland, and the urethra f. The Ureters, which convey the urine from the kidnies to the bladder of urine, open very obliquely into the bladder, towards the back and lowed part of it. The confequence of their oblique perforation of the coats is, that, the greater the tendency of the urine to pafs retrograde into them front the bladder, (there being a proportioned didention of the coats of the bladder,) the more their mouths are cornprefled. Thus, in the dead body, there is no degree of diden- tion which caufes the water to pafs by the ureters. The contra&ion, or rather the red dance to didention, of the ureters and pelvis of the kidnies feems much greater than the powers of the bladder are able to oppofe; for in ohdructions of urine in the urethra, * Window, however, defcribes the glands, and Heifter and Haller defcribe folicules, near the neck of the bladder, and round the infertion of the ureters. t When the mucous fecretion is diminiflied by a difeafe of the furface, it feems much more readily to allow the calculous con-, eretion to form upon it, Vol, IV, M there162 OF THE KIDNEY. there is ftili an inceffant accumulation in the bladder* even when the bladder has increafed to fuch a fize as to be compreffed by the action of the abdominal muf- cles. The caufe of this yielding of the bladder to the fecretion of the kidney is, that it has little permanent contraction, though occafionally its aftion is very great. The URiECus does not belong to the human blad- der. It is a tube which, in the foetus of quadrupeds, communicates betwixt the bladder of urine, and the membrane called alantoes. But in the human foetus there is no fuch communication; both in the foetus, and fomewhat lefs diftindtly in the adult, there is a ligament like the remains of the duft which runs up between the peritoneum and linea alba of the abdomen towards the umbilicus*. i • S E C T I O N II. OF THE PROSTATE, GLAND. On thegjeck of the bladder, and furrounding about half an inch of the beginning of the urethra, there is a gland nearly of the fize and figure of a chefnut. This body is called the proftate gland. In all the ex- tent of anatomy, there is not a more important fub- jeft for the attention of the furgeon than this of the fiae, relation and connexion, and difeafes (with their effefts) of the proftate gland : but to enter upon thefe is not now our objett. The fhape of this body is round, but at the fame time fomewhat pyramidal, for it is broad towards the * It has occurred, that the urine has been in part difcharged by the umbilicus. This, no doubt, is owing to the ligament re- maining permanently as a du&. bladder.OP THE PROSTATE GLAND. 163 bladder, and points forward. It has alfo a divifion, forming it into two lobes; and the older anatomids fpeak of it as double. The urethra paffes through it; not in the middle, but towards its upper furface; fo that the gland is felt more prominent downward, and is didinclly felt by the point of the finger in ano. This glarid indeed reds, as it were, on the redtum. By .the annexed drawing *, it is meant only to give an accurate conception of thefe parts, and not to repre- fent them as they are felt in the living body. For this reafon the drawing is made from a preparation, and not from the recent diffection. When the catheter is introduced, and the furgeon examines the date of parts by the redlum, he will fird didinguilh the curve of the dad, covered with the bulb of the urethra : be- hind this the catheter will feel more bare of parts, but dill covered with a greater thicknefs of parts than one ihould expedl from the defcription of the membrane- ous part of the urethra. And behind this, again, he will feel the prominence of the prodate gland, not round, didindt and accurately defined, but gradually lod in both before and behind, among.the furround- ing cellular membrane and mufcular fibres which in- volve it. The texture of the gland is a compadt fpongy fub- dance, and when cut has confiderable refemblance to a fchirrous gland. From each lobe there are fmall folicules opening into the urethra, and from thefe the dndh may be injedled, * Plates III. andIV. M 2 It164 OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. It has been faid, that there is really no divifion of this gland into lobes : but perhaps the belt authority on this queftion is difeafe. Now it happens fome- times that only one fide of the gland is enlarged, which is a proof that there is fome divifion betwixt the lobes. This unequal fwelling of the gland diftorts the urethra, and gives it a direftion very difficult to be fol- lowed by the catheter. In general, when equally fwelled, the greater part of the gland, being beneath the urethra, raifes it up fo that the point of the calhe* ter muft be raifed over the enlarged gland before we can pafs it into the bladder. This body is little liable to inflammation, and occafional tumefaction, fo as to obftruft the urine ; its enlargement is a chronic hate, and peculiar to advanced age.165 STRUCTURE OF THE PENI3* CHAP. II. Of the parts connected with the viscera OF THE pelvis, but seated without it. —OF THE PENIS AND URETHRA. — OF THE TESTES. SECTION I; of The penis and uretHraa STRUCTURE OF THE PENIS. The penis confifts of three fpongy bodies ; which# being conftituted to receive the influx of blood, admit of diftention, and confequent erection. Two of thefe bodies are called the corpora cavernosa penis# and form the body of the penis; the other is the cor- pus spongiosum urethra, a veficular and fpongy fubftance, which furrounds the whole length of the urethra, and expands into the bulb of the urethra in the perineum, and into the glans on the point of the penis. Corpora cavernosa. The body of the penis confifts of two tubes forpied of a very ftrong (heath. This (heath has a great degree of elafticity, but at its utmoft extenfion powerfully refills the farther diften- tion with blood. Thefe tubes are united in the greater part of the length of the penis, or they are parted by an imperfed partition. The root of thefe bodies, M 3 orl66 . ■* STRUCTURE OF THE PENIS. or crura penis, as they are called, feparate in the perineum, fo as to take hold on the ramus of the os pubis. Foreward, thefe bodies or tubes terminate in rounded points under the glans penis. Thefe tubes are of a ligamentary nature, bating .that they have a certain degree of elafticity. They in- clofe and fupport the cavernous ftruCture of the penis. This fubftance confifts of cells connected with each other and having a free communication through the whole extent of the penis. Thefe cells are interpofed betwixt the extremities of the arteries and veins, or probably while the arteries have communication, and open into the extremities of the veins, in the common way, they have fuch connections with the cellular ftru&ure, that in the accelerated aftion they pour their blood into the cells; yet the blood circulates in the penis during erection as at other times. Seflion of the Penis as inflated.STRUCTURE OF THE PENIS. 16/ A, Corpus Cavernofum Penis. B, Septum. C, Ure- thra. D, Corpus Sponge Minus, or fpongeofum Urethrae. Corpus spongeosum urethra. ' Surrounding the urethra there is a fpongy body fimilar to that which forms the body of the penis. Where this fpongy (heath of the urethra lies in the pe- rineum, betwixt the crura of the penis, it is enlarged with a round head, which is called the bulbous part;— it is upon this, and on about an inch and an half of the lower part of the fpongy body, that the ejacula- tor feminis, or accelerator urina; acts ; and, as within this enlargement of the fpongy body which furrounds the urethra there is alfo a dilatation of the tube of the urethra itfelf, the ufe of the mufcle is evident. It contrads upon this finus of the urethra when diftended with the difcharge from the veficulae, the proftate gland, and tefticle. As an accelerator urinae, it can- not ad, but it expels the laft drop of urine, as a con* fequence of their detention in this more dilateable part of the urethra. The fpongy (heath of the urethra, as we have hinted, is enlarged into the glans, fo that the ac- tion of the accelerator mufcle affeds the whole length of the fpongy body of the urethra and the glans by the compreffion of the blood in the bulb. There is a connedion betwixt the glans, fpongy tube of the urethra, and accelerator mufcle. The excitement of the glans gives the adion to the accele- rator or ejaculator mufcle ; the adion of this mufcle. M 4 compreSesl68 STRUCTURE OF THE PENIS. comprefies the bulb, and in confequence the whole ipongy body to the extremity of the glans is made tenfe, elongates, and contra&s the diameter of the urethra, adapting it to the emiflion of femen. Mr. Home, I obferve, fuppofes “ that an a&ion takes “ place in the membrane of the urethra during copu- w lation, to reduce the fixe of the canal, and fit it for “ throwing out the femen with the neceflary vdo- i( city but for this, there feems no ground nor proof; and I imagine, the action of the accelerator, and the date of diftention of the fpongy body, will be a good fubflitute to his conjecture. The obtufe point of the glans is. fpread upon the extremities of the cavernous bodies of the penis, which yet have no communication with-the glans. We ob- ferve a circular margin, the corona glandis, and be- hind this the cervix. About the corona and cer- vix there are many little glandular folicules which are no doubt for preferving the mobility of the pre- putium. The preputium is a loofe prolongation of the in- teguments of the penis, which hangs over and de- fends the delicate and fenfible furface of the glans. Its inner furface is of courfe the continued furface of the common integuments, while it again is reflected over the glans. Upon the lower fide the preputium is tied in, a particular manner to the furface of the glans behind the orifice of the urethra. This connexion li- mits the motion of the preputium, and is called fre- n'um PREPUTII. * Gian dub odorif. of Tyfon. See Morgagni. The £STRUCTURE OP THE PENIS. 169 The whole integuments of the penis are of the fame cellular fcru&ure with thofe of the reft of the body, and may be with equal facility inflated : they are particular- ly loofe and diftenfible, and unincumbered with fat. A third common integument of the penis is diftin- guifhed, and is called the tunica nervofa. Tt is of a fnore firm elaftic ligamentary fubftance. A ligament, however, is not elaftic, and the firmnefs here is mere- ly that of a greater degree of condenfation in the com- mon membrane. It is this membrane, which being attached to the os pubis, and fupporting the penis, forms the ligamentum elafticum fufpenforium. A Gians. B B Corona Gland is. C Cervix. D Corpus Caverno- fum Penis. E E Corpus Spon- geofum Ure- thra. F Cruraof the Penis, by which it is attached to the Ramus of the Pubis. H Vena ipfius Pe* nis.I70 STRUCTURE OF THE FENlS* OF THE URETHRA. The urethra is all that length of the canal from the neck of the bladder to the extremity of the penis. It is formed of the continuation of the inner and third coat of the bladder, which laft forms a reticular mem- brane, uniting the inner membrane to the fpongy body. It is, however, fupported through all its length, near the bladder, by palling through the proftate gland and fphindter fibres} further forward than this, where it partes from the proftate to the beginning of the fpongy body of the urethra, it is inverted and fup- ported by firm cellular and ligamentous membranes; and in the length of the penis it is included in the fpongy body, which extends from the bulb to the glans. It cannot be aefcribed as a cylindrical canal, for it ad- mits of very unequal diftention. It begins large at the neck of the bladder, where, immerfed in the proftate gland, it forms a little fmus; it is contra&ed again in a remarkable degree behind the bulb; it dilates into the sinus of the urethra within the bulbous en- largement of the fpongy body; it is gradually dimi* nifhed forward ; and it may be confidered as cylindri- cal forward to the point of the glans, where it is much contracted *, and where we often find calculi detained, which have parted the whole length of the canal. The canal of the urethra is bedewed with mucus. The fources of this mucus are here particularly appa- rent ; for, befides the general furface, there are large * Haller Com. lib. xxvib fe&- i. $ xxx. Mr'. Home's Strictures. lacunaeSTRUCTURE OF THE PENIS. IJ?! iacunre feen; into which the mucus is fecreted, and from which, as from receptacles, it is prefled as the urine flows. The inner membrane of the urethra ft very delicate, and, when torn by the catheter, or by violent chordee, or opened by the cauftic, bleeds profufely. The interna! membranes of the bladder and urethra are particularly fenfible ; drawing after them, when excited, not only the aftion of all the mufcles in the lower part of the pelvis, but having fympathies in a particular manner with the tefticle, ftomach, and bowels, and with the whole fyftem. The more curi- ous and important effect of the injury of the urethra is the paroxyfm of fever which it induces. Obferving the regular occurrence of an intermitting fever in cafes of fiftula in the perineum, we fhould imagine it to be the efle£t of the extravafation of the urine in the cel- lular membrane, and the effeft of general irritation ; until it is obferved that the Ample ftrifture produces that effett, and that a touch of the cauftic brings on a violent paroxyfm. When the reticular membrane is inflamed, of courfe it lofes its elafticity, and gives pain in erection. Sometimes the inflammation, being continued to the fpongy body furrounding the urethra, makes it un- equal in its capacity of diftention to the cavernous bodies of the penis, and fometimes their cells are united by adhefton in the worft cafes of chordee. I cannot imagine with fome, that the urethra is mufcular ; firjl* becaufe I fee no end it could ferve in the ceconomy ; fccondly, becaufe there is no proof in fupport of the opinior. 5 thirdly, becaufe it is fur- rounded-172 STRUCTURE OF THE PENIS. rounded with ftrong fibres and a fpongy body, which conjointly feem calculated for every purpofe of the ceconomy, and likely to account for every fymptom which might be miftaken for fpafmodic aCtion in the canal itfelf. The idea of mufcularity is derived from the fymptoms of ftriCture and irritability of the canal. I fhall therefore, in the firft place, fhew how I con- ceive ftriCture is produced. The urethra is very elaftic; not only allowing a very large bougie to be paffed, and clofing upon a thread, but it ftill more remarkably admits of elongation than of diftention in the width of the canal. It is fur- rounded, as we have feen, with a fpongy body and the cellular coat which is betwixt the delicate lining mem- brane of the urethra, and the fpongy body partakes of the ftruCture of both, and is very elaftic. But when an inflammation attacks the canal, this cellular membrane is its principal feat. The point affeCted lofes its elafticity ; no longer ftretches with the penis and urethra, but confolidates, and throws the inner membrane into a fold in a di- rection acrofs the canal. Thus the membrane at A has con- tracted and condenfed in copfequence of inflammation, or rather, when contracted, by the fhrinkipg of the urethra in length and its fpongy body has formed an adhefton, and. In confluence of inflamma- tion^ has loft its elafticity and no longer dilates in the pro- portionSTRUCTURE OF THE PENIS, 173 portion of the reft of the canal. The confequence of this is, that the point of the inner membrane B makes a proje&ing ring round the urethra. To fuppofe this ftri&ure to have been formed by the mufcular con- traction in the diameter of the canal *, would be to allow the partial aCtion of one or two fibres ; (for the ftriCture is like that which would be produced by the tying of a pack-thread round the canal, being a nar- row circular ridge ;) which is very unlikely. Some- times, however, the ftriCture is only on one fide of the canal, which, allowing it to be formed as I have here fuppofed, is very likePy to happen : but in confe- quence of the mufcular aCtion, cannot eafily be fup- pofed to take place, fince the drawing of the mufcular fibres would equally affeCt the whole circle. As to the effect of beat and cold on an obftruCtion, it may be explained fimply, without the fuppofition of mufcular contraftion : for as we know that the penis, fpongy bodies, and of courfe the whole canal, relax and elongate in warmth, as they are fhrunk up and contracted in cold, like the fkin of the body in general, without implying mufcular contraction : fo we fee how this ftate would affeCt a ftriCture ;—that, when the penis and the urethra was fhrunk, the effeCt of the ftriCture would be increafed, and the patient could pafs his urine only when the parts were relaxed, by fitting in a warm room, or by the ufe of the bath, * “ A Ari&ure,” fays Mr. Home, “ whether in the fpafmo- f< die or permanent flute, is a contra&ion of the tranfverfe fibres *6 pf the membrane which fprms the cau^l.” Butij4 STRUCTURE OF THE PENIS. But when furgeons fpeak of fpafms of the urethra, they f^em to forget the aftion of thefurroundingmufcles. Thus acrid and dimulating urine, or an irritable date of the urethra, will be followed by a fmall dream of urine: or perhaps a temporary obdruclion is the confequence: but why fhould we fuppofe that the membrane of the urethra, which has no appearance of mufcularity, caufes this effeft, when it is probably produced by the fphindter mufcle, the fibres which furround the membraneous part of the urethra, the levator ani, and, above all, by the accelerator urinae, a mufcular (heath of fibres furrounding three or four inches of the canal. Round the membraneous part of the urethra, and behind the bulb, there is-much inter- lacing of mufcular fibres ; and the levator ani, fplitting, embraces it. Round the finus of the urethra and the bulb which covers it, is the accelerator urinse, more properly the ejaculator feminis : and as the ejaculator feminis contradts upon the finus, it drives onward the femen along the urethra, fince the feminal fluids do not pafs backward into the bladder, unlefs when the ac- tion of the parts is much difordered ; there mud be a contraction round the urethra behind the bulb during the adlion of the ejaculator. The fenfibility of the glans holds a controul over the adlion of thefe muf- cles.; and the difeafe of the bladder and of thefe parts affedts the glans. There is, in fhort, a complicated apparatus here, and we cannot wonder, that the mod frequent feat of difeafe is jud at the beginning of the finus of the urethra,'where the mufcular a&ion is dronger, and the canal narrowed. At this place is the dridlure of the urethra mod common, and here 6 ifOF THE TESTES-* *75 if fpafm and mufcular aclion fhould bring it on, if fpafmodic a&ion fhould prevail during the permanent ftridure, or bli dering bring on a ftrangury, (feeing that this point is fo furrounded with mufcular fibres deftined to a particular a&ion,) we muft not take thefb fymptoms as indicating a mufcularity in the whole tra& of the urethra. I believe it is found, that ftric? ture is molt frequent juft behind the bulb of the urethra; where I have alleged, the mufcularity is greateft ; and alfo about the diftance from the extre- mity of the urethra which anfwers to the termination pf the ejaculatpr m.ufcle, SECTION II, OE THE TESJES, The testicle might be confidered as more na- turally connefted with the abdominal vifcera, than with thofe of the pelvis, as its original feat is on the loins amongft the abdominal vifcera, and as it re- ceives its coats from the peritoneum, and its veffels from the abdominal veffels. The teftes are two glandular bodies which fecrete the femen : they receive their veffels from the aorta and cava, or the emulgent veffels; their excretory dudl runs up into the belly, and it terminates in the urethra near the neck of the bladder. The scrotum, in which the tefticles are lodged, is a continuation of the common integuments; its cel- lular membrane is particularly lax and free from fat, and anafarca extremely apt to fall down into it, fo as176 OF THE TESTES. as fometimes to diftend the fcrotum to a tranfparent bag of enormous fize; and not unfrequently it has been blown up to counterfeit rupture and other difeafes. The cellular fubdance of the fcrotum is peculiar in its appearance, being red and fibrous. It has been confidered as a mufcle, and called dartos : although this is denied by many. Its action is to fupport and brace the fcrotum ; and in bad health *, and in old age, it is fo much relaxed as to allow the tedicles to hang upon the chords. But befides the fimple corru- gation and relaxation, the fcrotum has a motion like the vermicular motion of the intedines, from fide to fide, and alternately. Its contraction has a relation to the healthy fecretion of the gland within. Upon the furface of the fcrotum, dire&ly in the middle, there is a line palling from the lower part of the penis to the anus ; the rafha. This line marks a divifion in the fcrotum, not fuperfjcial merely ; but a partition, or feptum, is formed, dividing the fcro- tum. into two didindt cellular beds for the teflicles. Coats of the testicle. Befides the involving fcrotum, each teflicle has two didindt coats, the tuni- ca vaginalis and tunica albuginea. The tunica vagi- nalis covers the tedicle loofely ; that is, without ad- hering to its general furface : but the albuginea is in clofe union with it, and is the immediate coat of the teflicle. The inner furface of the vaginal coat is per- fectly fmooth, and an exudation is poured out from • Nurfes particularly attend to the (late of the fcrotum in children.OF THE TESTES. 177 it as from the peritoneum within the belly, the outer furface of- the tunica albuginea is alfo finooth and firm, and white, whence its name. But on its inner furface, like the peritoneum, which covers the in- teftine, and adheres to the mufcular coat, it adheres to the tubes of the tefticle itfelf. Thefe inverting coats are in fome refpedts diffimilar, yet in general much alike, being continuations of the fame mem- brane, and both prolongations of the peritoneum. The outer membrane, the tunica vaginalis, is a pro- tection to the tefticle, gliding eafily on the inner coat, and with the mobility of the cellular membrane of the dartos it preferves the terticles from bruifes and ftrokes to which it would be expofed if it were more firmly attached. The inner tunic, or albuginea, gives rtrength and firmnefs to the fubftance of the tefticle. Betwixt thefe coats is the fluid collected, which forms the hydrocele. They alfo contain the congenital her- nia $ but the common hernia is without both coats of the tefticle. To underftand the principles of anatomy of this part, we muft attend to the defcent of the tefti- cle, and to the manner in which thefe coats are formed. OF THE DESCENT OF THE TESTICLE. In the foetus, fome months before birth, the teftr- cles are lodged in the belly, and are in every refpeCt like the abdominal vifcera. They are feated on the fore part of the pfoae mufcles, by the fide of the rec- tum. They are of courfe covered and inverted by the peritoneum -t for, as we have explained how the Vol. IV. N folidOP THE TESTfiS. folid vifcera and the inteftines are behind the peri- toneum, fo it will be underftood how the tefticles ly- ing on the loins are behind the peritoneum : that is to fay, the glandular fubftance of the tefticle is inverted by a Angle coat, and that coat is the peritoneum, which, after covering the body of the tefticle, is reflected upon the loins ; as the coats of the liver, for example, are to, be traced from its furface to the diaphragm : no words, however, can well explain this fubjetl, and it will be better underftood by fe&ions and plans. Firjl Plan of the Tcjlick. We fee that the body of the tefticle A is feated on she loins, that it is attached by veftels, and inverted 4 byOF THE TESTES. *79. by the peritoneum. This furrounding of the body of the tefticle by the peritoneum forms that coat which is in union vvi'th its ftlbftance, and which defcends with it into the fcrotUm, and forms the tunica al- buginea. The figure ami prefenting furfaces of the tefticle, while within the belly, are the fame which we find after it has defcended into the fcrotum. It ftands edge-ways forward, and the epididimis lies along the outfide of the pofterior edge of the teftes. We fee that it is attached, by the peritoneum being reflecled off from its back part, and we can trace the perito- neum upwards over the kidney G, and downward over the reCtum F, and bladder of urine E. We may alfo obferve a procefs of the peritoneum which has pafied through the abdominal ring, and which in this plan is marked D. Now it may eafily be underftood that the tefticle A, gradually ftlifting its place .from its connections in the loins, drops down into this {heath D. It will alfo be eafily under- ftood how the tefticle covered with its firft coat B, (viz. the tunica albuginea,) when it has fallen into D, is invefted by this fac of the peritoneum, and that this laft covering will come to be the tunica vaginalis. The tunica vap-’malis is fo called becaufe it covers* the tefticle like a fheath ; that is, it does not univerfally adhere to the furface of the albuginea, as that coat does to the body of the tefticle. TJnderftanding the nature of the peritoneum, w* may learn the meaning of this lb diene fa of the outer coat of the tefticle. By turning to the introductory fection of the abdominal mufcles, we find, that the / N 2 infide180 OF THE TESTES. infide of the fac of the peritoneum is fmooth, and forms no adhefion ; whilft the outer furface, being in contact with the fubftance of the feveral vifcera, has a connection with them by a common cellular mem- brane. Now, as the infide of the peritoneum does not adhere, as the furface of the peritoneum, (which in this firft plan is towards C,) is fmooth, and has no tendency to unite with the furface of the vifcera; fo neither has the furface of the peritoneum at D, the tendency to unite with the peritoneum (or the furface of the albuginea,) at B, when it defcends to meet it: confequently the coat of the inteftines may be repre- fented in this fecond plan, thus. Second Plan of the Tejlhle. 2<lPla/i of the Testicle . IA the firft plan, we had the fituation of the tefticle in the foetus reprefented. In the fecond plan, we have' OF THE TESTES. l8l have the middle ftage of the defcent reprefented : and, in the third, we have the full defcent. In the iecoud figure, A is the body of the tefticle, B is the fir ft peritoneal covering or tunica albuginea, which can be eafily traced, refle&ed off from the loins at C ; again, D is the portion of the peritoneum, which hav- ing defcended before the tefticle is prefently, when the tefticle has fully defcended, to become the fecond, or vaginal coat of the tefticle; F is the continuation of the peritoneum upon the infide of the abdominal mufcles. In the third figure of this feries, we find the tefticle A has defcended into the fcrotum; that it has one coat covering it, which we recognize to be the fame with B, in the firffc figure, and that the peritoneum in this third plate at B, can be traced to C, the peritoneum within the belly. Now fuppofing this to be the ftate of the tefticle immediately after it has defcended, we fee that there is ftill a communication betwixt the cavity of the mni- ca vaginalis D, and the cavity of the peritoneum E. F is the kidney, covered by the peritoneum, and near- ly in the fituation in which the tefticle was before its defcent.OF THE TESTES. 382 From this fourth plan of the tefticle, we may learn the nature of the congenital hernia. It is a hernia produced by the inteftine flipping down, from the communication betwixt the general cavity of the peri- toneum, and the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, or in confequence of an adhefion betwixt the tefticle and a portion of the gut, which of courfe caufes the gut to follow the teflicle, and prevents the communication betwixt the belly and the cavity of the tunica vaginalis from being fhut. Thus, fig. 4. A, is the tefticle, aS it is feen in plan 3d. B, the tunica albuginea ; C, the peritoneum within the belly ; D, the tunica vagi- nalis, which we can trace from C, and which is dif- tended and feparated from the furface of the tefticle, (/. c. of the albuginea) by a portion of the gut, which has defcended through the ring: F, the inteftines within the belly : G, the inteftine which has fallen into the tunica vaginalis, and is in contact with the tefticle; that is, in contact with the tunica vaginalis, which is in clofe union with the gland, and is confidered as its furface. We have explained the change which takes place in the fituation of the tefticle, as it relates to the peri- toneum ; but how this change is brought about, if is very difficult to underftand. It is not a fudden pulling down of the tefticle, but a very gradual procefs, con- tinuing for months; it is not the efte<T: of gravitation, for the foetus may be in every variety of pofture while in the womb, and generally the head prefents. It is not refpiration. Is it then the efteft of the a&ion of the cremafter mufde ? or muft we refer it to a law fuch as that0F THE TESTES. 183 that which controuls and directs the growth of parts ? When the parts in a foetus before the defcent of the tefticle are differed, there is found a ligamentous, or cellular cord, mingled with the fibres of the cre- rnafter mufcle, and which takes its origin from the groin, is reflected into the abdominal ring, and ftretches up to the body of the tefticle. This body is called ligament or gubernaculum, and to the agency of this bundle of fibres, is the defcent of the tefticle attributed. There are, however, objections to this. If we fuppofe that the cremafler mufcle, by its exertion, brings down the tefticle to the ring. How does it pafs the ring ? for furely we cannot fuppofe that this muifcle, which takes its origin from the internal oblique mufcle, con- fequently within, can contract, not only fo as to bring the tefticle to the very point of its origin, but to pro- trude it pad that point, and through the tendon of the external oblique mufcle. Again, animals have the cremafler mufcle, whofe tefticles never defcend out of the belly ;—again, the veflels of the cord, before the tefticle has fully defcended, (how no marks of being: dragged down, for they are elegantly tortuous. As the tefticle paffes very flowly from the loins to the ring; fo, after it has efcaped from the belly, it paffes flowly from the ring to the bottom of the fcrotum. It commonly remains fome time by the fide of the penis, and only by degrees defcends to the bottom cf the fcrotum *. In * Mr. Hunter has fhewn, that the detention of the tefticle in the belly is in confequence of fome defect and want of adtion in N4. tl-eOF THE TESTES. 1§4 In this change the tefticles do not fall loofe into the elongation of the peritoneum like a piece of gut or omentum in a rupture;—but, carrying the perito- neum with them, they continue to adhere to the parts behind them, as they did to the pfoas mufcle while in the loins: a point of importance to be recolle&ed by the young furgeon. The communication betwixt the belly and the fac of the vaginalis is very foon obliterated by the adhefion of the upper part, and then the whole extent of the paflage (viz. from E to D, in plan 3d of this feries,) is fhut. When this procefs is prevented in the firft inftance, when nature is baulked in the humour of do* * ing her work, as Mr. Hunter obferves, Ihe can not fo eafily do it afterwards. It has alfo occurred that, this communication re- maining after birth, a hydrocele has been produced by the diftention of the tunica vaginalis, by fluids de- scending from the belly. The charadler of fuch a tu- mour will be, that the fluid will be eafily forced into the belly. It may, however, be miltaken for a con- genital hernia *, It will already be underftood, that in the common hernia of the groin or fcrotum, the gut does not pafs by the communication from the belly into the vaginal the tefticle, and that thofe who have the tefticle remaining in the belly have it imperfett or {mall. This is contrary to an old authority :—The tefticles are feated externally, “ for chaftity’s “ fake, for fuch live-wights as have their (tones hid within their body, are very lecherous, do often couple, and get “ many young ones.” * Such is the remark of Mr. Hunter. 6 coat ;OF THE TESTES. 185 coat; that fuch communication no longer exifts, and that when there is a rupture from preternatural wide- nefs of the abdominal ring, or in confequence of a great violence, a new portion of the peritoneum de- scends with the gut before the cord of the tefticle. Fifth Plan of the Te/ljck. lit* l* nia . This 5th plan will now illuftrate the relation of the teflicle to the herniary fac in the common fcrotal her- nia. A, the fcrotum : B, the teflicle ; which will be eafily underftood to preferve its attachment to the back part of the fcrotum: C, the tunica vaginalis, which here inverts the tefticle, but which is not now (in the adult or perfect ftate of the coats of the tefticle), as is feen in plan 3d, open from B to E, but forms a fhort fac furrounding the tunica albuginea : D, the cellular membrane of the cord of vefl'els parting down to the tefticle. And now there are no remains of the tube of commumca.OF THE TESTES. iSG communication betwixt the belly and vaginal cavity; it is obliterated and refolved into this cellular mem- brane. We fee then, that in this plan the teflicle and its coats, and the fpermatlc cord, are in their natural fituation, and that the herniary fac has defcended be- fore them. E, is the ring of the external oblique inufcle of the abdomen, through which not only the teflicle, with its coats and veffels, has defcended, but alfo the hernia: F, the herniary fac, which contains a portion of the gut; it is formed of the peritoneum, fallen down from the belly, but it is quite diflincl from the fac of the tunica vaginalis C. Whilfl this new procefs of the abdominal peritoneum has defcended, it has contra&ed adhehons, and cannot now be replaced. In thus explaining thefe important principles of ana- tomy, and which the anatomical fludent will find won- derfully to facilitate the more minute fhidy of furgical anatomy, it only remains to fnovv the nature of the hydrocele. The hvdrocele is a cclleclion of wTafer within the fac of the tunica vaginalis ; that is, betwixt the tunica va- ginalis and tunica albuginea. For, as we have feen, that the fame furface of the vaginal coat is contiguous to the furface of the teflicle (viz. the albuginea,) with that of the peritoneum, which is contiguous to the vifcera of the belly ; and as it has the fame exudation, fo it has the fame difeafe, viz. a colledlion of water, from the abforption being difpropor donate. to the exu- dation, When the tunica vaginalis is diftended with the water of a hydrocele, the teflicle is towards the back part ci: the loroturn; it can be felt there!; and - whenOF THE TESTES. i*.7 when the fcrotum is placed betwixt the candle and tha eye, we fee the tranfparent fac on the fore-part of the tumor, the opaque mafs of the tefticle behind ; gene- rally the diftended vaginal coat ftretches up before the cord conically. Thus, Sixth Plan of the Tejlicle. 6'.hFlare of the Testicle Hydrocele. A, the penis; it is generally corrugated thus, in confequence of the diftention of the fcrotum in fcrotal hernia and hydrocele : B, the fcrotum : C, the tefticle, covered only by the tunica albuginea: D, the cellular membrane of the cord : E, the tunica vaginalis, dis- tended with the water of the hydrocele, and confe- quently feparated from the furface of the tefticle: F, that part of the fac of the vaginal coat, which often ex- tends©F THE TESTES. ?88 tends conicaly before the cellular membrane of the cord D. Now we fee that the diftention of the vaginal coat does not open up the old communication with the belly ; but that, the former communication being fhut, and the peritoneum there degenerated into the cellular membrane of the cord, the hydrocele is a diftinft fac, furrounding the tefticle, and formed of the tunica va- ginalis. To underftand this fubjeft of the coats of the tefticle, it is not neceflary merely to confider the defcent of the tefticle; but the ftudent rauft confider it in every point of view, turn it as it were irto every variety of pofture, without which his difficulties . ill perpetually return upon him. It is for this reaion that I have endea- voured to reprefent fimply fhe various ftates of the coats of the tefticle in difeafe. OF THE VESSELS OF THE CORD AND TESTICLE. In attending to the defcent of the tefticle, we have a cue alfo to the vafcular fyftem. If we did not know that the tefticles were originally placed in the loins within the belly, we might wonder at the length and origin of the fpermatic veflels. The spermatic artery rifes from the fore-part of the aorta, below the emulgent artery, or from the emulgent artery, (generally on the right fide,) and fometimes from the arteries of the renal capfule : fome- times there is only one, fometimes there are two iper- matic arteries. This artery, which the cord receives from the aorta or emulgent, is called the fuperior fpermatic artery, becaufe there is another which rifes from189 OF THE TESTES. from the hypogaftric artery: this branch funs up- ward, connected to the vas deferens, as it rifes out of the pelvis. Thefe arteries, taking their courfe under the perito- neum, join the fafciculus Forming the cord, and fup- ply the cord, and fend twigs to the inverting perito- neum ; they then pafs through the abdominal ring, and in their courfe they are beautifully tortuous. The veins of the tefticle rife on the right fide from the trunk of the cava, a little below the emulgent vein, and from the emulgent vein on the left fide. In the origin of thefe veins there are frequent varieties 5 there is alfo, accompanying the vas deferens, a vein, which joins the internal iliac vein. Thefe veins, in their courfe from the tefticle, are protected from the column of blood, and from the bad confequences of compreffion, by numerous valves. Thefe valves are very ftrong, and will bear a great column of mercury before they give way or burrt. This plexus of convo- luted veins of the cord is the raoft beautiful in the body. This convoluted ftate of the veins is ever at- tendant on great a&ivity and exertion of the arteries of the part. If there is a provificn in the fhape, courfe, and ftrength of the arteries, for occafional acceleration of the blood through them ; fo will there be found in the veins a tortuous and varicofe appearance j and again, if by accident there is excited an uncommon aflion in the arteries of a living body, that asrtion will be apparent from the diftended or enlarged ftate of the veins. In the tefticles of fuch animals as have their feafons, the artery and veins of the teflicle are ftill more convoluted.OF THE TEiTES. I90 The convoluted, and form a rnafs of veflels, which ha£ been called the corpus pyramidale *. The nerves of the tefticle, lFke the blood-veffelS, come from the loins, and are continued down upon die veflels in the fpermatic plexus. This hill farther allies the tefticle to the abdominal vifcera, giving them much of the fame fympathies. The ftomach, intef- tines, and tefticle, fympathife readily with each othen As we find the tunica albuginea of the tefticle to be very firm, denfe, and unelaftic, the great pain in in- flammation of the tefticle has naturally been attributed to the refiftance made by this coat to the fwelling of the fubftance of the tefticle, but much muft be afcribed to the natural fenfibility of the part, independently of fwelling and tenfion; for in the very moment of a blow, a perfon faints and falls down from exquifite pain. - The lymphatics of the tefticle are numerous, and eafily demonftrated by blowing up the cellular ftruc- ture of the body of the tefticle; and we fhall by-and- by find, that this has been the ground of difpute be- tween phyfiologifts; and the proofs of feme import- ant points in the dodlrine of abforption have been drawn from the injection. of the lymphatics of the tefticle and cord. * Corpus varicofum,—Corpus Pampiniform e; Galen de Se- xjiine. Alias paraftatain varicofam, Hall.—As the old phy- fiologifts faw and obferved this wonderful tortuofity, and the tendiil-like form of the fpermatic artery, they thought that as there muft be fomething peculiar in this ftrudure, the blood was here begun to be changed into femen, and therefore they called thera the vafa preparantia.OF THE TESTIS. I91 The cremaster muscle, as we have feen in the firft volume, takes its origin from the internal oblique mufcle of the abdomen, and, paffing down over the vef- fels of the cord, is expanded on the tunica vaginalis: its ufe is to fufpend the tefticle, and prevent it from dragging upon the veflels of the chord. By conftitutional weaknefs, or the relaxation in- duced by warm climates, this mufcle becomes relaxed, and artificial fufpenfion becomes necefiary. Some- times this mufcle draws the tefticle fpafmodically to the groin ; yet I cannot allow that this is the mufcle which retrafts and corrugates thefcrotum, for the tefticle will be thus drawn up by the cremafter, without corruga- tion or contraction of the fcrotum. In fome this would appear to be a voluntary mufcle ; it poflibly accelerates the motion of the femen, or at leaft promotes its fecre- tion. Thus we find the cord of the tefticle, as it is called, to confift of the arteries, veins, and nerves; of the lym- phatics returning from the tefticle; of the cellular tiftue embracing and jfupporting all thefe veflels; and laftly, of the fibres of the cremafter mufcle, OF THE STRUCTURE OF THE TESTICLE. It is to De Graaff that we owe the knowledge of the ftruClure of the tefticle; and indeed the merit of this great anatomift has not been acknowledged with fufficient gratitude by modern anatomifts: but after the fervour of difputation has fubfided, the merit of ingenuity and of difcovery muft return to him to whom it is due. No one more highly values than I do the improve-OF THE TESTES. 192 improvements of anatomy by the Hunters and Monro i but I mufl fay, that the ftruCture of the tefticle was demonftrated by De Graaff to his fellow anatomifts of Montpelier, and his difcoveries publifhea in a manner fo perfeCt, as to leave us little to learn from more mo- dern authors. De Graaff, by exciting animals to venery, and tying the fpermatic cord, had the feminal vefiels diflended. He did not depend upon injections; by maceration and diffeCtion in this diflended flate, he unravelled all' the intricacies of their tubes. More modern anato- mifts have proved the truth of his obfervations by in- jections of mercury, and have fucceeded in a variety of ways of preparing the tefticle. Tueuli testis.—When the tunica albuginea teftis is lifted, the body of the tefticle is found to confift of innumerable very delicate white tubes; which, when difentangled from the minute cellular membrane which conneCts them, and floated in water, exhibit a mofl aftonifhing extent of convoluted veflels. By a elofer attention, however, to this ftruCture before it is thrown into confufxon by pulling out,the tubes, they appear to' be regularly laid in partitions of the cellular membrane. Thefe fepimenta are very regular in fome animals, and While they feparate the feminal tubes, they fupport and convey the blood-veflels to the fecretion of the femen. Dr. Monro has denied the formal divifions which De Graaff had engraved, but acknowledges them lefs regular, lefs ealily found, and not fo limited in their number; nor does he find them to prevent all communication betwixt the tubes of the tefticle* ThefeOF THE TESTES. *93 Thefe feminiferous tubes of Haller, or tubuli teftis of Monro, running in melhes, 15 or 20 in number, ter- minate on the back of the tefticle. Each of thefe tubes feems to be cylindrical, or of one diameter throughout their whole extent: we fee no communi- cation betwixt them ; no branches given out or going into them ; no beginning for the whole, nor for any one of them. Though we cannot prove it, yet there feems to be only one tube wonderfully convoluted and folded up in each fubdivifion of the tefticle. Rete testis.—When the tubuli come out from the body of the tefticle, they run along the back of it, and communicate by inofculations with each other, fo as to form a net-work of veflels, from which appear- ance Haller named them rete teftis. Here it often happens that the mercury flops, when it has been injected backward from the yas deferens; and it is this part which has been better defcribed and drawn, in confequence of mercurial injedlions, than it was by De Graaff; for he, as we have faid, faw this part only filled with femen. Connected with the rete teftis is the corpus high- morianum.— Where the lines of the membranous fepta, and cellular membrane of the tefticle, meet on the back, of the tefticle, and under the epididimis, they form a white line. This white line running along the tefticle, was fuppofed by Highmore to be a hollow tube; it was compared with the falivary du£t; it was thought to be a cavity leading from the body of the tefticle to the head of the epididimis, and to form the communication by which the femen flowed from the tefticle. De Graaff firft refuted this notion, and fhewed Vol. IV. O that\ ip4 OF THE TESTES. that it was not by this one great daft, but by thefe fmaller tubes forming what has been now called the tete teftis, that the femen came from the tefticle : (till it had continued a queftion, whether this white line w^s really folid, or a tube* and upon faithful ex- amination of the point it appears, that this is exprefsly as it was explained by De Graaff, viz. that it is a mere collection of the membranes of the body of the tefticle, forming a linea alba; and as the fepta are more di- ftinguifhable in fome animals, fo is the corpus high- morianum *. Vasa efferentia.—The tubes running on the back of the tefticle, and forming the rete teftis, we have un- derftood to arife from the tubuli teftis j now it is the continuation of the rete teftis which is called vafa effer- entia. The vafa efferentia are very delicate veffels which run out from the head of the tefticle, fingle at firft, but they are foon convoluted, and by thefe con- volutions they are formed into an equal number of vafcular cones, which conftitute the head or larger part of the epididimis. Thefe vafa efferentia and vafcular. cones are connected by a very delicate cellular mem- brane ; and it is a piece of very nice diffeftion to dis- play them after they are injefted with mercury. Epididimis.—The vafa efferentia, after forming thin conical convolutions, unite and form larger tubes; thefe again uniting, form one large excretory duft, the •vas deferens: but this veffel being convoluted to a wonderful degree, forms a body, which, being as it * This body galled a mere frmamntum or binding, Winflow; tic nucleus teftis. ■ ■ '/ f were.OF THE TESTES. I95 were, placed upon the tefticle, has been called epidi- dymis. TfflrPlan of the Tefticle. 7 "‘Plan of t/u Testicle. />■ /<)•>• In this reprefentation of the differed tefticle, A is the body of the tefticle diverted of its coats; B, the tubuli teftis * $ CC, the rete teftis ; D, the vafa effer- entia; E, the vafcular cones; F, the epididimis form- ed of the convolutions of the vas deferens; laftly, G is the vas deferens. In the fubftance of the tefticle there are no glands nor folicules; the arteries minutely ramify amongft the feminal tubes, and, there is reafon to believe, fecrete the femen into them. The feminal veflels in the fubftance of the tefticle, or tubuli teftis, run together upon the furface of the tefticle, and form the rete teftis. From the rete teftis are continued the vafcular cones: thefe * Where the tubuli are emerging to form the rete vafculofum, they are called the vafa refta. O 3 convolute,OP THE TESTES. I96 The convolute, and running together form the epididimis; from which the tube is continued under the name of the vas deferens. It pafles up the chord; enters by the ring into the abdomen; and then palling down into the pelvis, terminates in the veficulae feminales, in a manner prefently to be explained. It is not likely that the vis a tergo, the power of the arteries, pufhes the femen through all this length of tube, of which the epi- didimis itfelf is reckoned to befeveral feet in length, if the various convolutions were undone. Such an ac- tion on the tefticle as that of the dartos or cremafter mufcle, could give only a general ftimulus, but could not force on the femen in tubes which take fo a great a variety of directions. We are therefore left to the fup- pofition, that thefe tubes thenrfelves have a power of accelerating the fluids through them. Of the lymphatics of the teflicle w'e fhall afterwards treat; it is, however, neceflary here to remark, that Prochafka found in his injections a difficulty in making the mercury pafs the rete teftis into the teflicle. Ob- ferving at the fame time in his preparations, and in the drawings of all authors, an appearance of irregularities in this part like the valvular ftructure of lymphatics, he has been led to fuppofe that there is a provifion here for preventing the femen from being forced backward into the tefticle by the action of the cremafter mufcle; he conceives that when the cremafter mufcle draws up the tefticle to the groin, it may accelerate the femen in the epididimis, whilft this valvular ftruCture prevents the regurgitation upon the delicate veflels of the fubftance of the tefticle.PublishedJbr Longman, k Rees May g 804\,VoLIV.Tlate. 22.197 OF THE TESTES. The annexed plate reprefents the appearance which I have found in my preparations. A, the vas defe- rens by which the mercury was injected ; B, the epi- didimis; C, veffels running up the chord from the great head of the epididimis. There is a duel which fometimes arifes from the epi- didimis, and which has been found to terminate abruptly in a blind end—of this, Mr. Hunter fpeaks in the annexed note *. OF THE TESTICLE IN GENERAL. The tefticle is of an oval form, and of the fize of a pigeon’s egg: it is a little flattened on the Tides: it * “ By a fupernumerary vas deferens, I mean a fmall duft, which fometimes arifes from the epididimis, and pafi'es up the fpermatic chord along with the vas deferens, and commonly terminates in a blind end, near to which it is fometimes a little enlarged. I never found this dudt go on to the urethra, but in fome inftances, have feen it accompany the vas deferens as far as the brim of the pelvis. There is no abfolute proof that it is a fupernumerary vas defevens; but as we find the dudfs of glands in general very fubjedt to fingularities, and that there are fre- quently fupernumerary dudts, there being often two ureters to one kidney, fometimes diifindt from beginning to end, at other times both arifing from one pelvis; thefe dudls, arifing' from the epididimis, I am inclined to believe from analogy, are of a nature fimilar to the double ureters. They refemble the vas deferens, as being continuations of fome of the tubes of the epi- didimis, are convoluted where they come off from it, and after- wards become a (freight canal puffing along with it for fome way, when they aTe commonly obliterated- “ The idea of their being for the purpofe of returning the fuper- fluous femen to the circulation is certainly erroneous, from their being fo feldom met with, and fo very feldom continued furthei than the brim of the pelvis.” o 3 hang*OF THE TESTES, 198 hangs in the fcrotum by the fpermatic chord; one end of the oval, forward and high; fee plan 8th B; while the other is backwards, and drops lower, C. The fpermatic chord confifts of the artery which brings blood ; of the veins which return it; of the vas def- ferens, which carries the femen to the veficulae femi- nales at the neck of the bladder; of lymphatics, which • ?re effential to the ftructure of every part. This chord of vefiels comes down from the belly, and paffes by the ring of the abdominal mufcles ; it is about four inches in length, and is fixed into the upper and fore part of the body of the tefticle. The body of the tefticle is eafily diftinguifhed, and is the place where the fecretion is performed. It is ftriftly the body of the gland, while the part above it is only the du<ft by which its fluid is difcharged. The ancients called the tefticle dydimi, gemini, twins; they, therefore, called that part which is laid on the back of tfie tefticle epididimis, 'as added to it. To the furgeop, it is efientially neceffary to attend to the relation of ihe parts of the tefticle as felt through thq fcrotum, Eighth Plan of the Tefticle. 8' Phut of do TeJtu-ti. cI99 OF THE TESTES. In this 8th plan, fig. 1. we fee the tefticle as in its natural fituation, covered with its membranes, and appearing like one body ; while, in the fecond figure, it being reprefented freed from its outer coat, we fee the epididimis as laid upon the tefticle, and confiding of the convoluted tube. Firft, we obferve A, the body of the tefticle ; B, the beginning of the epididimis, or the large head of the epididimis *. Then we fee it laid alongft the back of the tefticle, and obferve C to be the fmall head of the epididimis 7, where the tube is refle&ed to reafcend upon the tefticle, and to form D, the vas deferens. Now, we have to obferve, that the point C, fig. 2. or fmall head of the epididimis, hangs over the tefti- cle, and points backwards to the perineum, and can be felt through the whole coats; and that the body of the tefticle A, is towards us when we examine a pa- tient.—Further, as the letters in figure 1 and 2. refer to the fame points, we have only to notice the fainter indication of the parts in fig. 1. it being inverted with the coats; and to obferve the general relation of the tefticle to the fcrotum and penis. There is one other circumftance to be obferved, viz. that the epididimis is always laid on the outer fide of the infertion of the chord into the tefticle ; from which we diftinguilh, with eafe, in a preparation, to which fide the tefticle belongs. Thus, in the an- t * Globus major, or head. f Globus minor canda. This part we often diftingulh retain- ing its hardnefs after the fubfiding of the general fwelling of hernea femoralis. From this point we can trace all the connec- tions of the other parts, nexedOF THE TESTES. 200 nexed plans, the tedicle of the left fide is reprefented, which we know from the points c, being dire&ed backward, while the epididimis is laid along the left fide of the infertion of the chord. OF THE VESICULJE SEMINALES. Behind the prodate gland, and attached to the lowed part of the urinary bladder, lie two foft bodies, which are the veficulae feminales. They appear like fimple bags when feen from without, but difle&ions fhow them to confid of a cellular drudture ; each of thefe bodies is about three fingers-breadth in length ; their backmod point is large and round, and, at the fame time, that they diverge from each other, their narrow points unite, or are contiguous to each other forwards, and enter at the back part of the bafe of the prodate gland. As we have feen, the peritoneum does not defcend far enough betwixt the bladder and return to co- ver or inved thefe veficulse; they are therefore involved in the cellular texture, and covered with drong fibres, befides being fubjeft to the compreflion of the levator ani mufcle. When the veficulae are cut into, and efpecially when they are didended, dried, and cut, they prefent a cellular appearance; but if they are carefully differed, they prefent the appear- ance of a fmall blind intedine convoluted. This cellular appearance is given by the duplication of their inner membrane, together with the didortions and curves of the canal. Their outer furface is co- 5 veredOF THE TESTES. 201 vered with a fine membrane, which, like a frenum, con- nects thefe cellular convolutions. Thefe are copioufly fupplied with arteries; their furface is covered with veins and lymphatics when thefe veflels are minutely injected, and their coat is thick and fpongy. Heifier, Winflow, and others, have defcribed fmall glands as feated in their finunfi- ties; but thefe are confidently denied, and in their place there is defcribed a pile or efflorefcence. There can be little hefitation in affirming, that thefe vehicular are themfelves glands, or, in other words, that the arteries fecrete into them a peculiar fluid. The fore- part of each of the veficuke, which we have faid fink into the back part of the proftate gland, runs under the neck of the bladder, and opens by diflintt mouths into the urethra, on the furface of the verumon- tanum. The connexion of the vas deferens with the vefi- culte, is very particular, it does not open direClly into them, but opens with them into the urethra in fuch a way, that the femen from the tefticle can pafs into the veficulse, though its direCl courfe is into the urethra *. If air is blown into the vas deferens, the veficulx will be diftended at the fame time that the air paffes into the urethra : the union of the extremities of the vas deferens and veficulee, forms a kind of feptum be- twixt them. The extremity of the vas deferens joins the duct of the veficulas where it is imbeded in the proftate * See explanation of plate III. gland;OF THE TE3TES* 102 gland '; the union of the vas deferens and dud of the veficulae is not attended with an enlargement of the dud ; on the contrary, as the dud pafles forward deep into the fubftance of the gland to arrive at the urethra, it becomes remarkably narrower until it opens in a very fmall orifice in the verumontanum* as we fee reprefented in the third plate. The dud (if we may fo call it>) of the veficulae pafles a full inch forward into the gland before it terminates in the urethra. Thefe veficulse have been in general fuppofed to be receptacles for the femen; but as this is an opinion depending on the connedion of thefe bags with the extremities of the vas deferens, and as comparative anatomy fhows many inftances of thefe veficulae being unconneded with the duds of the tefticle, there is much reafon to doubt whether they really are merely refervoirs. They have always appeared to me as ufeful in adding a fluid to the fecretion of the tefticle, which being poured together into the finus of the urethra, give a diftention, exciting and giving effed to the contradion of the ejaculator fe* minis : For uniefs there were a provifion of fluid fufiicient to diftend the finus of the urethrae, the femen could not be thrown out from the urethra. This fuppofuion is not oppofed by the fads ftated by Mr. blunter, that in many animals the veficulae and vafa deferentia open by diftind foramina into the urethra* becaufe in that cafe the fluids of thefe fecreting bags might be equally mingled with the femen in the finus of the urethra, although they do not flow from the fame tube. Verumon-203 OF THE TESTES. Verumontanum.—-The verumontanum, or caput galinaginis, is an eminence on the lower part of the urethra, where it is furrounded by the proftate gland. As we obferve in the drawing, it is larger and round towards the bladder, and (Iretches with a nar- row neck forwards. On its fummit, the two ori- fices of the feminal veffels open; and around it there are innumerable leffer foramina and mucous felicities.iRlate 3. _dtfhe end ofIartH. Vol.ir. Drawn by Chal B ell. Engraved, by Skelton.. Published for Longman i- Rees'. Mtr g^iSo.i.Vol IV. Plate TV hi bUshedJbr Longman Sc Tiers May tf 'Sl804.# / ! *%Platt V Vol. IT B. Bulb of the Urethra. PP Vasa deferenti*. C. Membranous fd of the Urethra. G The Ureter. D .Prostate Gland # Bladder covered by chcPeritmuxan.PART THE THIRD. OF THE FEMALE PARTS OF GENERATION,I- • • / > ■ .THE ANATOMY OF THE PARTS IN THE FEMALE PELVIS. TPhere is confiderable difficulty in prefenting fuch a view of the anatomy of the parts of generation in, woman, as may bear a due relation to this general fyftem of anatomy, and, at the fame time, be intelli- gible and complete. The fubjeft is in itfelf extenfive and important, fufficient to fill feveral volumes: it is much connefted with practice; and the pha-nomeiu and difeafes of the fyftem ferve greatly to illuftrate the ftrid anatomy of the parts. I cannot here be allowed to give to it its due importance, whilft yet it is a fub- je£t not eafily underftood from a ffiort abftraft. The parts of generation are divided into the exter- nal, which are thofe without the pelvis; and the inter- nal, or vifcera of the pelvis, and which lie within the bony circle of the pelvis.2o8 the external parts of generation* C H A P. I. THE EXTERNAL PARTS OF GENERATION. The external parts of generation are the mons ve- neris, labiae, clitoris, nymphae, urethra, hymen, or carur.culas myrtiformes. Upon thefe fubjeds we have no want of books and information ; for accoucheurs of the old fchool dwelt upon the defcription with par- ticular accuracy. Thefe parts were within their ken, which we cannot fay of the vifcera of the pelvis: and^ therefore, upon t^e former we (hall be more brief. In very young children thefe external parts bear a large proportion to the body, ^greater than at any fub- fequent period before the age of puberty. At puberty they are fuddenly and completely evolved, and acquire an increafe’of fize ; while, from the age of two years to twelve or thirteen, there has been little increafe. Immediately before menflruation, commences the con- nedion which occaficns, or accompanies that flux. It begins to effed the evolution of the uterine fyftem, and to fit it for its peculiar fundion. The parts become turgid and yafcular ; the fat is depofited in the furrounding cellular membrane. About the fortieth year, when the menfes difappear, this fullnefs of the private parts alfo ceafes, and the fat is reabforbed. The mons veneris, is that prominence on the fymphyus pubis, which confifts of the fkin rai^Cgd and cufhioned up by the fat inclofed in the cellular mem- brant.THE EXTERNAL PARTS OF GENERATION. 209 brane. There is of courfe a great variety in its fize. In early life it is fmall: it becomes, as we have faid, more prominent at the age of puberty ; in fat women it is of an enormous fize; and in fome warm climates a particular laxity prevails. From the hair on this part, marking the age of puberty, it is called pubis. As the lax texture admits of diftenfion with the fluid of anafarca, it is fometimes from this caufe very great- ly fwelled. The labile. Thefe are often named aim, from a flight refemblance to wings, and they are alfo called externm, magnse, or majores, from their place, and from their fuperiority in refpedt of fize over the nymphse. The labiae feeni to be the mons veneris continued downward, and laterally until meeting be- low, they form the vulva; at their lower angle, by their union, they form the fourchette, or frenum la- biorum. The ftrudture of the labiae is flmilar to that of the mons veneris; fometimes one is larger than the other. The great fenflbility of the membrane which lines the infide of the labiae, requires fome defence, and therefore the whole furface is amply fupplied with mucous folicules and glands. The labim are a protec- tion to the other foft parts, fo neceffary, that the cli- toris, or nymphae, when they projedt beyond them, are fubjedt to violent inflammation. The parts here have either fuch folds, or are of fo lax a texture, as to permit a great degree of diften- tion during the paflage of the child. But, as the labise have no mufcular power, and depend entirely on their eTadicity for reftoring them to their original fize, they commonly, after being very much dilated, remain P 3 in•2 10 THE EXTERNAL PARTS OF GENERATION. in fome degree larger and more lax. It is different with mufcular parts, as the orificiuin externum, which, by the power of its fphindler, is reftored after labour to its original fize. In man, hernia defceiids from the abdominal ring into the fcrotum ; but, in woman, when there is a rupture from the ring, (which is rare} it may fall into the labise, though, I believe, it will be feldoin found to defcend thus far. The nymph.® are named labite vel alse mincres, ^or labile internae, to diftinguifh them from the great labiae. They are like a miniature reprefentation of the great labise; they are covered with a very delicate mem- brane, and have great fenfibility. They begin im- mediately under the glans clitoridis, and feem to be only an extenfion of its preputium, formed by a folding of the membrane. Their fize varies much; They commonly flretch downward, and backward to the middle of the orifice of the vagina ; fome- times no further than to that of the orificium urethrte, and in a few inflances they extend even the length of the fourchette *. They are very vafcular, and have fomewhat of a cellular flrufture, and thus partake of a degree of turgidity, in confequence of irritation and vafcular a&ion. The moil modeft of the ufes afcribed to them is, that of dire&ing the llream of urine. As they are obliterated during the pafTage of the child’s head through the vulva, it is probable that they facili- tate the neceffary dilatation. . The nymphae are, in their natural fituation, covered and completely protected by the labia; externae. When naturally large or increafed by difeafe, or in a very * Both Rlolin and Morgagni have obfcrved the parts without the nymph®* relaxedTUE external parts OF GENERATION. 211 relaxed (late, they are deprived of this covering : they project from under the labiae, and are apt to become inflamed-, and even t0 ulcerate. The original difeafe, or tumor, is augmented, or they become perhaps hard and callous. In children they bear a very great pro- portion to the other parts-, and are more confpicuous and prominent than in the adult. Their difeafed en- largement fometimes requires to be extirpated, in which operation, as they are very vafcular, and as v/ith their growth, their blood-veffels enlarge, confi- derable hasmorrhagy may be expe&ed. A furgeon of this city, in extirpating a tumor of this kind from a young lady, thought his duty fulfilled when he had applied a piece of lint upon the furface after the opera- tion, fo that he even negle&ed to appoint an attendant. The hsemorrhagy returned, and continued fo profufe that before the furgeon arrived the lady had fainted. The clitoris is fimilar to the male penis. Like the penis, it confifls of cells for receiving blood, and in a fimilar manner, it arifes from, or takes hold of the rami of the os pubis by two crura ; — thefe unite at the fymphyfis pubis, to form the body of the clitoris, which is fufpended from the os pubis, like the penis, by a kind of ligament. The clitoris has all'o a kind of glans, over which the integuments make a fold like a preputium. In fhort, it has the fame fenfibilities, the fame power of erection with the membrum virile ; on- ly it has no urethra nor fpongy body, like that of the urethra of man. The dories of the increafe of this inftrument, even to its preeminence in fize over the male penis, are very idle, but there feems to be a peculiar predilection for P 4 them.212 THE EXTERNAL PARTS OF GENERATION. them. It is not wonderful that a clitoris of fuch mag- nitude ffiould fuggeft the idea of a hermaphrodite, or perfon partaking equally of the diftinguiffiing attributes of either fex. OF THE URETHRA. The urethra of the female is fhort, {freight, and wide; its length an inch and a half, or two inches ; its direction nearly {freight, or only {lightly bending under the os pubis; and its diameter fuch as will ad- mit a catheter the fize of a writing quill. "The confe- quences of thefe peculiarities are, that the catheter is eafdy paffed when there is no very unufual obftrudtion ; that women are not fo much expofed to the difeafe of ffone in the bladder as men, for though this is much owing to conftitutional peculiarities, yet it is ob- vious, that when a fmall ffone is formed, and pafles from the bladder, it is eafily difcharged; and, laftly, that lithotomy is a very fimple operation in woman. The opening of the urethra is in a direct line under, or behind the clitoris, and about an inch from it : It is in the middle of a flight prominence, and its vicini- ty is plentifully fupplied with mucous glands. If the relation of the orifice to the clitoris be obferved, there is, in the natural {fate of the parts, no difficulty in flip- ing the point of the catheter, on the end of the middle finger, from the clitoris, until it is catched upon the lacuna-like orifice of the urethra ; but even in this part of the operation, I have experienced great embarafT- ment, from an irregular ulcerated or cancerous furface of the parts, by which all the ufual diftinctions were loft. FromTHE EXTERNAL PARTS OF GENERATION. 2JJ From the length and hidden turns of the male ure- thra, from the double function It performs, and from its being embraced by the proftate gland, the obftruc- tions of the urine are more frequent, and the catheter lefs eafily palled, than in woman. The catheter too requires to be of a very peculiar form. The fliort and wide urethra of woman requires only a fimple and al~ molt ftreight tube: and although, accurately to adapt it to the courfe of the urethra, a confiderable curve might be given to it, yet that is not necelfary in com- mon cafes; and circumftances will occur to the accou- cheur which will preclude the poffibility of ufing fuch an inftrument. We lhall only mention here fuch cafes of obftruc- lion of urine as are in a particular manner illuflrated by the anatomy and connection of the parts. Thefe are tumors of the ovarium, tumors of the womb, polypi, diftenfion of the vagina, difplacement of the womb, as procedentia, prolapfus, retroverfio, &c.; and laftly, the child’s head in labour. The ovarium being enlarged, and failing down into the pelvis, either prefies upon the neck of the bladder* caufing obftructions, or preffing and weighing on the fundus of the bladder, itoccafionsa ftillicidium urines. Tumors of the womb, efpecially of the neck or ori- fice, as it is in contact with the urethra, very foon af- fect this organ. Thus, I have feen a cancer of the orifice of the womb, by exciting inflammation in all the furrounding parts, and by mailing them together into a tumor filling the pelvis, occafion obfiinare ob~ firu&ion of urine. Polypi attached to the orifice of the womb, and filling the vagina, produce the fame effect. In all fuch 12314 the external parts of generation* cafes, perhaps, the tumor may be pulhed up, fo as to permit the flow of urine, or the introduction of the catheter. A cafe occurred to Mr. John Bell, in which the tu- mor of the womb Comprefled the neck of the blad- der. A catheter was palled, and gave inliant relief. The midwife, after fome time came, and faid, that the catheter would not pafs. He found that he could pafs the catheter into the bladder, but no urine flowed ; and it was difcovered, that the tumor increafing backward, came to prefs upon the ureters, fo as com- pletely to obftruCl them where they enter the bladder. The woman unavoidably died ; each kidney and ure- ter was found to contain four or five ounces of urine. A flight Iketch of the parts in the female pelvis will, perhaps, better explain the connections of the neck of the bladder than any defcription, and will certainly bet- ter illuftrate the caufe of fome kinds of obftruCtion, par- ticularly that arifing from the change in the pofture of the womb. Firji Plan of the Female Pelvis.THE EXTERNAL PARTS OF GENERATION. 21$ A, the os pubis cut through.—B, the fpine and facrurn alfo cut direftly down.—C, the urinary blad- der moderately diftended, and rifing behind the pubis. —D, the urethra, very fiiort, and taking a gentle curve under the fymphyfis of the os pubis.—E, the fundus of the womb.—F, the os tineas, or orifice of the womb.—G, 'the vagina.— H, the rectum, Prolapfus, or falling down of the womb, is frequent with thofe who have born many children. By this flipping down of the body of the womb F, into the vagina G. it preffes on the neck of the bladder, or urethra. This is alfo apt to happen in the firft months of pregnancy, from a degree of difficulty which the womb in its enlargement has in rifing above the brim of the pelvis. We may obfervealfo from the place of the vagina G, that its difeafes, its fcirrhous hardening, its diftention by the menfes, will alfo comprefs the urethra and neck of the bladder. The retroverfion of the womb is the moil formid- able obftruftion to the urethra. It is produced by detention of the bladder acting on the womb in a par- ticular fituation, and is the caufe of fuppreffion of the urine. When the womb in the third or fourth month of geftation has increafed fo much as to pro- duce a degree of compreffion on the furrounding parts, and to rile above the brim, and ffioot up into the ab- domen, a diftention of the bladder is apt to throw the fundus under the projection of the facrurn. We have to obferve the connection betwixt the back and lower part of the vagina. By the diftention bladder, the vagina is ftretched, and the orifice 4 womb6i6 The external parts of generation. «. \ womb is raifed, which throws back the fundus of the womb, fo that this comes to be the fituation of the parts. Second Plan of the Female Pelvis. idfl/W of tftr Frnift/s /Wris. A, the os pubis; B, the facrum ; C, the bladder of urine much diftended, and rifing above the pubis; D, the connexion betwixt the back part of the bladder and the upper partof the vagina, and through which the rifing of this part of the bladder (in confeoxuence of its diften- tion) has drawn up the orifice of the womb, and thrown back the fundus. E, the orifice of the womb, which being raifed and turned up, no longer prefents fo as to be felt by the finger in the vagina. It will be obferved alfo, that the womb now lying acrofs the pelvis, this lower part is forced against the neck of the urethra, fo as to comprefs ir, and caufe total ob- ftrudtion of urine. F, the vagina, which is ftretched in confequence of the rifing and turning up of the ori- ficeTHE EXTERNAL PARTS OF GENERATION. 2 1 7 fice of the womb. G, the fundus of the womb en- larged and diftended by impregnation, fallen back under the promontory of the facrum, and compreffmg the rectum H. Now, when the fundus of the womb is thruft back, and the orifice raifed by the diftention and confe- quent rifing of the bladder, the natural and fimple cure is to introduce the catheter, and draw off the urine. But should this not be done at firft, then there being diftention of the bladder,and preffure on the rectum, the abdominal mufcles fympathize with thefe parts, fo that bearing-down efforts are made, and the fun- dus of the womb is forced further down into the hollow * of the facrum, while the orifice is direded upward. Were this diftention to happen at any other time than juft when the uterus is of fuch a fize, that being thrown back, it catches under the facrum, and does not rife again, no harm could follow-r—I laffc year at- tended, with Mr. Cheyne fenior, a woman affiided with obftrudion of urine, who died. I afterwards opened the body, where the womb being enlarged by difeafe, had produced much the fame effect as if it had been enlarged by pregnancy, viz. obftrudion of the urethra ; for the body of the womb had fallen into the hollow of the facrum, and had formed adhefions there with the redum, while the orifice of the womb preffed forward upon the os pubis, fo as to produce an obftrudion of urine. The parts were otherwife difeafed, but this was one caufe of the obflinacy and fatal determination of the complaint. As we treat of thofe fubjeds only as conneded with the urethra, we may obferve, that fometimes the ure- thra2l8 the external parts of generation. thra takes a courfe not round behind the os pubis Amply, nor ftraight upwards, but curved backwards, fo that the convexity of the catheter requires to be to- wards the facrum, to allow the point to pafs over the orifice of the womb, or perhaps the flexible, or the male catheter may be required. The effedl of the wedging of the child’s head in a te- dious labour, is to elongate and comprefs the urethra in a very particular manner. Many young men have felt the difficulty of introducing the catheter in this cafe. But it is a difficulty proceeding generally from igno- rance, or inattention. I have never feen a cafe in wffiich the compieffion was fo great as to prevent the palling of the catheter. But often pradlitioners forget the dire&ion which the urethra neceffiarily takes, when the child’s head has funk into the pelvis. Third Plan of the Female Parts, ■HiTHE EXTERNAL PARTS OF GENERATION. 219 Thus, when in the fecond ftage of the labour, the child’s head A, has funk into the pelvis, the urethra C, is prefl'ed betwixt it and the os pubis D. The urine confeauently collects in the bladder, and the bladder E, rifes above the brim of the pelvis, and I have found it ftretching to the fcorbiculus cor- dis. There is danger from the difrention of the blad- der, and the labour-pains ceafe. Now the young fur- geon or accoucheur, introduces the catheter in the ufual way, in the pofition F, of courfe he finds great difficulty, and gives pain in the attempts. But after inferring the point of the catheter, he mud incline its handle much tov/ards the perineum, as in the inclina- tions of the dotted lines G, fo that the point may glide up in the diredfion betwixt the child’s head and the pelvis. Grificium vaginae. This is alfo named orifici- um externum, in oppofition to the uterine orifice. I notice it under the head of the external parts, becaufe we have to fpeak of the parts which furround the ori- fice as the hymen. The orifice of the vagina of the human female is abridged by the hymen, which is a peculiar membrane, it is of a femilunar form, and fometimes furrounds the lower part of the orifice of the vagina ;—commonly it furrounds only the lower half of the circle, though it would feem to vary confiderably in fhape, place, and ftrength. It has been found furrounding the whole circle of the orifice, leaving only a fmall hole in the centre, or upper part; or it is defcribed as perforated with Idler holes, allowing the evacuation of the menftrual blood. In other cafes, it has been found a complete circle, preventing220 THE EXTERNAL PARTS OF GENERATION. preventing the evacuation of the menftrual blood.— This is a fad which I do not difpute, for I know that the perforation for the evacuation of the menftrual blood is fometimes neceflary. When I have feen the imperforated vagina in the child, it was not the hymen which clofed the orifice, but an adhefion of its fides ; yet this adhefion, if it had come to be diftended with the menftrual blood of feveral periods, would have prefented the appearance of a tenfe membrane ftretched acrols the orifice. Such a membrane as I have defcribed, will occa- fionally be feen in the female parts ; but it has fuch an appearance as may eafily be deftroyed in the prepara- tion of the parts, if the anatomiil be inattentive or carelefs. It is neither a guard, nor is its exiftence a teft of female chaftity. Often in tender children there is no fuch thing to be feen; while, on the other Jaand, it has been cut to admit of labour and delivery *. Either of thefe fads is fufficient proof of the idlS no- tions entertained concerning this membrane. It has been a favourite topic in all ages, and in all fituations. The favage, and the gentleman, make much the fame enquiries on vifiting a mufeum ; and fuch was the fubjed of Omai’s fpeculations in the mufeum of Dr. Hunter. The carunculje myrteformes—are fmall and irregular tumors at the back, or lower part of the ex- ternal orifice; they are feated rather at the fides than * I need net fay how unneceflary and improper fuch opera- tions are. All rigidity, calofities, even tumors, and undoubt- edly the hymen, will yield to 'that general relaxation of all the parts, which takes place upon the commencement of labour. exadlyTHE EXTERNAL PARTS OF GENERATION. 221 exaftly at the back part; they are generally fuppofed to be the ruins of the hymen, which being lacerated, fhrink into two or three tumors on each fide. Some have faid, that thefe exift originally joined together by a thin membrane, or delicate tifiue of finall veflels, the rupture of which caufes an effufion of blood. They feem to be fiinply corrugations of the inner membrane, which ferve as a provifion for the dilatation of the parts; and they accordingly difappear during the, palling of the child’s head. The fossa navicularis is a finus, fuppofed to be of the lhape of a boat, whence its name. It is formed betwixt the proper orifice of the vagina and the four- chette, or joining of the labite at their lower edge. It is more confpicuous in young fubjedls. From the meeting of the labias below, the Peri- neum commences: it includes that fpace from the frenum to the anus. CL Vol. IV.OF THE BLADDER OF URINE. CHAP. II. i OF THE PARTS CONTAINED WITHIN THE FEMALE PELVIS. These parts are the bladder of urine, the vagina, the womb, the ovaria. We fhall confider them under diftinft fe&ions. SECTION I. OF THE BLADDER OF URINE. As the coats of the bladder of urine in woman do not vary from thofe of the male bladder, we have under this head only to notice the peculiarities in’its re? lative fituation. It is feated behind the os pubis, and betwixt it and the womb and on its lower part it is attached to the vagina; upon the neck of the bladder, or the beginning of the urethra, there is not a body like the proftate gland ; and, as we have feen, the ure- thra is Ihort, wide, and ftraight, and fimple in its ufe. Women are not fubjeft to calculi, and the operation for the ftoae is rare in them ; for, as already obferved, when the nucleus is formed, or when a done flips down from the pelvis of the kidney, it pafles from the bladder with much greater facility than in the male parts. The urethra of itfelf has been kijown to dilate fo.OF THE BLADDER OF URINE. 22J fo, as to allow very large Hones to pafs, or it has been artificially dilated. Indeed the old operation for li- thotomy, was rudely to dilate, or rather tear, the ure- thra, and the modern operation is fimply to thrufl the gorget along the grooved flaff, fo as to lay open the fide of the urethra and neck of the bladder, by an incifion above the vagina. - Sometimes nature has effected her own relief by the Hone working from the neck of the bladder into the vagina. A woman had for a very long period fuffered great diftrefs,not only the ardor urinae,frequent defire to make urine, witlj the urine turbid and bloody, and with all the ufual fymptoms of Hone violently aggravated ; but fhe was delicate and timorous, and concealed her dif- trefs until the urine had run for fome time by the va- gina. After Are had been exhaufted by long differing, her friends infilled that fhe fhould allow an examina- tion, when a Hone was found partly in the bladder, with one of the rough ends projeding into the vagina. The opening was enlarged, and the Hone extracted. We mull, in all cafes, recoiled the connsdion of the upper part of the vagina and orifice of the womb, with the back part of the bladder. We have feen its effed in producing retroverfio uteri. We mud alfo attend to this connedion, as tending to the difplace- ment of the bladder in the procedentia uteri. The uterus-finking into the vagina, and the upper part of the vagina being at the fame time refleded into the lower part, pulls down the bladder with it, and when (the difeafe increafing) the womb covered by the va- gina comes to hang from the external parts, it has happened that the bladder has funk down and lain 2 upon224 OF THE bladder of urine. upon the fore-part of the tumor, but of courfe within the everted vagjna. '4? Plan •.. ' » ..iiriivi/j ffif tithl of Traced'atria ony'ThuhUr. Thus, by comparing this fourth plan with the firft of the female pelvis, we may judge of the nature of this dif- placement of the womb, and its effe&s on the bladder of urine. A, the os pubis; B, the facrum; C, the inteftines come into the fituation of the womb ; D, the uterus fallen down, and carrying the vagina before it; E, the vagina Hill covering the womb, but the orifice of the womb appearing, which is generally diftorted and irregular; F,the bladder, which, from its attachment to the fore-part of the vagina, has been dragged down, but is now within the vagina. In fuch emplacement of the bladder, the urethra becomes diftorted from its natural direction, there is an obftru&ion of urine, and the catheter is with great difficulty introduced. We (hall, perhaps, have to turnOF THE VAGINA, ETC. 22$ The 0.3 turn the handle of the catheter in various directions after introducing the point, and by chance get it in- troduced at laft. SECT. ir. OF THE vagina; OF ITS SHAPE, CONNECTIONS, ETC. The vagina is a tube ftretching from the external orifice to the orifice of the womb. Its orifice is bounded below by the fourchette; above by the arch of the pu- bis ; and direCtly ‘over it, or fometimes within it, is the orifice of the urethra; below, are the carunculae myrtiformes. It is furrounded by fafciculi of fibres, which are called the fphinCter mufcle. The canal of the vagina is of a conical form. At the outer orifice it is conftriCted by the fphinCter mufcle; but it is wider within, and where it receives the orifice of the womb. It may be diftended to almoft any degree, but naturally its fides, by their own elafticity, or the contraction of the furrounding fibres, or the prefiure of the furrounding parts, are in contaCt. In the natural date, the orifices of the vagina and womb, are but three or four inches diftant, often only two ; and fometimes, where there is a degree of relaxation, they are nearly in contact. In the firfh months of pregnancy, the orifice of the womb is kept down by the degree of difficulty the body of the womb has in fhooting up from the brim of the pelvis. But the gravid uterus rifing above the pelvis in the latter months, draws up the orifice of the womb, and ftretches the vagina.226 OF THE VAGINA, ETC. 2 -• The The vagina bends gently round the pubis as it were, or follows the axis of the pelvis; and as the interior of two circles cut off by the fame radii is the (horter, the vagina is longer behind than before. And thus (in this fifth ptari) the fore-part of the vagina A, is lhorter than the back part B. We may obferve from this plan alfo, that the orifice of the womb C, projects as it were into the vagina, fo that the finger touches the os tincse, and chiefly its anterior lip, with* out reaching the upper part of the vagina. The vagina takes its curve nearly in the centre of the' pelvisj it is of neceflity attached by cellular fub- ftance to the re&um and bladder. The urethra, as we have faid, opens above the orifice, and that canal is attached to the vagina in its whole length ; and the neck of the bladder is attached to the upper part. In confequence of this natural connexion, difeafe of tha Vagina fometimes throws the whole parts, the redtum, vagina, and bladder, into one fiftulous ulcer. )/ OF THE VAGINA, ETC. 227 The vagina has three coats; that is to fay, it has the inner coat, or furface, a few mufcular fibres, and arohnd it a condenfation of the furrounding cellular membrane, which may be confidered as the third coat. The internal, or villous coat, is a reflexure of the delicate covering of the external parts. It is of larger extent, or longer than the others; and is therefore tucked up into rugae, which run acrofs the vagina. They are more remarkable on the fore and back part of the vagina; they are lefs in married women, and confiderably obliterated by repeated labours. To fupply a vifcous fecretion for the defence of this furface, mucous 'glands are numeroufly, but irregu- larly fcattered over it, and they are particularly nu- merous at the orifice. The mufcular coat is not very ftrong, nor are the fibres diftinft, from which fome have fufpefled their exiftence, alleging, that there is here only condenfed cellular membrane, and that the contra&ion of the vagina is the effect of mere elafticity. I obferve fo great a profufion of venous vafcularity, that I prefume the vagina fuffers an inflation of its coats, and confe- quently contraction from an afflux of blood to it. The mufcular fibres are, however, as we have faid, gathered into fafciculi near the orifice, fo as to be diftinftly vifible. The firmnefs and ftrifture of the vagina fupport the womb ; the dilatation of the vagina, the relaxation which old age, and frequent labours produce, occa- fion the falling down of the womb. It is a difeafe al- moft peculiar to thofe who have borne many children, to the old, weak, and relaxed, and to thofe who are fubjeft to the fluor albus; every flux from the womb, 0*4 or228 OF THE VAGINA, ETC. or difcharge from the vagina, having a remarkable effeCt in relaxing the parts. This, from the nature of the parts, mull be an in- creafing difeafe ; for no looner has the womb fallen down into the vagina, than it becomes a fource of irritation, excites a bearing-down pain-like tenef- mus, an uneafy fenfation, a defire to make urine, and an obftruCtion of urine ; all which is explained by the connection of the parts. The womb lodging in the vagina dilates the orifice, and preffes long on the peri- neum, at laft it is entirely forced out, and the pro- lapfus uteri becomes the procedentia uteri: it is in truth a hernia of the womb. The third, and outer coat, as we have faid, is formed of the cellular membrane, by which it is connected with the furrounding parts; but the peritoneum comes down upon the upper part of the vagina. This is the reafon why a portion of the inteftine, when it flips down betwixt the vagina and reCtum, forms a kind of hernial tumor in the vagina, and why the water of afcites has puflied down the back of the vagina, fo as to make a bag capable ot being punCtured to draw off the water. For’Hhe greater fpace, however, the outer cellular coat of the vagina connects it with the urethra on the fore-part, ahd with the reCtum behind. From which clofe connection of parts, we fee the confequence of the delay of the child’s head in the fecond ftage of la- bour, that the head lies violently diftending, and compreffing the parts, while the. woman, exhaufted by the previous ffage, is unable to complete the deli- very. From violent inflammation, with a deficency i ofOF THE WOMB. 229 the of fecretion, there arifes a cold and flabby ftate of the parts. When the woman is delivered, the parts have Suffered fo much, that they flough off; fometimes the urethra is laid open on the fore-part, and fome- times the reftum behind. SECTION III. OF THE WOMB. Oi“ HtU! a/vr/'arts. the womb, when differed from the vagina and fur- rounding membranes, than the ufual neceffary re- ference to a bottle, a pear, or a powder-flafk. As, indeed, it ftri&ly refembles no familiar objeft that I know, we mull:, for the convenience of description, diftingui/h it into thefe parts:—The upper part, or fundus, which is that part above the going off of the Falopian tubes. The body of the uterus, which is that larger part betwixt the fundus and the narrowing below j the cervex, which is the narrow neck j and^3o of the Womb. the os ttncbj, or orifice formed of the bulging lipS* which project into the vagina, of courfe that part ovet which the inner membrane of the vagina is refleded. We diftinguifh alfo the two furfaces, for the womb is of a flattened form. The anterior furface of the body of the womb is convex, but the pofterior furface is conflderably more fo, and even during geflation it keeps this relative figure. The whole fize of the uterus is about three inches irl length, and two in breadth, but there is a very great variety in this refped, from age, the effed of preg- nancies, and other caufes. When, in its ufual fitua* tion and relations, the fundus is on a level with the brim of the pelvis, or a very little below, it. In the fetus, the womb is like the bladder, conflderably above the brim of the pelvis; but, in a few weeks the pelvis enlarging, it finks deeper, and foon aflfumes the fame fituation as in the adult.1 Falopean tubes. From the lateral obtufe angles formed betwixt the fundus and the body of the uterus* the Falopean tubes are continued. Thefe tubes may i almofl be confldered as a continuation of the bterus, did not we And them fo very diftind in their fubftance. They are about three inches in length, take a tortuous courfe, and their extremities have an unequal fringed termination, which is called the fimbriae*. Their canal is very Anall towards the titerus, but enlarges, and is patulous towards the extremities. Thefe canals are the communications by which the ovum formed in the ovarium is carried down into the womb. * Morfus diaboli. Liga-OF THE WOMB. 23I Ligaments of the uterus. To fupport the uterus from finking too deep into the pelvis, and to fteady it, and diredt it in its afcent during pregnancy, anatomifis have generally afligned as the ufe of the ligaments. But whatever good they may do in the latter operation, they are certainly unfit for the former. There are four ligaments of the uterus. The broad ligament of the uterus is formed of the peritoneum ; for this membrane palling down be- fore the rectum, and afcending again, and covering the neck, body, and fundus of the womb, defcends on the fore-part, fo as to reach the vagina before it rifes over the bladder. Thus it inverts the womb as it does the abdominal vifcera. This inverting of the womb with the peritoneum is indeed a provifion for its be- coming an abdominal vifcus, for in pregnancy it rifes out of the pelvis; and, being dirtended before the bowels, albumes in e^ery refpefl that relation to the pe- ritoneum which they have. As the- womb then is included betwixt the duplica- Cure of the peritoneum, it is this peritoneal coat, which being continued off laterally, forms the broad liga- ment of the womb. This duplicature of the perito- neum being a thin expanfion of it, has fometimes had the name of al^ vispertilionis : It is in truth like a myfentery to the womb and Falopean tubes, and ferves equally to fupport and convey the veffels to them. The womb and thertwo ligaments make a com- plete partition running acrofs the pelvis. From the fide of the uterus, a little below, and be- fore the going off of the Falopean tubes, the round ligaments arife. I confider thefe ropes as liga- ments.232 OF THE WOMB. the merits, but they are totally unlike any common liga- ment. They feem intended to give the due inclina- tion forward, and to direft the uterus in its afcent in pregnancy, and accordingly they are not merely con- denfed and unelaftic cellular membrane ; but, on the contrary, they are compofed of fibres, with an inter- mixture of blood-vefiels, fo that whilfl they keep a degree of tenfion on the uterus, they yield and grow not only in length, but in thicknefs and ftrength, as the uterus afcends in the advanced pregnancy: they pafs through the abdominal ring, and are attached to the cellular membrane of the top of the thigh. In the gravid uterus, both the broad and the round liga- ments confiderably alter their pofition, appearing to rife lower, and more forward from the womb than in the unimpregnated ftate. This is in confequence of the greater increafe of the fundus of the womb, in pro- portion to the lower part of it. OF THE CAVITY OF THE UTERUS. fi'/'TJnn. The cavity of the uterus is properly confined to the fundus and body, and takes a triangular figure. In233 OF THE WOMB. the cervex, it is more like a canal, and differs effen- tially from the proper cavity. A, the cavity of the ute- rus ; B, the continued cavity, where it is very narrow towards the cervex. C, the canal of the cervex, where it has an enlargement like a finus. The Falopean. tubes going off from the cavity of the uterus. Thefe angles of the cavity admit no more than a hog’s bridle. The third angle, towards the neck, is, of courfe, confxderably larger. The proper triangular cavity of the uterus is lined with a peculiar foft and delicate membrane ; it is very vafcular, and the veffels either open on the furface naturally, or burding out from time to time, pour out the mendrual blood. The canal of the cervex fhows a very different furface. We obferve a prominent longitudinal line on the fore and back part of it, from which oblique and tranfverfe rugae go out. The furface is firmer and callous, and lefs vafcular. Betwixt the rugae there are lacunae, which throw out a mucilaginous fluid ; and towards the orifice we'fee thefe larger, and fometimes didindt glan- dular bodies. This peculiar fhape of the cavity of the womb, and the hardnefs and fmall degree of vafcularity of the lower part, is of the mod effehtial importance. The upper part, the proper cavity of the womb, is prepared for the reception and immediate adhefion of the ovum, when it fliall have defcended through the Falopean tube; but the long callous cervex is provided, that there may be no adhefion to the lower part of the womb, and that the placenta may not form over the orifice of the womb, for if it fhould, the mod danger- ousOF THE WOMB. 234 ous kind of flooding takes place on the approach of labour from the opening of the orifice, and the tearing open of the adhesions of the placenta, before the child can be delivered. The length of the cervex, and the glandular flrudlure of the orifice is alfo of much importance in fealing up the cavity of the womb after conception, that there may be no longer communica* tion with the vagina for this purpofe, a vifcid tena- cious mucus is poured out; but, on the approach of labour, with the foftening and relaxation of all the foft parts, this adhefion and gluing up of the orifice is diflolved, and a more fluid fecretion is poured out. From the cavity of the womb the menstrual blood is difcharged at certain periods, from the time of puberty to the approach of old age, when the fyftem is no longer capable of giving nourhhment to the fetus. We fhall prefently find, that the fubferviency of menftruation merely to the preparation of the fur- face of the womb for the reception of the fetus, though it be a principal, is by no means the foie end of this periodical difcharge. It was long difputed from what fource the menflrual difcharge flowed. Some affirmed, that it mull flow from the vagina, and not from the womb, becaufe it flowed fometimes during geflation. This is a faffc which cannot be denied. I have attended a patient who menftruated during the entire period, or to the eighth month; and I have often obferved ladies to menftruate at the firfl; period after conception. On the other hand, we have every proof of the difcharge > beingOF THE WOMB. The 2 35 being from the orifice of the womb. For infiance, fome have obferved on difle&ion of the parts of wo- men dying during the flow of menfes, that blood was effufed under the delicate membrane of the cavity of the womb. The veflels there have been obferved par- ticularly turgid, or the whole furface of the proper cavity, and efpecially the fundus, fpotted with bloody eflfufions. More particular obfervation has fhewn, not only the mark of blood poured out from the inner furface, but that the whole fubftance of the womb was become thick, foft, and vafcular * ; and M. Littre affirms, that in the body of a woman who had died during menftruation, and with a conception in the Falo- pean tube, he found a layer of red coagulated blood j upon removing which, he faw a number of fmall fora- mina which admitted bridles f. But the beft and lead: equivocal proof is, that which has been repeatedly obferved in the inverfion of the womb, when the inner furface has been turned out after labour, and has remained thus inverted, and protruding from the external parts, for then the men- ftrual blood has been feen to diflil from the furface of the cavity of the uterus. OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS 0F THE WOMB. Thefe are four large arteries which fupply the fyflem of the womb, and four large veins which return the blood. * The authorities upon this fubject are Spigelius, Morgagni, M. Littre, Mouriceaux, Window, Sympfon. f Thi$ might have been an early abortion, or perhaps the decidua which it is faid is fometimes formed at the menftrual period.OF THE WOMB. 236 The The spermatic arteries come down from the aorta itfelf, or from the renal or capfular arteries. The fpermatic artery taking a waving direction, be- comes tortuous/ in a mod remarkable degree as it ap- proaches the uterus, it is diftributed to the Falopean tube, the ovarium, but chiefly to the body and fundus of the uterus, where it forms remarkable anaftamofes with the artery of the other fide. The LOWER ARTERY the UTERINE ARTERY, comes in general from the hypogaftric artery, takes alfo a ferpentine courfe, and is diftributed to the va- gina, and the lower part of the uterus, and inofculates largely with the other veflels, both in the uterus, and by particular branches on the fide of the uterus. In the firft place, it appears, that this copious fup- ply of veflels to the uterus, from four different fources, is a provifion that the womb and fecundines fliall not by any accident of pofition, or by the progrefs of la- bour, and the confequent compreflion of one or both the lower veflels, be deprived of their due fupply of blood. Again, their tortuous forms give proof of their occafional greater activity, that they admit of a peculiar and local a&ion during menftruation, and that the blood will move more languidly when the ftimulus of the womb has ceafed. It is alfo a provifion for the growth and increafe of the womb, and the fupply of nourifhment to the ovum. And that an in- creafed a&ivity in a part muff be fupplied by a more tortuous form, as well as an enlargement of the calibre of the veflels, is in a particular manner illuftrated by the change which takes place in thefe veflels during pregnancy. For they become in a much more remark- able degree tortuous and enlarged.237 OF THE WOMB. The fubftance of the uterus is faid to be fpongy and compact, which, though it is a feeming contradiction in words, does yet really convey an idea of the effects of its copious intertexture of veflels. Some have faid, (as Moriceau,) that by pregnancy the womb is diftend- ed, and grows thinner : others, that it grows thicker, as Daventer: and others again, as Smellie, aflert, that it continues of its natural thicknefs. Thefe afler- tions are noire of them perfectly correCt : for the womb is not diftended by the growth or the foetus and membranes, but grows with them. Again, that the fubftance of the womb grows in a remarkable de- gree, is true, but (till when diftended by the waters in t'ne laft months of pregnancy, its walls are thinner than in the unimpregnated ftate. Thus, v/hen it has been cut in the living body, upon the approach of labour, in the Caefarean feftion, I have obferved it, not more than a quarter of an inch in thicknefs, even at the part to which the placenta adhered. When I have difleCted the womb after a tedious labour, the waters d'ifcharged, but the head wedged in the pelvis, I have found it confiderably thicker. And, laftly, in the full contraction of the womb, after expelling the foetus and placenta, (for example, in rupture of the womb, where the child and placenta had been forced amongft the bowels, and the woman foon after died,) I found the walls of the womb about three quarters of an inch in thicknefs. Vol. IVr ROF THE WOMB. 238 SECTION IV. OF THE OVARIA. The ovaria, are two oval bodies, which are fuf- pended in the broad ligament behind, and a little be- low the Falopean tubes: while they have an oval figure, they are fomewhat flattened. By cutting out the ovaria, the animal lofes the power of conceiving, and defire is extinguilhed; they, therefore, beftow wlfat is effential to generation upon the part of the fe- male. In vague fpeculations on the fubjed of genera- tion, they were fuppofed to prepare a female femen! but more particular examination demonftrates, that they confift of veflicles, which are ova; but how far incomplete, or in what effential circumftance requiring the approach of the male, is not determined. When we hold the fedion of the ovarium betwixt the eye and the light, we fee a great many pellucid veflicles; and if we examine the ovariuih of an ani- mal killed in full health, and particularly in the fea- fon, we fhall obferve thefe ova to be in all varieties of flates of preparation for impregnation. Some fmall and pellucid, and yet only difcernable in the thick outer coat, by having a degree of greater tranfpa- rency ; others, which have taken a flight tinge of bloody colour from veffels ftriking into them ; and if the fedion be made after a minute injedion, the vefli- cles will be feen coloured in the proportion of their maturity $ fome without a fpeck of colour j others tinged;OF THE WOMB. 239 OF R 2 tinged; one or two loaded with injection; and fome vafcular, and particularly prominent. In very young girls, the fubftance of the ovarium is whitilh, and very foft; ,the furrounding membrane is thick ; and the round corpufcles fcarcely dilcernable; and no irregularities, nor any of thofe bodies called corpora lutea, are to be feen on the furface. But as the girl advances in years, the little vehicles begin1 to appear, and when about ten years of age, or juft be- fore menftruation, the ovarium is full of ova of vari- ous ftzes, and fome of them more matured, and form- ing an eminence upon the furface. In the adult wo- man, the fubftance of the ovarium, which appeared as an uniform homogeneous mafs in the foetus, is be- come a cellular and vafcular bed, giving nourifhment to thofe numerous veffels or ova. Before impregna- tion can take place, there muft be a certain ftate of preparation of the ovaria, without which the approach of the male effeds no change in the uterine fyftem. The lower animals having their feafons, and thefe fea- fons being a ftate of preparation for the male, impreg- nation follows the copulation with much certainty: but, in woman, fuch a periodical revolution in their fyftem, and inftindive defires, would but ill accord with that fuperiorty in attributes of the mind, which diftinguifti us in the fcale of beings. But women alfo. fuffer fuch an occaftonal excitement in the uterine fyftem, though unaccompanied with defires, which preferves the womb in a ftate of preparation for the re- ception of the ovum, and the ovaria in a ftate of pre- paration for impregnation. This is the effed of men- ftruation.24® OP THE WOMB. OF PUBERTY. Authors have long, with many expreflions of fur- prize, laboured to affign a caufe, or frame a theory for the explanation of thofe changes which we obferve in woman at the age of puberty : and generally, in their theories, they have connected with thefe changes the monthly and periodical difcharges of blood from the uterus, w-hich commences with puberty. Thefe theories have been founded in general, on principles re- mote from the laws of a living fyftem. At this period of puberty, the whole frame is expanded into the full- nefs of feminine beauty; the breads rapidly increafe, and are matured ; the parts of generation are enlarged; the hair of the pubis grows, and the rnenfes flow. In explanation of thefe changes, theoritical conje£lure3 after this model have been entertained. fcc About this time the growth of the body begins confiderably to di- minifh, and the blood finding eafy admittance into the completed vifcera is prepared in greater quantity, the appetite being now very fharp in both fexes, a plethora confequently follows. In the male it vents itfelf fre- quently by the nofe, from the exhaling velfels of the pituitary membrane being dilated, &c.; and now the femen firfl begins to be fecreted, and the beard to grow. But, in the female, the fame plethora finds a more eafy vent downwards, being that way dire&ed, partly by the weight of the blood itfelf to the uterine veffels, now much enlarged, of a foft fleecy fabric, feated in a loofe hollow part, with a great deal of cel- lular fabric interfperfed, which is very yielding and fuccnlent.OF THE WOMB. 241 lieve R 3 fucculent, as we obferve in the womb: for thefe caufes, the veflels being eafily dillenfible, the blood finds a more eafy paflage through the very foft fleecy exhaling veflels which open into the cavity of the ute- rus, as being there lefs refilled than in its return by the veins, or in taking a courfe through any other part; becaufe, in females, we obferve the arteries of the head are both fmaller, in proportion, and of a more firm re- filling texture. The return of the fame is, therefore, more flow, both becaufe the flexures of the arteries, from the increafed afflux of the blood, become more ferpentine and fit for retarding the blood’s motion *, and likewife, becaufe it now returns with difficulty through the veins. The blood is therefore firll col- iedted in the veflels of the uterus; next, it is accumu- lated in the arteries of the loins, and the aorta itfelf, which urging on a new torrent of blood, augments the force fo far as to difcharge the red blood into the ferous veflels, which at firll tranfmit an increafed quantity of warm mucus, afterwards a redilh coloured ferum, and by buffering a greater dillenfion, they at tail emit the red blood itfelf. The fame greater im- pulfe of blood determined to the genitals, drives out the hitherto latent hairs, increafes the bulk of the cli- toris, dilates the cavernous plexus of the vagina, and whets the female appetite to venery, &c.” We cannot give implicit trull to luch fpeculation, we cannot believe in this plethora, produced by the diminifhed growth of the limbs; neither can we be- * I have fhown that the tortuous arteries always form a pro- vision for the occafional iucreafe of the adion and acceleration of the blood. I o242 OF THE WOMB. lieve that congeftion and plenitude is produced in the female fyftem, from the deficiency of perfpiration, from their more lax and weaker folids compared with man, from their indolent and fedentary life : for fads are in direCt contradiction. The growth and completed function of parts at this particular age, is not to be ex- plained by any theory fo partially applicable; during almoft every period of life, there are fimilar changes taking place in fome one part of the body. Parts lie dormant, and are ftationary in their growth, which at a particular and {fated age of the animal, enlarge and develope themfelves by a new and invigorated action. Obferve how different the proportions of the fetus are from thofe of the adult. We fee nature careful to perfedt certain parts, as the head and liver, at an early period. We fee during early childhood how the parts ihoot out, and evolve in due proportion. We fee parts which were large in the fetus iofe their prepon- derance : we fee others, which ferved fome purpofe in the fetal fyftem, gradually (hrink and difappear, be- caufe they have no longer the ftimulus to aCtion in the circle of connections which take place in the adult fyftem. We find other parts, as the teeth, for ex- ample, lying long within the jaw, inftead of proceed- ing with a gradual and continual enlargement, fud- denly rifing at certain ftated periods from their embryo Jftate, and enlarging and pufhing up through the gums, when it becomes, fit that the child fhould take more folid food than the mother’s milk. So the fecond fet of teeth, in a more particular manner, lie quite ftationary in their growth within their little facs, yet quickly, at ftated periods, they increafe, the ena- mel243 OF THE WOMB, mel is formed, and they rife above the gum. There is an infinite number of fuch changes depending upon the fame laws of the ceconomy, and not different from thofe which controul the growth, and direct the fhape of parts. They depend upon certain laws of the con- ftitution, which give an excitement to certain parts, at {fated periods, and which no theory partially applica- ble will explain. There is a feries in which the parts of an animal body are matured, and a fucceflion in which the functions are brought to maturity : and in the female conditution, there are laws determining an aftion upon the womb and breads, and all parts fub- fervient to conception and the nourifliment of a foetus; at that period when the woman is arrived at the age fit to take upon her the part of a mother. OF MENSTRUATION. ■ Under this head, I (hall confine myfelf to fuch a general view of the fubjecl, as is neceffarily connected, with the peculiar functions we are now endeavouring to comprehend. Menflruation is a date of preparation for concep- tion. When, therefore, the menfes flow at the na- tural periods, and in due quantity, it is a fign that the woman may conceive, and that her fyftem is fit for the fupport and nourifhment of a child. It is a general affeftion of the fydem, which has a tendency to relieve itfelf by a topical aftion, by the excited ac- tion of the uterine fydem ; and this excitement of the uterine fydem is the end which nature is accom- R 4 plilhing.244 OF THE WOMB. plilhing. To explain this, I may be allowed to take a fhort preliminary view : each particular organ or vif- cus, whilft it has its connections with the general fyf- tem, is, in truth, a fyftem within itfelf, having its pe- culiar functions, fympathies, and even vafcular ac- tion, in a certain degree, independently. \Yere not this, in fome meafure the cafe, we fliould fee no local difeafe or topical aCtion ; and no vafcular aCtion could be for a moment ftationary and confined to one, part. Ihe body would, indeed, be then only one great hy- draulic machine. But while the feveral parts have the property of being excited feparately to an accelerated action, they are actuated by remote fympathies, and by thefe fympathies and relations, is the whole fyftem in a great meafure fupported. Before menftruation commences, there is a preced- ing indifpofition, and fymptoms indicating a conftitu- tional affeftion. And thefe complaints are ufually more fevere in the firfl, than in the fubfequent periods. The general revolution in the fyftem begins to accu- mulate its aCtion towards the womb, and thofe fymp- toms ufually accompanying uterine irritation, fiiow how far it is affeCted, and in a little time the menfes flow. Now, I conceive, the flow of the menftrual blood, to be not the end which nature is here labour- ing to accomplilh, but the means of allaying the ex- cited ftate of the uterine fyftem after the object is ac- complilhed. It is not the difcharge of a few ounces of blood which relieves the fyftem ; for drawing blood limply will not do it; but it is the excited aCtion of the uterine fyftem which relieves the general diftrefs, and that topical aCtion has full relief in the menftruail difcharge*Of THE WOMB. '-45 difeharge. General and topical plethora are terms which have been of great fervice in explaining this periodical change in the female fyftem, but the ftate of mere fullnefs, has little effeft either on the conftitu- tionai or topical change. Even in the exhaufled and debilated ftate of che fyftem, when menftruation ceafes from the want of energy and power in the vafcular fyftem, ftill there remain the fame laws governing the fympathies, and relations of the feveral parts; and although they are feebly and imperfe&ly excited, they give rife to accumulated diftrefs at the period in which the menfes fhould flow. There is more general diftrefs at puberty, and when the menfes firft flow; but afterwards, when the periodical aflion and difeharge is eftablifhed, there is little or no previous indifpofition. With regard to vicarious haemorrhagy from remote parts of the body, fome, whofe opinion I greatly value, do not confider them as deviations of the menfes. At all events, from what I have feen of fuch haemorr- bagies (tumors, for example, difeharging blood at the menftrual periods), I would obferve, that there is an excitement, throbing, and diftenfion, previous to the difeharge of blood, which confirms me in the notion of the neceflity of a counter excitement and aftion, as well as the difeharge of blood, being necef- fary to make a derivation from the uterine vefiels. It is by difleftion alone that we can form an eftablifhed opinion regarding the final ufe of the periodical return pf the menfes. By difle&ion we come to the knowledge of the jpoft effential fads. In the firft place it is found, that theOF THE WOMB. 246 the ovaria, and their veflels, partaking of the general ex- citement of the fpermatic arteries, are enlarged, full of blood, and with every fign of increafed action. We find alfo, that the ovaria are matured and brought to pubulate, and almoft to ftart from their inverting membranes. Again, when we attend to the womb, we find, that thefe are marks of its whole vafcular fyftem being roufed to aflion. It has become laxer in its texture, and there is a change fimilar to what takes place in the firft ftage of pregnancy, but lefs in degree. The veflels on the inner furface of the womb have been influenced by an aftion fimilar to inflammation, and it is aflerted, that even the decidua is fometimes formed. Thus, while the ovaria are ripened to that' degree of maturity, which prepares them for impreg- nation, the furface of the womb, and its whole vafcu- lar fyftem, is preferved in a ftate of preparation for the adhefion of the ovum, when it (hall have defcended through the Falopean tube. I conclude that in con- fidering this fubjeft of menftruation, the mere circum- ftance of the difcharge of blood has been too much at- tended to, while thefe other more efiential circum- ftances have been negle&ed. It is not eafy to determine, fays Haller, either in this, or in any other fpontaneous haemorrhagy, from what kind of veflels the blood flows. From the cir- cumftance of the hsemorrhoidal difcharge, which cer- tainly is from veins, and from the lochia, which is ge- nerally fuppofed to be a difcharge from the venous finufes of the womb after delivery, we have the argu- ment of analogy, that in menftruation alfo it is a ve- nous difcharge. This opinion is further confirmed xo from247 OF THE WOMB. from ftagnant blood being found in the uterine veins of women dying during the flow of the menfes, and orifices being obferved larger than could well be fup- pofed to be the extremities of arteries. I would fay, that it is little probable that fpontane- ous htemorrhagy proceeds from the rupture of the extreme arteries, becaufe it is the activity of the ar- teries which caufes the haemorrhagy ; and becaufe this activity is the exertion of a mufcular force, and the exertion of a mufcular fibre never is fuch as to tear the fibre itfelf. On the other hand, we obferve that it is the necefiary confequence of an increafe of the adion of arteries, that the correfponding veins dilate, and feem to fuffer a force of diftenfion proportioned to their increafed activity. We mull not forget that many are of opinion, that the menftrual blood flows from the exhaling arteries. This opinion muff reft upon argument, and not fads, unlefs the affertion of Raauw be taken as proof, that he could diftin- guifh their mouths; or that of Mebomius, who faid he introduced bridles into them. That anatomifts have introduced bridles into pores, or foramina, it would be ungracious to doubt, but that thefe were the orifices of exhaling arteries, is difficult to believe. I rather imagine, that there is a provifion for this eva- cuation in pores, or foramina, in the extreme veins on the vafcular inner furface of the womb. From the confideration of the caufe of menftruation, as I have conceived it, from the fymptoms which proceed and accompany it, and from the effed attri- butable to the menftrual adion on the uterine fyftem, we cannot confider it as a mere evacuation of blood, but24<& OF THE WOMB. but rather as of the nature of a critical difcharge re- lieving the fymptoms which preceded it. With re- gard to the opinion of its being a fecretion, we mull firll know accurately what is meant by the term. If thofe who fuppofe the menllrual blood a fecretion mean only, that the blood is occafionally changed by the a£tion of the veffels of the womb. I fhould will- ingly acquiefce in their opinion, for even during the bleeding from the arm by the lancet, or from a com- mon wound, the blood is altered in the fpace of the few minutes during which it flows; and before the final Hopping of a common haemorrhagy, there is a change in the properties of theeff'ufed blood. When there is an unufual fource of irritation in the womb, added to the natural and periodical excite- ment of the parts, the menfes become more profufe, they lad for a longer period, the time of their inter- miflion is fhortened, and, in the end, from feme dif- eafes of the womb, there is a perpetual oozing of blood, which debilitates the woman, and dellroys her conftitution, or there is fudden and profufe difcharge with coagula, unlike the ufual evacuation, OF THE CHANGE PRODUCED BY THE UNION QF THE SEXES. In confidering thofe changes produced on the ova- ria and womb by impregnation, we mull have recourfe to analogy in the firlt inllance. By attending to the changes produced in vegetables, and the lower animals, we may be enabled to comprehend JTome of the changes249 OF THE WOMB. changes In the female organs confequent upon con- ception, and which we might nototherwife be enabled to underhand. We fee that vegetables propagate their branches in svery refpeCt like the parent trunk. We fee in the autumn the bud lodged in the axilla of the leaf, and obferve it pafs through the winter in a kind of dormant hate ; but when it is influenced by the returning heat of the fpring, it fhoots out to full maturity. This growth is a natural power of propagation, and increafe, marked by no very peculiar circumftance, yet bearing a ftrong analogy to the production of the feed. In the formation of the fruit of the fame tree, we fee a more complicated provifion for the propagation of the plant. We find that although the feed appears to be formed by the natural growth of the part like the bud, yet before it becomes prolific, and capable of growing, and arriving at maturity, it mud be in- fluenced by circumftances fimilar to the union of the fexes of animals; that its power of reproduction de- pends upon the reciprocal aCtion betwixt the parts of the fame plant, or by the approximation of male and female plants. Between the formation, maturity, and impregnation of the feed of plants, and thofe of the ova of animals, there is a clofe analogy. The feed is formed and ma- tured while attached to the parent plant; but the veflels of the plant having completed this operation, Ihrink from their connections with the feed, leaving it with its little fyftem of veflels complete, and with a kind of imperfeCt life, which may be confidered as analogous to a dormant (late. This imperfeCt life, or perhaps250 OF THE WOMB. perhaps a.ftate merely capable of being excited Into life and motion, continues for the winter feafon, or for a longer period. The flower of plants folicits the fluids to the feed, as the influence of the leaf cherilhes the bud in the axilla. The pulp of the fruit is probably a provifion of the fame kind, or when it has fallen, to lay the foundation, by its decay, of a foil fuited to the tender plant. In the feed itfelf, we have much to admire. We find it incafed in a ftrong hulk, or fhell, which is in general provided with a porous part ready to imbibe the moifture of the ground. In the nut within the outer fhell, there is a foft fpongy fubftance, which, re- ceiving the moifture, fwells and burfts up the lhell, and relieves the feed. The kernel of the nut is then like a common feed, it has begun to vegetate, and thefe are the parts which form the fyftem of its ceco- nomy. The principal part of the feed confifts of al- buminous matter for the fupply of the nourilhment to the embryo plant, fo as to prolong its fhoots, and to fend down its roots into the earth. The little embryo plant lies complete in all its parts, betwixt the lobes of albuminous matter, in a ftate of torpor, or in which the operation of the living principle is fufpended. From the embryo plant there extends into the albumi- nous matter of the feed veflels, or tubes, inactive, but ready on the fupply of heat and moifture, to abforb the nutritious matter of the albumen, and minifter to the increafe of the embryo plant. Now the root of the little plant lprouts from the feed, and has a tendency to ftrike into the ground, andOF THE WOMB. 25 I and the bud rifes to the furface towards the light, and the influence of the atmofphere. We fee in this inftance, that the operation of the fyftem of tubes of the embryo plant in the albumen was merely fufpended, that upon the feed being put into the ground, the heat and moifture promote the germination, by driving the nutritious matter of the albuments to the embryo plant. In the firft ftage of this change, the matter abforbed by the veflels of the albumen fupply that nourifliment, which afterwards is conveyed from the root ftriking into the earth, and from the leaves abforbing from the atmofphere. And when the roots have ftruck into the earth, and the firft leaves rife upon the furface, the lobes of the al- bumen are exhaufted and fade, or rife up in form of leaves, Hill cherifhing the tender plant. When we come accurately to examine the fituation of the embryo in oviparous animals, we fhall find the fame provifion for the nourifliment and growth of the young animals, independent of external circumftances, nourifliment prepared for it until it fhall be enabled to gain flrength to feed itfelf. The manner in which an egg is formed is this: The yolk, with its delicate membranes, are formed in the ovarium of the hen. The ovarium is placed on the back-bone, innumerable yolks are feen gradually formed, and fucceffively increafing in fize. When they are matured, they are of the full fize we fee them in the perfect egg ; they are furrounded with a delicate web of membranes, extremely vafcular, which burfts when they are mature and impregnated, and then they fall into, or are grafped by the infundibulum, or what anfwersTHE WOMB. anfwers to the Falopean tubes in woman and Quad- rupeds. While yet in the egg-bed, the cicatricula, or embryo, is feen to be included in its membranes, upon the furface, or in the membrane of the yolk ; as the yolk, and the imbibed cicatricula, paflfes through the uterus, the yolk, in a moll curious way, has the ad- dition of the other part of the egg. The uterus of a bird is not like that of other quadrupeds or viviparous animals, fimply for the reception of the ovum ; but it is long and convoluted like the inteftines. And the yolk, as it drops into the upper part of it, collects as it paflfes alongft the uterus, the white of the egg, which is a fecretion from it. As it proceeds downwards, it receives the membranes of the white, and before it is excluded, it is coated with the fhell to preferve it from injury when it fhall be dropt from the hen. In the fully formed and incubated egg this is the fituation of the parts. Under the fhell is a membrane which in- verts the whole parts, but leaves a fpace containing air in the greater end betwixt it and the fhell. Within this membrane the glarry white of the egg is contained, and within the white or albuminous matter is the yolk. Under the membrane of the yolk, there is a fmall fpot of a lighter yellow than the yolk. This, upon exami* nation is found to be a vehicle, and within it we fee a leflfer circle formed by an inner vehicle: this is cica* tricula, and within this the rudiments of the chick are contained. We may obferve, that the yolk is fpeci- fically lighter than the white; again, it is fixed, towards the two extremities of the egg to the albumen, or white, by the chalaza. Thefe are like twifted cords, which arife from the yolk, and expand in the white, 12 fo253 CF THE WOMB. fo that they take a pretty firm hold on its tenacious fubfiance. Thefe chalaza are not fixed to the yolk in its axis, but to the fide, fo that the buoyancy of the yolk keeps it revolving as the egg is turned, fo as al- ways to prefent the cicatricula to the upper part of the egg, in whatever way it is placed ; confequently it is always contiguous to the body of the hen, fo as imme- diately to receive the influence of the maternal heat. By incubation, the principle of life in the chick and its membranes is roufed, and the firft perceptible change appears in little bloody dreaks, which, running together, form a circle of veflels, and, which, are feen to terminate in the umbilicus of the chick. This vafcular circle, the mod beautiful appearance of any in the ceconomy of animals, ought to be parti- cularly explained. In Mr. Hunter’s book treating of the blood, there is a plate which reprefents the embryo of the chick in the incubated egg, at three different ftages of its formation, beginning with the earlied vi- fible appearance of didinct organization.—The pre- parations from which thefe figures are taken, form part of a complete feries contained in Mr. Hunter’s colle&ion of comparative anatomy.—They are meant to illuftrate two pofitions laid down in his work, viz. that the blood is formed before the veflels, and when, coagulated, the veflels appear to rife ; that when new veflels are produced in a part they are not always elon- gations from the original ones, but veffels newly formed, which afterwards open a communication with the original. This to me feems an idea founded on a very limited view of the ftate of the parts. We mud recollect that Vol. IV. S this-54 OF THE WOMfi. this is not the formation of new parts or new veflels* The embryo is in that ftate of which I have endeavoured to convey an idea, by the term dormant; poffefling that degree of life which is to be renewed by incuba- tion, or artificial heat, but which will laft a great length of time, and, like the germ in plants, be brought to vegitate only in particular circumftances. The traCt of thefe veflels is laid in the original conforma- tion of the embryo and furrounding membranes, they are now merely called into a&ion, and we fee only the efifeCt of this a&ion. We fee red blood formed ; we know that the rednefs of the blood is derived from the membranes, and matter which furround the embryo, and that it is conveyed to the chick or embryo. Before we allow ourfelves to conjecture what is the firft mo- tion in the circle of a&ions which now take place, we muff confider whether it be not more likely that the firft aCtion of thefe veffels is in abforption ; that is, an abforption in the extremities of thefe veffels, or is there firft, an aCtion of the heart of the chick ?—We are left to this queftion. Is it probable that a change (hall take place in the fluids which {hall ftimulate the veffels ? or fhall the heat of incubation ftimulate the veffels to aCt upon the contained fluids ? or, as feems moft pro- bable, does the incubation, at the fame time, produce a change in the fluids, and ftimulate the veflels to ac- tion ? To explain what I fhould rather conceive to take place, I {hall defcribe the probable feries of aClions. In common feed, the fmall germ of the plant has its veflels palling out into the lobes of the albumen to ab- forb the food, upon the exiftence of the peculiar cir- cumftancesCP THE -WOMB, 255 Cumftances neceflary to its being ftimulated to adtivity and growth. We have to obferve, that where the tiilt Was attached in its hufk to the tree, it has left a porous part; by this cribriform kind of plate the moif- ture of the earth enters;—that dry fcurfy fubftance which we obferve on the infide of the lhell, fwells with the moifture which alfo penetrates the albumen or kerilel—thd moifture forming combination with the alfiumen prepares it for abforption; the veflels are, at the fame time excited, abfofb, and thus nutritious fluids are conveyed to the germ—the nut fplits by the fwelling of the parts, and the corculum or bud fprouts up.— We find then, that in this inftance the grain, or nut, is brought into adtion by the fluids abforbed, forming new combinations with the albumen or kernel, and the adtive exertion of the living powers, beginning by an operation in the fluids. In the fame manner, I conceive, that the incuba- tion of the egg caufes an adtion firft in the fluids, not in the folids (for thefe are folids according to the ftridteft fignifiedtion of the term ; and ftrong mem- branes, as a little vinegar will Ihow, when poured up- on the albuminous fubftance of the egg). A change takes place in the fluids, there are new arrangements fuiting them for abforption, by thofe circles of veflels Which are laid on the original formation of the mem- brane. The fluids act as a ftimulus to thofe veflels, whofe alternate adtion and relaxation never ceafe un- til the termination of life. I conceive this explanation, which. I have offered, to be more confonant with the; great principles of phyfiology, and an extenfive ana- logy of fimilar adtions in the ceconomy, than that ex- S 2 planatiop,.256 OF THE WOMB. planation. of Mr. Hunter, which fuppofes the fpecks feen at the Tides of the veflels, to be fpots of coa- gulated blood, deftined afterwards to become blood vefTels. For, I am apt to conceive, the red blood to be formed only after feveral rounds of the circulation, and to depend upon a more perfect aflimulation than that firft: excited : and that Mr. Hunter is all along in this miftake, that he is fuppofing thefe veflels to be newly formed, which are laid in the conftitution of the membranes furrounding the embryo, and which are now only called into adion, and only become ap- parent when they convey red blood. In the fyftem of the egg there are other circum- ftances worthy of notice: as the chick grows by the ab- ' forption of the white, ©r albumen, the new combina- tions reduce to a lefler bulk the whole mafs, which is within the (hell, and now we perceive the ufe of the air-cell, which enlarging, fills up this fpace. When the chick has efcaped from the fhell, the yolk of the egg is not exhaufted, but it is found to be received into the belly of the chicken, and to have a conduit leading into the duodenum, by which it is poured into the in- teftinal canal. It is for fome time a fource of fupply to the young animal until its ftrength is' equal to the digeftion of its appropriate food. And in this re- fped it is analogous to the fuckling of viviparous animals. Let us new obferve what analogy exifts betwixt the generation, or rather the birth and nourifnment of the embryo of the viviparous animal, and thofe of the ovi- parous* As to the precife effed which the approach of the male has upon the ovarium of the female, whetherOF THE WOMB. 257 whether by this union of the fexes, there is an adtual addition to the ovum, or only an influence exerted on the parts already there, by the prefence of the male femen, it feems almod needlefs to hope for an abfo- lute decifion. The refemblance of the offspring to both parents, would influence us at once to conclude, that there mud be a union of the parts from both fexes. But when we confider how much the peculiarities of indi - vidual animals depend upon certain peculiarities of ac- tion ; how the conditutional predifpofitions mud de- pend on the fame peculiarities in the adtion of parts, fince the dodtrine of abforption teaches us, that of ac- tual fubdance nothing is permanent, but all fuffers an inceffant revolution and change, of which nothing can remain but certain peculiarities of adtion ; we may then come to allow, that the male femen merely in- fluences the date of the parts already formed, and does not bedow an actual fubdance. In the fpeculations on the fubjedt of generation, fadts and obfervations have been fo very rarely attended to, that thofe which have been offered feem to have had a preponderance much beyond their real value. Thus the microfcopica! demonffration of animalcule fwimming in the femen of the male, has given birth to an idea that they .were homunculi, which being in- troduced into the proper nidus of the female grew up to man’s edate. Though, where all is conjecture, and, perhaps, as no better explanation is to be offered, it may feem improper fo diredtly to contradidt any theory, dill I mud fay, that this is, in my mind, the height of abfurdity. To fuppofe an animal fecreted alongd S 3 withOF THE WOMB. with the feminal fluid from the tefticle of the male (and which, in all probability, is the production of flagnation and putridity), to fwim and be nourifhed in the male femen, and yet to hold that on being intro- duced into the ‘ovaria, it changes from an aCtive ani- mal into an impalpable gelatinous-like mafs,and, after a feries of changes, grows at lafl to the maturity of a human being, is altogether beyond my compre- henfion. The experiments made by the ingenious Dr. Heigh- ton, throw confiderable light upon thefe delufive fpe- culations regarding the impregnation of the female. He found ry experiments on rabbits, that upon cutting the Falopean tubes, forty-eight hours after the coitus, the impregnation was equally obftructed as when he had cut them previous to admitting the male ; it would appear that in thefe animals impregnation is by no means the inftantaneous effeCt of the union of the male and female, but that it requires at lead: fifty hours; for, when Dr. Heighten cut the Falopean tubes at that period, it did not prevent impregnation. Dr. Heigh- ton proves, that the generative procefs is not an in- ftantaneous effect, as we fhould very naturally fuppofe, but an operation requiring time. That the femen does not reach the ovaria during, or immediately after the coitus, is fufficiently evident; and it is ftill more fo, that the ovum is impregnated while in the ovari- um, and not upon its defeent into the womb, which is proved from the foetus fometimes remaining in the ovarium, or tubes, and growing to maturity. Dr. fieighton fuppofes the femen only to affeCl the vagina and uterus, and that a confent of parts, or fympathy, kOF THE WOMB. 259 is communicated along the tubes and ovary to the ovum; and that neither the femen, nor the aura fe- minalis reaches the ovaria. When we look abroad for analogies, however, and find the femen of fome animals, as filhes, merely thrown out upon the already evacuated fpawn, we cannot readily acquiefce in this opinion of the mere fympathy of the female parts call- ing the young animal into life. Leaving this fubjedt, we have to obferve, that pre- vious to impregnation there is a ripenefs and promin- ence of fome of the ova, that by coition the Falopean tubes do not inftantly grafp, impregnate, and caufe the burfting of the ovum from the ovarium ; but there is an adlion commenced which gradually brings about this change. Whiht the ovary is thus affected, the tubes are preparing for their action of embracing the ovum, there is an increafed turgefcence in their veffels, and an enlargement and fwelling of the fim- briated extremity. When thus prepared, it approaches tfie ovarium, grafps, and receives the ovum, and by a periftaltic motion, probably very flow and gradual, the ovum is conveyed into the cavity of the uterus. OF THE OVUM, AND ITS CONNECTIONS WITH THE UTE- RUS IN THE EARLY MONTHS OF PREGNANCY. The ovum, when it has defcended into the uterus, and is perfect in its ftrudture, is a foft oval mafs, fringed with veffels, and compofed of membranes con- taining the early foetus. When opened, or differed, it prefents three cavities, or we obferve the foetus to be furrounded with three diftindt membranes. The S 4 1. Deci-OF THE WOMB. s6o i. Decidua, or tunica filamentofa, falfe chorian, or fpongy chorian. 2. The chorian. 3. The amnios. Of thefe coats, the outer one is formed by the womh, the o'hers confiitute the ovu;n as it has defcended from the ovarium. We fhall, in the firfl place, attend to the original membranes and general conftitution of the ovum, and then to the deciduous covering which i| receives in the womb. Plan of the Membranes. V • ■ p. 2fiC. . Thm of /hr Mrml’miirs. A, The Fcetus. B, The Amnios. C, The Chorian, D, The Veficula Alba. Amnion 'The amnion is the veficle which imme- diately involves the fcetus. It is a very thin and pel- lucid membrane in the early ftage of pregnancy, but it acquires confiderable thicknefs and flrength in the latter months. The amnion contains a thin watery fluid in which the foetus is fufpended. In the abortion of the early months, we find the quantity of this fluid very great in proportion to the whole ovum, and this forms a de- fence to the delicate, and almofl; gpllatinous fiibftance ofOF THE WOMB. 261 of the foetus, while it is a provifion alfo for the regu- lar prefentation of the head of the child, for now the foetus being fufpended in this fluid, and hanging by the umbilicus, and the head and upper part of the body greatly preponderating, it takes that pofition with the head prefenting to the orifice of the womb which is necefiary to natural and fafe labour, the fcetus being prevented from fhifting in the latter months by the clofler embracing of the child by the uterus. Chorian. The chorian is the fecond involving membrane of the foetus; on the infide it is frnooth, and betwixt it and the amnion a gelatinous fluid is in- terpofed. In the early months it is much flronger than the amnios, but in the advanced ftage it has come in contaft with the amnios, no fluid being betwixt them. And in proportion as the amnios gains ftrength to be of eflential fervice in dilating the orifice of the womb during labour, the chorion has relatively be- come very thin and weak. On the outfide the cho- rion is fhaggy and vafcular, and conflitutes thofe minute extremities of the vafcular fyftem of the ovum, which attach to the furface of the womb, or rather to the flocculent membrane which it throws out. The umbilical cord. When we can firfl de- cern the foetus, it is merely like an opaque oval body of the fize offa common fly, and clofely attached to the amnion ; but, by degrees, it recedes from it, and then we perceive that it is attached by the umbilical pord, which confifts of the trunk of the veffels going put from the foetus, and which diflributed upon the phorion receive the fupplies from the maternal Now262 O? THE WOMB. Now we perceive that the fcetal fyftem which de- fcends from the ovarium, is not merely a foetus or embryo, but that this embryo, befides a fyftem of veffels within its own body, is furrounded completely with membranes, and that from the vafcular fyftem of the embryo, there go out veffels, which being minutely diftributed to the outer veficle, or membrane, and actuated by the fame heart which circulates the blood through it, our little corporal fyftem prepares for imbibing the due nourifhment from the uterus. Vesicula alba. The veficula alba, or umbilicalis, is a little veficle which lies betwixt the chorion and amnion; it contains a white fluid; it is conne&ed with the naval or cord, by an artery and vein. Very little has been offered as explanatory of its ufe, it has been confidered as fimilar to the alantois of quadru- peds, and having a connection with the urachus; but It has no communication with the bladder, and foon difappears. Whereas, if it had been for receiving the fecretion of urine, it would have been prepared for the more mature ftate of the fqgtus. I conceive it not to be improbable, that it is a provifion of fupply for the embryo, previous to its perfect attach- ment to the uterine fyftem, and during its defcent into the womb, perhaps fimilar to the albumen of ovipa- rous animals, but which, after the perfeCt eftablifh- ment of the connection betwixt the foetal and maternal fyftem, fhrinks and difappears, as being no longer jieceffary. O?OF THE WOMB. 263 In this plan we ihall be able to obferve the relations and inflections of the uterine membranes or decidua, as OF THE ADDITIONAL MEMBRANES WHICH THE OVUM RECEIVES FROM THE UTERUS. While the ovum is taking the changes confequent upon impregnation, the womb partaking of the gene* ral fympathy which prevails over the whole uterine fyftem, takes a change adopting it for its reception. The fir ft appearance of aCtion is marked by a greater activity of the veflels, a fwelling and foftnefs of its fubftance. While on the inner furface there is an exudation which being converted into a fpongy mem- brane, is peculiarly adapted for the reception and ad- hefion of the ragged and vafcular furface of the ovum.55 4 OP THE WOMB. as feen and defcribed by Dr. Hunter, and of their cor- rectnefs, my obfervations in difleftion leave no doubt in my mind. AA, The uterus in out-line; B, the amnion with the foetus ; C, the chorion. Now it is ©bferved, upon a careful examination of an abortion of the early months, that befides the chorion and amnion, there is a fpongy membrane of two diftindt lamina which inverts the chorion. The outermoft of thefe is found to furround the whole ovum, even in- verting that part which has become the placenta by the accumulation of veflels. This outer membrane then may be reprefented by the line DD. It is repre- fented as adhering to the furface of the womb, as it murt do in fadl. We obferve again, that it is per- forated where the Falopean tube enters the womb, that at this part it is not formed; fo that, according to Dr. Hunter, and the preparations which I poflfefs, thefe tubes open into its infide. Upon diffecting up the outer lamina of the decidua, we find that where the placenta commences, it is re- fiedled over the furface of the ovum and the fhaggy chorion of the ovum, fo as to be reprefented by the letters EE. We fhall now underftand the diftindtion betwixt the Decidua Vera DD, and the Decidua Rejlexa EE. It would appear that this membrane is either com- pletely formed, or at leaft the fluid which is to form it, is throwm out previous to thedefeent of the ovum ; indeed, fo intimate is the fympathy betwixt the whole uterine fyftem, that this membrane is formed in thofe cafes where the ovum does not defeend, but conflitutes the extra uterine conception. Dr.OF THE WOMB, Dr. Hunter fuppofed, that the ovum paffed into the cavity of the uterus whilfl the coagulable lymph was pouring out by the arteries of the uterus, and that it was thus immerfed in, and furrounded by the decidua, for he could not conceive that it could gain admif- fion betwixt the lamina of the membrane already formed. I fhonld conceive that the ovum A, upon its de- fcent gets intangled behind the deciduous membrane B, by which means the ovum is not left loofe :n the cavity of the womb, but is foon attached and fur- rounded with a membrane, or vafcular web, from which it can immediately draw fupplies, and by this provifion alfo its adhefion to the fuperior part of the uterus is infured. But as the fam| action of the ute- rus continues, and, as we mull naturally fuppofe, be rather occafioned by the prefence of the ovum in its cavity, the furface cf the uterus at A continues to throw out a coagulable matter which furrounds that part of the ovum, fo that this will immediately become its fituation.OF TFiB WOMfi.- 266 A, The Decidua Vera, formed before the defcenf of the ovum. B, the Decidua Rejlexa, formed by the ovum getting behind it, and pufhing it down. C, the efllorefcence which continued to be poured out, fur- rounds the upper part of the ovum, and which, from its more immediate fupply from the uterus, will ire time form the foie fupport of the fcetus, viz. the ute- rine portion of the placenta. Of the placenta, and of the nutrition of THE FCETUS. When the ovum firft defcends into the uterus, the fleecy furface of the chorion eftablilhes a univerfal ad- hefion, but no fooner is the attachment of the ovum eftablilhed, than the veffels of the fcetus which arer univerfally diftributed over its furface, begin to accu- mulate to that point from which the more abundant fupply is obtained. Thus, from the univerfal adhe-- flon the veffels of the fcetus are maffed and accu- mulated together, fo as to form a thick cake or pla- centa.OF THE WOMB. 267 centa. This takes place upon the fame principle that the roots of a plant ffretch towards the foil beft fuited to it, or the branches and leaves of a plant grow and fpread towards the light. The placenta is deftined to adhere to the fundus of the wornb, and there we obferve the accumulation of the large veffels of the womb, it being equidiflant from the feveral fources of blood ; and to this point is the tendency of the veffels of the chorion fo great, that we fometimes fee the veffels of the cord running three or four inches upon the membranes before they reach the placenta, evidently (hewing that the point to which the umbili- cal cord had been originally attached, was not oppofite to the more vafcular part of the womb ; but that the veffels had to ftretch and elongate fome way from the infertion before they accumulate in form of the pla- centa, towards that part of the uterus where there was the greater vafcularity. But the formation of the placenta on the fundus of the womb is not conifant, although there are many provifions for enfuring attachment there. But when it does form low in the womb, or on the orifice itfelf, we then perceive the reafon of nature’s folicitous care in preventing it; for it occafions the mod dangerous floodings from the placenta prefenting on the approach of labour, and its connexions being neceffarily torn up previous to the delivery of the child. The placenta of the advanced ftage of geflation is a mafs formed partly by the accumulations of the veffels of the foetus (the trunk of which is the umbilical cord), and partly of a vafcular and cellular portion formed268 O? THE VfOMB. formed by the uterus. On the furface attached to the womb, the placenta exhibits deep and irregular fiffiires which divide it into lobes; but on the inner furface is fmooth from the inverting membranes, but raifed into irregularities by the numerous and tortuous ramifications of the umbilical veflels. When rudely torn or cut into, it appears to be a fpongy fubftance, formed in a great part of an irregular tiflue of veflels. In the human fubjett we find, that the maternal part of the placenta is thrown off with the other fecun- dines, and does not feparate from the foetal part of it. While, in other viviparous animals, the monkey ex- cepted, the filamentous extremities of the foetal veflels feparate from the glandular mafs formed by the mater- nal veflels of the uterus. * The placentary veflels of the foetus never touch the furface of the womb, but communicate with the ma- ternal fyftem through the veflels of the womb, which pierce the deciduous membrane. Still the queftion of the precife manner in which the veflels of the foetus communicate with thofe of the mother remains unde- termined. I conceive that in the early ftage the deci- duous membrane being thrown out by the a&ion of the uterine veflels, thofe of the chorion ftretch into it, and abforb the nourilhment. The decidua is avafcular mem- brane, but it has, at the fame time, a peculiar fpongy texture. This fpongy, or reticulated ftrudture of la- mina of the decidua ceafes where the placenta is af- fixed. When we carefully difleQ: up the decidua to the margin of the placenta, it is found to be be more 9 rigidOF THE WOMB. 269 frigid, white, firm, and thick *. When we examine the outfide of an entire ovum, we obferve that at the place covering the placenta, it is corrugated and full of irregular eminences like the convolu- tions of the brain, and amongfl thofe irregularities many fmall convoluted arteries may be difcerned, with fpots of extravafation and the flat mouths of veins. Upon diffefting up this maternal part -of the placenta, we find it to form the firmed part of it; and by the difference of colour, as w'ell as by the pof- fibility of tearing it up, or diffefting from the mafs of veflels of the chorion, w’e recognize it as the decidua. This union, however, betwixt the maternal and foetal parts of the placenta is intimate, and it is impoflible to determine by diffeftion with the knife, whether there be modulations betwixt the maternal and foetal vefTels, or whether the nourifhment of the foetus is by abforption, nor can we didinguifh in the fird months the cellular intertexture which may be obferved in the placenta of the full time, as defcribed by Mr. Hunter. In explanation of this part of our fubjeft, I have purpofely diffefted, and made drawings of the ovum in feveral dages. This point of anatomy relating to the decidua, is particularly explained in Plates VI. and VII. to which I refer the reader. Of the liquor amnii, as conducing to the NOURISHMENT OF THE FCETUS. Some phifiologids obferving the drift analogy, which exids between the funftion of the placenta and * I ("peak after diffe&ing the ovum of the third month. Vol. IV. T theOF THE WOMB. 2^0 the lungs of breathing animals have conceived, that the liquor amnii is the fource of nourilbment, and that it is taken into the domach. I believe they have conceived fome analogy to exid betwixt the albumen of the egg and the liquor amnii, which in their minds has drengthened this opinion. But there is here no analogy ; we have feen, that the erubrio of oviparous animals being formed with the yolk in the egg-bed or ovarium, defcends info the uterus, and there receives the addition of the albumen or white. On the other hand, we find that the ovum of viviparous animals is formed in the ovarium ; and that the liquor amnii be- ing within the membranes of the ovum, mud be the production of the foetal fydem. Further, when the ovum has defcended into the womb, and grown to fome maturity, we fee that there is no connection by vedels betwixt the foetus and mother but through the placenta ; that the liquor amnii is within the in- volving membranes of the foetus, and that confe- quently it mud be thrown out by the vedels of the foetal fydem. Thus, to fuppofe the foetus to be fed by the liquor amnii, would be to fuppofe it to draw refources from its own fydem, and that the vedels poured out a fluid, which is afterwards to be taken into the flomach *. But without adducing arguments, it is fufikient to fay, that fcetufes have been brought forth, mondrous in their conformation, and without mouths yet well grown. ,* A greater abfurdity than that of which a foreign author is guilty cannot be imagined, becaafe the liquor amnii, or fome fluid, is found in the trachia, he fuppofes that the fcetus refpires, and receives oxigination from the liquor amnii. Of27I' OF THE WOMB. Of the placenta as the source of nourish- ment to the fcetus. When we confider thp mere fpeck of the embrio in the fir ft weeks, we fee that it can have no other fource of nouriihment than through the extreme veffels of the chorion, connected with the Ihort umbilical cord ; and we may be convinced alfo, that in its progrefs to maturity, when the general connexions of the chorion ceafe, and the placenta is formed, the foie fupply is through its veffels. Regard- ing the manner of the communication betwixt the vef- iels of the mother and child there are many opinions. The fimpleft explanation, but the furtheft from the truth is, that the arteries of the womb are continued into the veins-of the foetal portion of the placenta. That on the other hand, the arteries of the foetal fyftem are continued into, or inofculate with the veins of the womb; and that thus, the blood of the mother’s fyftem is carried by ,dired inofculation. A little in- vestigation will convince us, that this is a very unlikely conjedure. . We fee the embrio furrounded with its veffels, and forming a complete fyflem within itfelf, defcend into the womb. We fee that the attachment betwixt the furface of the ovum and the womb, de- pends on a reciprocal adion betwixt them ; and when the foetus is feeble, or difeafed, or when it dies, the uterus immediately feparates from it, as from a dead part, and there is an abortion. Again, it is not na- tural to fuppofe, that the circulating fluids of the adult are calculated for the circulation in the embrio, or that the blood of the adult is fit for the circulation of the foetus. When we injed the veffels of the foetus, we find the veins and arteries of the umbilical cord to in- T 2 ofculate( 272 OF THE WOMB. ©fculate freely with each other, and the fluid paffes from the arteries to the veins with little extravasations or efcape of fluid, and fuch only as may be fuppofed to pafs from torn veflels. Again, the bleeding of the child does not draw from the maternal fyftem; for ex- ample, when the accoucheur has to perform the 6pera- tion of embrioulcia, and when the arteries of the brain pour out their blood, the woman does not fuffer, nor is there any danger of hremorrhagy from the cord after the delivery of the child. Again, what does the ana- logy of other animals fliow us ? We may obferve, in the firfl: place, that probably on account of the pecu- liar form of the womb of woman, and in thefe cir- cumftances to guard her from danger of hsemorrhagy during delivery, it is necefiary that the placenta fhould be accumulated towards the fundus of the womb- Now, to allow lefs danger of the feparation of the fe- cundines from the womb, and confequent abortion, there follows a neceflity for the human placenta being attached in a particular manner’; and in place of the maternal part of the placenta remaining with the womb, as in other animals, the whole mafs feparates on the delivery of the child. The neceflity for this firmer attachment of the human placenta, caufes the connection betwixt the foetal and the maternal por- tions to be very intimate, and the manner of the vafcular connection by no means eaflly demonflrated. In other animals, however, for example in thofe which have the fmall and numerous placenta, or coly- lidones, the foetal and maternal portions of the pla- centa feparate eaflly ; the maternal part being a pro- minent vafcular bed, which is a part of the womb, / andOF THE WOMB. 27$ and is not deciduous. Here we find, that the glandu- lar-like portion which belongs to the womb may be minutely inje&ed, and no particle of colour pafs into the foetal part; and again injeflion fhows the foetal portion to be merely compofed of the fleecy extremi- ties of veflels, which, however, minutely injefted, do not fhow any inofculations with the maternal veflels; in fhort, here the connection betwixt the extremities of the two fyftems is fo yery loofe, and the filaments fo minute, and almoft like an impalpable mucus, that we can imagine no other kind of connection than that the extremities of the umbilical veflels take up by ab- forption the nutritious matter neceffary for the fyfleni of the child, and that this is fecreted by the veflels of the womb. Inveftigation in every department of natural hiflory fliows a Similarity, and a Simplicity in the operations of nature. Comparative anatomy may be brought with much advantage in illuftration of the very obfcure laws which guide the funflions of the parts of genera- tion. When we turn our attention to the egg, we find, in the firfl: place, that the vafcular fyflem is com- plete within itfelf, and requires no permanent connec- tion with the maternal fyflem to invigorate its action. We find that the artery which pafles out of the umbi- lical cord of the chick, and which is diftributed to the membranes of the white, pulfates ftrongly, and carries venous coloured blood. We find the returning vein carrying arterial coloured blood. We find then that thefe veflels mufl have a double function, they imbibe the nourifhment from the, whice, and convey it to the increafe of the chick; and they at the fame time, T 3 performOF THE WOMB. <174 perform an aft ion fimilar to that of the pulmonary veflels of the adult, feeing that they carry out dark- coloured blood, and convey it back to the chick, of a bright vermilion colour. Now, I do not conceive, that this change upon the blood is performed by the communication with the atmofphere through the ihell, for I fee no diftindfion in the colour of the veflels, which are contiguous to the membrane of the fnell, and thofe which are removed from it by tire expand- ing of the air-cell. Further we find, that there is an intermediate kind of generation in fifhes which are oviparous, but retain the egg within their womb, until the fetus is matured ; here no communication with the ail or w'ater can be allowed. Since we fee that the chick in ovo is capable of mi- niftering in every eflential particular to its own increafe, wherefore fhould w?e fuppofe that the fetus of vivipa- rous animals has any other more particular connexion , with the womb of the mother ?—-The difference is in my mind this fimply; the ovum of the oviparous animals defending through the convoluted and inteftinal-like womb of the hen, accumulates a quantity of matter around it, which ferves every purpofe of nutrition when the embrio ffiall be finally feparated from the maternal fyftem ; but in the viviparous animals the ovum defending into the womb remains there, and has an inceflant fupply of nutritious fluid, fecreted from the veflels of the womb, as it is required by the appetency of the fetal fyftem. As in the egg, the membranes furrounding the white have the fame effedt upon the blood, which is afterwards produced by the lungs; fo has the placenta of viviparous animals the double275 OF THE WOMB. double funflion of fupplying nourifhment, and the oxiginarion of their blood. The umbilical vein carries back pure arterial blood, and the common opinion is, that the blood of the foetus coming in contadl with the blood of the maternal fyflem, receives the principle from it, which bellows this quantity of colour, with other necellary qualities, of which this of colour is but the fign to our obfervation. It is not neceffary to ✓ this change on the foetal blood, that it fhould come in immediate contacl with the maternal blood, for it is poffible, nay probable, that the matter thrown out by the maternal velfels, whilll it is nutritious, has alfo in it, in a condenfed, and not a gafeous form, that which is elfentiai to the change of the blood of the foetus from the modena colour to bright vermilion. OF THE EXTRA UTERINE CONCEPTION. We find fome curious fa£ts relating to the a£lion and fympathy amongfl the parts of generation, proved by the cafes of extra uterine conception. When na- ture, baulked and interrupted in her ufual courfe of operation, {hows unufual refources, it would appear, that the ovum, after impregnation, has in fome cafes remained attached to its original feat in the ovarium, perhaps owing to fome want of due fympathy and fynchronous action of the Falopean tubes, which fhould grafp and receive the ovum. In other inftances the ovum has been received into the Falopean tubes, but either from a want of fufficient dilatation and ac- tion, in them, they have not been able to proper it fo. T 4 ward,) / 27^ OF THE WOMB, ward, or the ovum taking upon it that aCtion which is deftined to form its connections with the uterus, ad- heres, and is enlarged in the tube, fo that it cannot be conveyed down into the womb. But the molt curious inftance of the extra uterine conception is, where after impregnation the ovum has dropt from the ovarium, and lies in the cavity of the ab- domen among!! the vifcera. Here alfo the veifels of the fleecy chorion fpread, and attach themfelves to the furface of the vifcera. Thefe inltances of deviation from the natural aCtion of the parts after conception prove to us, I think, that from the moment of impregnation there is a principle of life and activity in the fyftem of veifels of the ovum, and that at a Hated period this aCtion becomes fuch, that the efflorefcent veifels of the furface of the ovum, attach themfelves to whatever vafcular furface they are in contadt with. Further, it feems to Ihew, that in the womb, and in the deciduous membrane which it prepares for the reception of the ovum, there is nothing very particularly necelfary, and that any vafcular fur- face will take upon it the fame changes, and being excited probably to fome peculiarity of aCtion, will ip every thing elfential fupply the growth and nourilhment qf the ovum and foetus. It Ihows us how far the aClion previous and confe- quent to impregnation is a univerfal and fympathetic excitement of the uterine fyltem $ that the decidua i$ formed in the cavity of the womb, although the ovum does not defcend. This points out to us hovy careful nature is, that there lhall be a reciprocal aCtion in the ovum and womb, fo as to enfure the adhefion of the ovum,OI' THE WOMB. 277 ovum, and the ready fupply of a proper nidus for it, when it Ihall have defcended into the cavity of the womb. It informs us, that the uterus is a fpongy and vafcular bed, having peculiar fympathies which actuate its veffels, and a form of veffels adapted to quick acceleration of a&ion fo as to grow, enlarge, and fupply the fecundities with nourifhment. It is not, however, in the mere adhefion and fupply afforded to the foetus, that the peculiar adaptation of the womb for the reception of the foetus is fhown, but in the provinon for the delivery of the child at a regu- lar and hated period. For, it is a curious fact, that in the cafe of extra-uterine foetus, on the expiration of the nine months, the uterus takes upon it that adtion, and that excitement of its mufcularity which is dehined to expel the foetus. Accordingly we find, that at the ufual time of utero-geflation, there are pains excited, and hooding, with the difeharge of the decidua from the womb, although it contains no foetus. Nay, further it would appear from the refult of feveral cafes, that at the expiration of the natural term of utero-gehation, the foetus indicates that it is governed by preferibed laws, which render a change neceffary, and fhow that its fyhem is no longer fit to be fupplied through the placentary veffels, and as in the fituation of extra-uterine foetus this change cannot take place, it dies and becomes with its fecundines, as a load of foreign or dead matter in the belly. This event is generally followed by the death of the mo- ther, though fometimes an abfeefs has opened and dif- spharged the foetus, or after much fuffering, the bones have278 OF THE WOMB. have been difcharged by ftool, with much matter and colliquative diarrhaea. Of the womb at the full period of gestation AND OF DELIVERY. To complete this view of the female parts of gene- ration, it remains only to fpeak of the date of the parts at the full term of nine months, and to obferve the procefs of a natural delivery. The rapid increafe of fize of the pregnant womb in the (hort fpace of nine months, is perhaps the moll furprifmg phenomenon of the whole animal oeconomy, it fhows the power of a peculiar excitement in calling into aflion a partial and local fyftem of vefiels. This flate of pregnancy is the furthell from a date of diden- tion, in fo much, that it is obferved the wombs feels peculiarly foft on impregnation, and as if but imper- fectly filled by the ovum. This foft date is a fign of vafcular a&ion. We may often obferve in the dif- cudion of a tumor, that before any change takes place, it fwells and becomes foft, and this even where the tu- mor is about to be abforbed. The fundus of the uterus is the part fird enlarged ; and afterwards the inferior parts ; at length the cervix is obliterated, and the uterus, which was originally pyriform, becomes nearly oval, and the didention, as we have remarked, is greated on the back part of the womb. In the fird months the uterus finks lower in the pelvis, they fay, from its weight, but the fpecific weight of the uterus is not increafed, and on that ac- count it Ihouid not fink deeper; it is, perhaps, rather fromOF THE WOMB. 279 from its enlargement, and the difficulty with which the fundus makes it way among the vifcera in the brim of the pelvis. Having defcended condderably, the os tincse projects further into the vagina, but the fundus continuing to enlarge, at lad emerges from the circle of the bones, and then from the conical form of the ute- rus, it fometimes rifes fuddenly out of the pelvis; now the vagina will be found elongated, and the os tines: removed from the point of the finger. Now the ligaments of the womb direCt it forward, and it rifes clofe upon the abdominal paries, and before the bowels ; in the fird pregnancy it rifes almod direCtly up ; in fubfequent pregnancies from the greater relaxa- tion of the integuments and the abdominal mufcles, it is allowed to fall more forward; about the fourth month of pregnancy, the womb may be felt in the abdomen, and ridng out of the pelvis; in the fifth month the fundus is about half-way betwixt the pubes and navel; in the feventh, it is about half-way betwixt the navel and fcrobiculus cordis; in the eighth, it is at its highed, and towards the end of the ninth month, it rather fubfides. Finally, immediately before labour it de- feends remarkably, and fhifts into the middle of the pelvis, fo as fairly to prefent the orifice of the womb. The mufcularity of the uterus is increafing from the fird moment of pregnancy. As the uterus increafes in thicknefs and is didended, the mufcular fibres become more didindi, and their power of contraction greater ; but what is very particular is the great mufcular efforts made by the womb during labour by thefe fibres, which have not till that time felt the dimulus to action, or been allowed to contract. WhenOF THE WOMB. £§0 When the period for the approach of labour is ar- rived, the nature of that vifcid fecretion which feals up the orifice of the womb is altered, it lofes its vifci- dity, and all the parts are relaxed and prepared for the tranfmifiion of the head; even tho.fe rigidities, ftrictures, or callofities of whatever kind, which would feem to promife an abfolute obftruction to the paffage of the child, yield and relax previous to labour. The aCtion of the womb is at firft feeble, as might be expected, and accoucheurs have marked thefe fiages of a natural labour. lft. The womb has fuffered no diminution of its fize; the membranes are entire, and, of courfe, the contractions of the womb are feeble, becaufe before it is allowed to make fome contraction its efforts are not ftrong. This is a provifion for the firft ftage of labour being flow; by and bye the orifice dilating, the membranes with the waters are felt protruding. The membranes and water is as a foft conical cufhion, gently dilating the paffage ; and in this ftage there ihould be no officious interference. While the mem- branes are entire, both the mother and child are in perfect fafety. 2d. The orifice continuing to dilate, and the efforts of the womb increafing, the membranes burft, and the head of the child preffes on the orifice; then the womb is allowed to contract: this contraction is a ftimulus to greater efforts, and, in a few pains, the head defcends in to the cavity of the pelvis. The orb lice is completely retraced, and there is no longer a mark of divifion betwixt the womb and the vagina; they are as one canal. If, however, the membranes mOF THE WOMB. 28l are burfl too early, the labour is not accelerated, but retarded. The orifice is not dilated by the foft and elaftic membranes ; the head of the child preffes broad on the orifice, which becomes rigid, and perhaps in- flamed, its dilatation is flow, and the labour tedious. Though, from the form of the bones, and particularly by the retiring of the facrum, there is a provifion and guard for the foft parts of the mother againft compref- fion by the head ; yet nature intends this ftage to be fhort, for it is the period of danger. There is now obflruCtion of urine and faeces, and the veffels of the parts fuffer compreflion. 3d. Now the head of the child prefenting at the ori- fice of the vagina, forms a third flage ; it is the flage of mofl exquifite fuffering : the head is pufhed for- ward during every pain, and recedes again in the ab- fence of pain. An interval of red precedes this flage, at lad the pains return, and the hard head of the child coming to prefs on the orifice, and the womb coming in clofe contaft with the body of the child, the pains are redoubled in flrength. The face of the woman, perhaps, before pale and flat, becomes red and turgid, the eyes gleam, and are inflamed ; the pulfe becomes quick and hard ; and from the exquifite expectation of relief, fhe looks wildly round on her attendants, lofmg all reafon and recollection; fhe is frantic, with the mod agonizing pain to which the human frame is fubjeCt Now the occiput of the child begins to project with its wrinkled fcalp through the external parts, but nature intends that this alfo fhouid dilate flowly ; the ligaments and os coxigis redd feveral throes, and direCt the head2^2 OF THE WOMS. head forward under the pubes; at Iaft, after feveraf pains, it rifes- with a half turn, and is delivered. 4th. The fourth Huge, is the delivery of the body and Ihoulders; and, 5th. The fifth ftage, is the delivery of the placenta. The placenta is expelled by a continuation of the fame action of the womb, and is part of the natural pro- cefs. Firlt a flow of the liquor arnnii and blood fol- lows the child, and the woman lies for a time ex- haufted; the extreme pain and excitement having ceafed. The womb generally recovers its powers in about twenty minutes, and then there is grinding pain in the belly, and the placenta is detached and expelled, or is pulhed down into the vagina. Thus we have fketched, in the molt fuperficial manner, the progrefs of a natural labour, with a view merely to explain the general notion of the entire fundtion of the womb, not with that minutenefs which the accoucheur would look for in treating the fubjedl. Let us, for an inftant, attend to the flate of the um- bilical cord, and the final contradlion of the womb. I have already obferved, that while the membranes are unbroken, the ehild is fafe, that is to fay, there is no danger of the comprefiion of the umbilical cord 5 but when the membranes have burft, and the waters are evacuated, the cord mull fuft'er a degree of com- preflion betwixt the uterus and the child, and there is danger that the cord may fall down before the head, until the head has defcended into the brim j as the uterus contradts, and as it were follows the child, the circulation through the placenta rauft become fome- *7 whatOF THE WOMB, 2S3 what difficult, and the ufuai funfrion correfponding with that of the adult lungs impaired. This mull be much more the cafe when the child is delivered, and the placenta remains in the contradled womb. No doubt nature intends by this, that the funflion of the placenta fhall be gradually diminiffied, and not fud- denly cut off, that the child may feel occafion for the play of the mufcles of refpiration, and that the func- tion of the lungs may, by degrees, take place of the function of the placenta. When the child is firfh de- livered, the cord.pulfates ftrongly ; when the child cries, it becomes feeble; at firft, the child has ffrong and irregular catches of the refpiratory mufcles, but by and bye it breathes more regularly, and cries lufti- ly. At firft the breathing only renders the pulfation of the cord feeble, but prefently the pulfation becomes fo weak, that it is felt only near the umbilicus, and it ceafes when the regular and interrupted breathing is eftabliffied, and the crying ceafes. The delivery of the child and placenta is followed by a confiderable efflux of blood. But after this there continues a difcharge from the uterus, which is called the lochia. It is like the exudation of blood from an extenfive wound, in as much as by the con- tr icbion of the veffels from which it flows, it becomes ferous in a few days, and ceafes gradually like a haemorrhagy. This open difcharge from the womb after delivery, is no doubt a provifion againft the confequence which would naturaijy refult from the fudden and perfect ob- flruftion, and the affivity of the uterine veffels confer quern on delivery. By this difcharge the activity of the284 OF THE MAMMA. the veflels is gradually relieved, and as it is a dif* charge taking place of the aCtive ftate of the womb, fo the fecretion of the milk in the breads, and the giving of fuck, caufes the difcharge to ceafe much fooner than it would do if the mother were not the nurfe. OF THE MAMMJE. ■ In man and in children of both fexes, there is no mark of the bread, but the little cutaneous papilla, or nipple. Thefe tubercles are, however, furrounded by a zone or difk, of a brownidr red colour, the areola. At puberty, as we have faid, the bread of the female becomes protuberant, and thofe parts which were in miniature, and without action, quickly grow into a firm glandular mafs (fpeaking anatomically). The fhape, rotundity and firmnefs of the gland depends much upon the adipofe membrane furrounding and interfeCting the glandular body. The glandular part itfelf is divided into little mafles, which again confid of fmall granules. Thefe feveral fubdivifions of the glands are clofely furrounded by membranes. The lactiferous duCts are gathered together from thefe lefler granules, and unite into 12 or 15 in num- ber of a very confiderable dze, as they converge to- wards the root of the nipple. When milk is fecreted, the glands are large, a remarkable didention of the duCts alfo takes place, for they are then become tor* tuous and varicofe, and ferve as refervoirs of the milk. Where they pafs through the nipple, however, *6 theyOF THE MAMMAE, 285 they are again contracted, and open by fmall pores upon its furface. The nipple is of a fpongy and elaftic nature, and differs a diftenfion or ere&ion. When the nipple is contracted, the lactiferous duCts mud be comprefled, and perhaps coiled together, fo that the milk cannot flow, or flows with difficulty : but by the fucking of the child, the nipple is diftended, and the duCts elongated, fo that the milk flows. There open upon the areola feveral fuperficial or cutaneous glands, which pour out a difcharge to defend it and the nipple from excoriation. Of the arteries, veins, or lymphatics of the mamma?, we need not treat here. We have many occafions to obferve the confent and fympathy which exilt betwixt the womb and the breads. On the firit period of the menfes, the breads are much diftended. In many women at each return of the difcharge, a degree of fwelling and fhooting pain is felt in them, and the enlargement and fhoot- ing pain in the bread:, with the darker colour of the areola, is marked as the moft prominent fign cf preg- nancy : with the ceaftng of menftruadon, which is the ceffation of the ufual excitement and aCtion of the womb, the breads contraCt and are abforbed. Any unufual ftimulus or irritation in the womb, as poly- pus, or cancers, or even prolapfus and excoriation, will affeCt the breads, caufing them to enlarge and be- come painful. When the function of the parts ceafe, they fee'm to feel the want of the ufual excitement to correCt aCtion, and are apt to fail into difeafe ; fo it is at leaf! with the womb and mammae, for at that period of life, when » Vol.IV. U the2 86 OF THE MAMM.S. the fyftem is no longer able to fupport and give nou- rilhment to a child, and thefe parts fubfide from their ufual a&ion, they often become fchirrous or cance- rous, and terminate exiftence by a tedious, painful, and loathfome difeafe. i \ /PART THE FOURTH. OF THE LTMPHATIC AND LACTEAL STSTEMS OF VESSELS. U 2I - i. i o i t_ JL . f w. > ■J * :\V to : /: /-ij t'. ;■ ■-1--. ..' \ \ fCHAP. I. OF THE LYMPHATIC AND LACTEAL SYSTEMS OF VESSELS. INTRODUCTORY VIEWS. We have underflood that the red blood circulates in the body, through veffels (the arteries and veins) which have a diredt communication at their extremities by inofculation ; that although thefe veffels lie parallel to each other, and extend from the heart to the re- moteft part of the body, yet the blood is faid to pafs through the circulation, becaufe it is tranfmltted from the veins into the arteries through the medium of the heart; and from the extremities of the arteries diredtly into the veins, returning again to the centre. In this tranfmiffion of the blood through continuous tubes, there is in the coats of the veffels an alternation of con- traction and relaxation which impels it forward* But befides thefe arteries and veins carrying the red blood through the body, there are other veffels more remote in their connedlion with what is generally called the circulating fyftem of veffels. SECTION I. OF THE CAPILLARY VESSELS. The capillary veffels are thofe extreme branches which are as minute as hairs; but this, though the U 3 literal./ 2go OF THE CAPILLARY VESSELS. literal, is not the general meaning of the term. By capillary veflels is rather underftood thofe branches in which the changes are wrought from the blood, and which are either fo minute as not to allow the pro- mifcuous flow of the blood, or poflefl'ed of fuch a degree of irritability and appetency, as only to allow certain parts of that fluid to be tranfmitted. It is proved that in the living body there is no ex- udation ; but no fooner is the animal dead, than the fluids exude from the veflels, the fecretions pafs through the coats of thofe receptacles which formerly contained them, and the whole parts partake of an univerfal colour. From this Ample faCt, we are led to think that a property exifts iii the living fibre, which by con- traction or fome other property repels the fluids. Admitting this, it is very natural to fuppofe that the fibres, and more particularly the veflels, have a difcri- minating property ; fo that the capillary texture of each organ poflefles fenfibility, which has its relations to the fluids palling through them, or to be fecreted from them. If we admit this, we may alfo forfee the explanation of the moll puzzling phenomenon of inflammation. Inflammation is the effeCt of excitement: there is increafed aCtion of the arteries; and by the operation of the fame caufe, there is a deftruCtion of the natural fenfibilities of the capillary veflels, fo that they no longer are poflefl'ed of their diflinguilhing fenfibility, and they admit the promifcuous paflage of the red blood: they become dilated by the aCtion of the arteries, and vifibly diflended with red blood. . The effedt is not merely the mechanical derangement of the particlesU 4 and OF THE CAPILLARY VESSELS. 2<)\ particles of the blood. The chemical changes which take place in the extreme veflels are disordered, and the blood depofits upon the -extreme branches of the nervous fyftem an unufual proportion of irritability ; fo that with the rednefs arifing from the circulation of red blood through the hitherto pellucid veflels, in parts not endowed with fenfibility, there is acquired an unufual fenfibility, and the power of tranfmitting the fenfation to the fenforium. Since we fee that in an inflammatory date the pellucid veins tranfmit red blood, and that this red blood mud be Supplied by the ferous arteries; then it is proved that anfwering to the pellucid arteries (in their natural date) there are pellucid veins. We (hould acquiefce therefore in the opinion that fup- pofes both the arteries and veins to have pellucid capil- lary branches anfwering to each other, collateral to the larger and more palpable anadomofis of their red extremities. Thefe anadomofing branches of the arteries and veins in which the red blood is feen to circulate, perpetuate the flow of the greater part of the blood back to the heart, while the Several Secretions are performed in the capillary veflels*; but there is no reafon to fuppofe that the fluids Sent from the arteries into thefe pellucid capillary veflels are all poured out in form of Secretions : part returns into the extremities of the circulating veins.' The fecreted fluids and Solids are either carried away by duels into their receptacles, or thrown out from the body : while thofe fluids which are exuded on the cellular membrane and cavities are re-abforbed by the fydem of abforbent lymphatics. We fay then that arteries terminate, fird, in red veins; which is proved by the microfcope, and by mercurial292 OF THE CAPILLARY VESSELS. and other injections ; fecondly, in glands; thirdly, in cells receiving red blood ; fourthly, in lymphatic veins; fifthly, in exhalents, which pour their fluids into the cellular membrane, cavities, joints, &c. and which fluid is taken up by the valvular lymphatic abforbents. But thefe abforbent veflels, of which we are now to treat under the divifion of lymphatics, do alfo perform a circulation, in as much as they convey back to the centre of the fyftem the fluids, which have been thrown out from the extremities of the arteries. But as thefe lymphatic veflels are not continued from the extremities of the arteries as the red veins are, as they imbibe the fluids, which have been thrown out of the other fyftem ; their fluid contents cannot be conveyed through them by the force of the heart and arteries, they muft be peculiar in having powers with- in themfelves, firft of abforbing, and then of propel- ling their fluid onward to the heart. This common property of abforption in the lym- phatics, abforbents, and laCteals, and their being con- nected with the fame trunk, occafions their being con- iidered as one fyftem of veflels; when, in faCt, looking upon the general ceconomy of the living body, we find them miniftering to very different purpofes. The one branch of the fyftem, the lymphatics (as we have feen in the introduction to this volume), takes up the mat- ter which has been fecreted, and poured out from the arteries, (viz. all the folids and fluids of the body,) and conveys it again into the circulating fyftem. The laCltal veflels on the contrary, are thofe veflels which opening upon the inner furface of the inteftines re- ceive into them the nutritious fluids, prepared by the organs6 lympha- OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 2Q3 organs of digeftion, and fuited to fupply the inceflant wafte and deftruCtion of the folid and fluid parts of our frame, and which have been abforbed and carried away by the lymphatics. Following this Ample view, although the abforbent fyftem be commonly divided into the thoracic duCt, lymphatics, laCteals, and glan- dular apparatus attached to them, I (hall throw the prefent feCtion into the divifions of the lymphatics and of the lacteals. SECTION II. OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM IN PARTICULAR. The lymphatic vefiels are tubes whofe coats are perfectly pellucid, having a remarkable power of con- traction, which caufes them to (hrink, and difap- pear, fo as to render it difficult to demonftrate them. Indeed they are only to be obferved by an eye accuf- tomed to the making of lymphatic injections. They are called lymphatics, or ductus aquosI, from their tranfmitting a fluid colourlefs as water. When they are didended with their fluids, they (how that they poffid’s a very diflinCt character from the other circulating tubes. They are irregularly diftended, knotty, and fometirnes like a chain of beads, or little irregular veflcles connected together. This irregularity is owing to their numerous valves, which are femilunar membranes, like thofe of the veins, and hungacrofs their cavities, fo as to catch and interrupt the refluent lymph. They fay, in general, that in the fpace of an inch the«94 OF THE lymphatic system. lymphatic veflel has three or four pairs of valves. But this bears no certain proportion ; for as thefe veffels run where they are expofed to occafional compreflion from the furrounding parts, or bear the weight of a high column of fluid, their valves are more frequent. The- lymphatics are improperly called cylindrical tubes, fmce they are irregular from their valves branching and frequent communications. The coats of the lymphatic veflels are the ftrongelt of any in the body ; for al- though extremely thin and pellucid, they give refift- ance to diftention beyond a certain point, and bear a column of mercury which would burrt through the valves of veins, and tear the coats of arteries. If there be a mufcular coat, and no one ever denied the mufcularity of the lymphatics, then we may reckon three coats: Firlt, The inner coat,which is the conti- nuation of the inner tunic of the veins, as may be obferved in the opening of the thoracic du£t into the left fubclavian and left jugular veins.. It is fmooth and polifhed, forms duplicatures or valves, and pre- vents the tranfudation of their fluids: it is connected by cellular membrane to the middle coat. Secondly, The mufcular or middle coat, which confifls chiefly of mufcular fibres, which, according to Sheldon, run in every poflible direction, though the greater number take the circular dire&ion. And,la(lly, the outer coat, which is conne&ed with the general invefting cellular membrane. As the inner coat rnufl chiefly form the valves, and as the valves poflefs fo wonderful a power of refilling the column of mercury, I fhould hold that the inner coat is that, on which the ftrength and refift- ance29 5 OF THE GLANDS, &C. ance to didention of the lymphatics depends, though it has been faid that it is to the outer coat that they owe this property. The mufcularity of thefe veflfels is rather inferred than proved : it is inferred from the unaflided action which they have to perform in prefling the abforbed fluids onward to the heart. Neverthelefs we fometimes fee the lymphatics of the lower extremi- ties of a colour fo red and flelhy, that we may fay their mufcularity is demondrable. The lymphatics feem to poflefs little elaflicity ; when they are blown into, they rife with the flighted force, and remain didended, although the pafiage of the air forward be uninterrupted : whereas, had they confider- able eladicity, they would contrad and difappear. In- deed, when empty, in the dead body they may be rather faid to be collapfed than contraded.—Although the lymphatics can be didended with the flighted inflations, yet when didended, as we have already obferved, they firmly refid further dilatation. This is a quality necef- fary to their valvular drudure, for if they were eladic beyond this degree of dilatation, the caliber of the veflel would be occafionally fo enlarged as to render the valves incapable of meeting, and of preventing the retrograde movement of the fluids. SECTION, III. of the Glands of the absorbent system. Every where throughout the body and vifcera be- twixt the extreme branches of the abforbent fydem 1 and29 6 Of THE GLANDS OP andthe trunk, glandularbodies are interpofed. Though of various forms they are generally of an oval fhape, and they vary in fize from the twentieth part of an inch to a full inch in diameter. Sometimes they are fegregated,—fometimes accumulated and cluftered to- gether. The colour of thofe bodies is various in the feveral parts of the body : in young animals they are redder, and become pale only with age. They are redder and ftronger in the outer parts of the body, as in the thigh, axilla, &c. lefs fo within the abdomen and thorax. 2. The latter will not bear fo high a column of mercury as the former. The mefenteric glands are faid totally to difappear in old age*. It would appear that the glands of this fyftem are of more importance to young animals than to adults. In the foetus and in children the la&eal and lymphatic glands are exceedingly numerous; but they fhrink or difappear with old age. In the foetus, indeed, they can be of no very efiential ufe; they are then rather in a date of preparation for the aflions necefiary in infancy and youth. It is then alfo that they are mod liable to difeafe, and feem more irritable and ready to inflame, efpecially in fuperficial fituations. About the age of fourteen or fifteen this difpofition is changed, which is commonly faid to proceed from the increafed vigour of the conftu tution, and the change which then takes place on the organs of generation. It is rather to be attributed, however, to the diminution of irritability and a&ivity of their veflels in verging to the adult ftate, which is marked by their comparatively lefs fize, and finaller de- * By Buyfch, Morgagni, Haller, Sheldon. greeTHE ABSORBENT SYSTEM. gree of vafcularity. We may further obferve that the lymphatic glands, even in the fcrophulous difeafes, are feldom primarily affedled : that they partake of difeafed adtion from the furface, or from an affedtion of the inteftines, or from the abforption of matter. The ftrucHire of thefe glands has not been fatisfadlorily invedigated ; or the inquiry is attended with infur- mountable difficulties. Some anatomifls have faid, that they confuted of the convoluted abforbent veffels j others that they are of a cellular ftrudlure. When they affirm that thefe cells are totally diftindt from the lymphatic veffiels, it is not fo eafy to underftand them: for ceils communicating with each other, and into which the lymphatic veffiels enter, are very much the fame with a leries of convoluted, varicofe, and ir- regularly dilated veffieis. If we could diffiedt this feries of cells, as Haller did the veficulse feminales, we fhould have reprefented to us the appearance of a con- voluted varicofe veffel. There is a coat of cellular membrane which fur- rounds the glands. This coat is pervaded by a peculiar fluid which has given rife to fome fpeculation. It is obferved chiefly in young animals, and is for the moll part, though not always, white and milky, and in the glands of the lungs it is of a blackifh colour. This is the fluid which having globules in it, was fuppofed by Mr. Hewfon to be the firft ftage of the formation of the red globules of the blood. It is diftindt from the abforbed fluids, and is a fecretion from the arteries. Phyfiologifts have not determined the nature or ufe of this fluid. At29B ORIGIN OF THE LYMPHATICS. At prefent there feems no better hypothecs to be offered regarding the ufe of the lymphatic and la&eal glands, than that they ferve to check, controul, and meafure the flow of the abforbed fluids into the mafs of the blood : without them it appears to me probable that at one time the lymph returning from the body, or at another time the chyle, might flow too rapidly, and in a difproportioned quantity into the veins and heart. But by the check which the glands impofe upon this flow, giving a remora and ferving as receptacles of the abforbed fluids, thofe fluids are poured with a more uniform and conftant flow upon the heart. I / SECTION IV. ORIGIN OF THE LYMPHATICS, AND OF THE DOC- TRINES OF ABSORPTION. The lymphatics, forming a fyftem of abforbents, we might fay, in general, that they take up all the fluids which have been thrown out upon the furfaces of the body. Thus they arife from the furface of the Ikin ; from the furface of the cavities and vifcera covered by the pleura and peritoneum ; from the cells of the inter- flitial and adipofe membrane, &c. This is the Ample ufe afiigned to this fyffem of veflels: but whether they are the only fyftem of abforbents ; whether they carry away all the parts of the fyftem, fluids and folids ; whether they abforb the rnufcles, membranes, bones, tendons, &c. of which the folid body confifts, is a queftion requiring fevere examination. It cannot be denied that although the fyftem and do&rines of ab- forptionAND OF THE DOCTRINES OF ABSORPTION. 299 forption be the mod beautiful and interefting, and apparently the fimpleft in the whole ceconomy, yet it is founded on verv few facts, while there is much doc- trine tacitly acknowledged, which feems in fymmetry with the fa£ts and the laws of the ceconomy, but which is not founded in abfolute proof. We lhall firft exa- mine the proofs of the lymphatics being the veflels which abforb the fluids of the cavities and furfaces of the body. The animal machine univerfally partakes of motion. A principal provifion for this mobility of parts, is the loofenefs of the cellular membrane which every where pervades the body, and fupports the veflels and connects the feveral parts. This interflitial membrane is elaftic, and being cellular, to allow of motion, its furface is bedewed with ferous exudation. This fluid is perpetually palling from the extremities or fides of the lymphatic arteries or capillaries, into the cellular membrane, and upon all the cavities of the body. The fluid extravafated is called lymph, and fome have fuppofed that it pafles through inorganized pores, an exprefiion that is not very intelligible ; but if by this is meant (as has fometimes been explained) “ accidental pores” in the fides of the veflels, it is a fuppofition quite improbable and unlikely *. The * Dr. Hunter fupported this opinion (Commentaries p. 40,) viz. “ that the fluids 6f cavities were collected by tranfudation, and not thrown out by exhalents an opinion which could only have arifen from not correcting the ideas received in making injections in the dead body by the phenomena of the living fyftem. See Hewfon on the Lymphatic Syjlem, chap. viii. where the opinion of inorganical filtering is fuccefsfully combated.—See alfo Cruick- Ihanks. pores300 ORIGIN OF THE LYMPHATICS, pores or veffeis from which this fluid exudes are called exhalent; and their aftion is no doubt as completely fecretion as that which produces the fluids, which in pur wifdom we call more perfect fecretions. That the lymphatics take up the fluids thrown out in the cavities of the body, as the abdomen, thorax, pericardium, &c. there is what nearly amounts to an abfolute proof, in comparing the fluids of thofe cavities with that contained in the veffeis, for by the experi- ments of Hewfon it is found that if the fluid inoiftening the cavities be colle&ed, it will form a jelly when ex- pofed to the air, as the coagulable lymphatic does. Again, if a lymphatic veffel be tied up in a living animal, and then qpened fo as to allow the fluid to flow into a cup, it will alfo form a jelly like the coagu- lable lymph*. The fluid of cavities alters in animals difeafed; fometimes retaining its coagulability, and even acquiring ftronger powers ; fometimes lofing it al- together. But what is moll effential to our prefent purpofe, it has been obferved, that whatever change * But, by difeafe, the fluids in the cavities and cellular mem- brane is altered. In dropfy, for example, t,he fluid of the abdomen lofes the property of coagulating on mere expofure ; it comes to refemble more the ferum of the blood: this were fufficient proof that the colledion is not owing merely to the diminilhed abforption, but that there is a change of adion in the veffeis of the peritoneum, pleura, pericardium, &c. An inflam- matory adion of the veffeis will throw out a fluid more coagulable, and which, in a high degree of adion, will form a film of coagu- lable lymph or even pus on the furface. But in a ftate the reverfe of inflammation, fuch for example as the debility following inflammation, a ferous effufion will be poured out, having little tendency to coagulate. take3AND OF THE DOCTRINE OF ABSORPTION. 30I takes place in the fluids of the cavities, the fame is found to have taken place in the lymphatics. But the ftudent naturally afks, how is the lymph taken into the lymphatic veflfels ; and here it mull be confeflfed, there is too much field for c mjedture. It was thought formerly that the lymphatic arteries terminated in fmall pellucid veins: thefe veins carry- ing only the thinner, and refufing the red part of the blood, were called lymphatics. When the anatomifl threw in his minute injection, and faw the coloured fluid return by the red veins, and the colourlefs fluid return by the lymphatics *, it was held as a fuf- ficient proof of the accuracy of the preconceived no- tion, and tallied with obfervations of Leewenhoeck, and the theory of Boerhaave. See. Introduction to Vol. III. When, however, anatomifls more carefully examined the ftate of parts, they found that the lym- phatics were not filled, unlefs the cellular membrane was previoufly injefted by the extravafation of the fluid from the blood veffels. Finding that this alleged experiment was really no proof of the anaftomofis, and direft communication betwixt the extreme arteries and lymphatics, they conceived that it was a proof that thefe lymphatics took their rife from the cellular interftitial texture. Then inje&ing with mercury, they found that when the veffels burii, and the column luddenly defcended, and the cellular membrane was filled, the mercury was feen to rife in the lymphatics. Following up this, they blew air, or inje&ed various * It was probably Nuck who firft injected the lymphatics from the arteries. Vol, IV. X fluids302 ORIGIN OF THE LYMPHATICS, fluids diredly into the cellular membrane, and injeded the lymphatics. Thus by an error, by an accidental effed of their injedion, the minds of Dr. Hunter and Monro were opened to a freer difcuflion of the re- ceived opinions and approved authorities. Soon, however, it was underflood by thofe converfant with anatomy, that thefe accidental injedions of the lym- phatics did not prove the lymphatics to take their origin either from the cells or from the extreme arteries; but already this good effect, at leaft, was produced, that men’s minds were excited to inquire after new fads and trains of obfervation. It was now recolleded, that a Arid; analogy and correfpondence fubfifted betwixt the lymphatics and ladeals; the proofs of the ladeals being abforbents, were recalled to memory ; new proofs of their being the foie abforbents of the inteftines were brought forward ; the nature of the fluids effufed into the various cavities and cells of the body was attended to ; and the conviction followed, that the moft eflfen- tial ufe of the lymphatic veflels was to ferve as a fyftera of abforbents, to take up the extravafated fluids. They refleded that to diftend the inteflines with injec- tion would never fill the ladeals; and were convinced that the injedion of the lymphatics could not be fup- pofed to be through the proper abforbing mouths of thefe veflels opening upon the cells; but rather that the injedion had entered the veflels by the rupture of their extreme branches. Thus the theory of the lym- phatics being a fyflem of abforbents, came to reft on analogy, and the obfervation of the phenomena of the living body. TheAND OF THE DOCTRINE OF ABSORPTION. 303 The chief proof of the lymphatic abforption has been derived from the manner in which the venereal virus is received into the fyftem. Venereal matter being allowed to lodge upon the-delicate fkin of the glans penis or preputium, caufes an ulcer there. The mat- ter of this ulcer is abforbed by the lymphatic of the part; an inflamed line is fometimes to be traced into the groin ; and the lymphatic gland of the groin receiving this abforbed matter, inflames and forms the bubo. Here, then, is a proof that the red veins do not abforb, and that lymphatics do: elfe why are they inflamed,—and why are the lymphatic glands inflamed to fuppuration. We mull obferve, however, that this is by no means an abfolute proof of abforption ; nor is there here unequivocal evidence of venereal matter having been abforbed. Although, therefore, we believe in the gene- ral fyltem, we may hazard thefe queries :—If this matter is abforbed, why is there no infection without ulcer (chancre) of the glands? If this ulcer be produced by abforption, how comes it that the conftitution is not infedted by the firfl abforption of the matter, and before it has formed an ulcer ? Is it not probable that the irri- tation of the venereal matter, lodging on this vafcular furface, and without being abforbed, caufcs a peculiar inflammation, the tendency of which is to form a puftule, and to produce matter fimilar to that which originally infedted the part with the fpecific and peculiar adlion ? Again it will be faid, however the venereal puflule was originally produced, it appears evident that the abforption of this matter, the conveying of it along the lymphatic, inflames the veflfel, and the next X 2 lymphatic304 ORIGIN OF THE LYMPHATICS, lymphatic gland into which it enters, receiving the venereal matter, inflames and fuppurates, &c. But again, I choofe to fay, with every (how of likelihood, that neither is this a proof of abforption ; but that the lymphatic velTel being very irritable, and always receiv- ing its ftimulus to action from its extremities, it has partaken of the venereal inflammation ; that this in- flammation has been propagated to the gland; that, the gland being formed of the convoluted lymphatic veflels, the effedt of this inflammatory adtion is then accumulated to fo great a degree as to deftroy the fundtion of the gland and lead to fuppuration *. And further, that the difeafe is received into the conftitution only in confequence of the fyftem at large partaking of the irritation (a word which but imperfectly expreffes the change) of the local adtion of veflels. Matter might be abforbed and taken into the conftitution, and the difeafe propagated according to the common explana- tion j but, according to that offered here, there mud be a primary and local difeafe, from which the general affedtion is propagated. If we are to take the inflam- mation and hardening of the lymphatics and axillary- glands as a fymptom of abforption from a difeafed mamma, we muft acknowledge the fame proof in evidence of the veins abforbing : for although the lymphatics are more adtive, and their adtivity depends on the ftate of their origins and extreme branches, * If a chancre be indolent, although master be formed in it, no bubo will be produced : but if the furgeon applies fome cor- rofive drefling, which, inftead of entirely deftroying the difeafed fpot, inflames it; then will the gland in the groin fympathize and rife into a bubo. moreAND OF THE DOCTRINE OF ABSORPTION. 305 more irritable, more vafcular (I will venture to fay), and more liable to inflammation than the veins j yet are the veins affefted in a way that wou'd as unequivocally prove them to be abforbents, for we fee how they enlarge around a difeafed bread, become prominent and hard, and lofe their foftnefs and eladicity. But, as we would not fay that this is a proof of abforption by the veins, neither is the proof unequivocal that there is abforption by the lymphatics. Again, a fup- purating dump, with bad inflammation, will caufe. inflammation of the lymphatics, and fuppuration in the glands of the groin * ; a proof of abforption of the matter of the dump: but we do not find that from fuch a dump the veins afcend, inflamed and fuppurat- ing, while fometimes a chain of abceflfes is formed for a confiderable extent. This, we can have no doubt, is the effect of the inflammation continued along the veflel; and is not the inflammation produced precifely in the lame way in the lymphatic ? I found my opinion of the lymphatics being abfor- bents,—fird, on the circumdance that their dru&ure is adapted to this a&ion; fecondly, on the analogy between them and the ladeals, in which abforption is proved; thirdly and ladly, upon their continuing to receive and tranlmit their'fluids, after the heart and arteries have ceafed to beat, and the red blood to circulate : for then how can they act, but by their own powers? How can they receive fluids, but by abforption? Finally, this phe- nomenon fnows in the lymphatics, a greater degree of irritability, and Aronger principle of activity and ten- acity of life, than actuates any other fet of ved’eis. * See Hunter’s Commentaries, x 3 Of[ 3°6 1 OF THE ABSORPTION OF SOLIDS. On examining the works which within the laft forty years have contributed to throw light on this fubjedt, we at once acknowledge how neceffary it is for that part of a fyflematic book of anatomy, which profefles to treat of abforption, to take the form of a critical inquiry. When the abforption of the fluids of the cellular fub- ftance, or in the cavities, was univerfally affented to, phy- fiologifts did not make lufficient diftindlion betwixt the abforption of the fluid thrown out of the influence of the circulating veflels, and that matter which continued to be involved in the membranes and veflels, and which formed the folid part of our frame. It will readily be allowed that the fluid thrown out upon the furfaces of the body and in the cells, might be abforbed without inferring that every part of the body, folids and fluids, were alfo taken up by the lymphatic abforbent veflels. But phyfiologifts obferving that the folid parts of the body were fuffering perpetual change ; that the whole body and the veflels themfelves were formed, decom- pofed, and carried away ; they hefitated not to attribute this to the depofition from the arteries, and the abforp- tion by the lymphatics. This alternate deftruction and renovation of parts, the perpetual change which the whole body fufiers, has been univerfally acknowledged and attributed in part to the operation of the lymphatic iyftem, without any other proof than a flight analogy. The interftitial fluids, and the fluid in the cavities, is imbibed by the abforbing mouths of the lymphatics on the furface of the membranes; but where is the ana- i°gyOF THE ABSORPTION OF SOLIDS. 3°7 X 4 laboured. logy between this and the deftrudtion of folid parts ? It has been faid that the abforbents eat down the folids, and nibble like the mouth of a worm ! a conjedture, the falfity of which is equal to its apparent abfurdity. The folids are raifed by the agency of the veflels on the chemical affinities of the circulating fluids. They mull be refolved by their decompofltion, reducing them again to the date of fluids; or the fecreting veflels throw out fluids which diflolve them: an operation anterior to their abforption. From the comparative fimplicity of the fluids of the circulating veflels, and that in the ab- forbents, we are authprized to conclude, that as from the blood the feveral fecretions, folids, and fluids are formed ; thefe fluids, before they are again taken into the adtive fyftem of veflels, are refolved into their origi- nal Ample and conftituent parts. Thus we are not to look for the matter of the component parts of the body in the abforbing fyflem of veflels more than in the blood, from which thefe parts were originally formed. Upon this fubjedt I conceive, that the abforption of the folids depends but in a limited degree on the agency of the lymphatics; and that there is a neceflary change in the aggregation of the matter previous to the abforp- tion by the mouths of the lymphatic veflels. EXAMINATION OF SOME OPINIONS OF MR. HUNTER. ON THE SUBJECT OF ABSORPTION OF SOLIDS. Mr. Hunter fays that his conception of the mat- ter is, that nature leaves little to chance ; and that the whole operation of abforption is performed by an action in the mouths of the abforbents. Phyfiologifts have308 OF THE ABSORPTION OF SOI.IDS. laboured^ he ohferves, to explain abforption on th<? principle of capillary attraction, becaufe it was familiar ; but as they were dill under the neceffity of fuppofing aCtion in the veflels after the mattef was abforbed, they might as well have carried this aCtion to the mouths of thefe veflels. One never could have ventured to fuppofe the extra- vagant conclufion to which this idea, once entertained, has led Mr.Hunter.—He proceeds to confider the many kinds of folids the lymphatics have to carry away, and the variety of mouths in different animals, fuited to the great variety of fubflances they have to work upon, and then draws the conclufion, or leaves his reader to do fo; that not only are the mouths of the lymphatics calculated to abforb fluids ; not only do they carry away the folids, but each veflel, according to the hard- nefs and toughnefs of the material upon which it has to operate, has a mouth adapted for the work. Here we do not fee the genius of Hunter, but a poverty of imagination. Mr. Hunter takes the merit of a new doClrine relating to abforption.—He admits that oil, fat, and earth of bones had always been confldered as fubjeft to abforption ; and that forne other parts of the body liable to wafte had been fuppofed to fuffer by abforp- tion ; but that any folid part fhould be abforbed, he fuppofes to be entirely a new doftrine.—Now, I think we may venture to affirm, that not only was it known that folid parts of the body were taken away during life; but that phyflologifts knew each and every part of the living body to be undergoing a perpetual decay and renovation. Nay, we may venture further to fay, that Mr. Hunter did not comprehend, in its full extent, theOF THE ABSORPTION OF SOLIDS. 3°9 the relation in which the fecreting and abforbing vefels Hand to each other. He is fond of calling the abfor- bents, modellers,—modellers of the original con- ftrudion of the body,’7—c' modellers of the form of the body while growing.” No doubt he imderfiood that fucli terms from their novelty would be acceptable to minds incapable of real conviction, or of receiving or appreciating a new fact or idea. Mr. Hunter could contemplate no change in the body during growth, de<'ay, or difeafe, where there was an alteration of form or quantity of matter, without attributing it to the “ modelling abforption.” —A bone cannot be removed without abforption ; nor a part which is ufelefs to the ceconomy (as the alveoli of the teeth, the dudusarteri- ofus, the membrana pupillaris, the thymus gland) diminifhed in fize. or totally carried away, without the abforbents being in adion. This is undoubtedly true ; but in regard to the manner in which it is performed we cannot agree with Mr. Hunter. When it becomes neceffary that fome part fhouid be removed, it is evident that nature, in order to died tiiis, muff not only confer a new adivity on the abforbents, but muft throw the part to be abforbed into fuch a if ate as to yield to this operation. This is the only animai power capable of producing fuch eileds; and like all other operations of the machine, it arifes from Jiimulus or irritatiom &c. Now, this appears to be the fundamental error of Mr. Hunter’s dodrine. I conceive that the abforption of parts in the natural adion of health or in difeafe, is not owing toincrealed ftirnulus,butoften toadiminutionof it. Does it not flrike us forcibly that when a gland fwells, and leeches and biifters are applied, and it fubfides.310 OF THE AESORPTION OF SOLIDS. fubfides, there can be no means of exciting abforption ; that when preffure is made on a part, and that part is abforbed, this is a ilrange way of flimulating ? Or when we bleed, is it not odd that this fhould give new power to the lymphatic fyflem ? for thefe are the means of giving a counter irritation, and of fupprefling adion. Mr. Hunter has given to the lymphatics not only the grovelling qualities of animals, as eating ; but the higher attributes of intellect. They do nothing with- out forethought and intention ; when they abforb, it is becaufe they have found the parts ufelefs in the ceconomy. He has carried this notion fo far, that he does not only fpeak of the abforption of the thymus gland, membrana pupillaris, alveoli of the teeth, &c.; but of the body in fever as a confequence of its be- coming ufelefs when under difeafe '.-—The following may perhaps appear to be the more natural fuppofition : In a living body we may obferve the agency of the nervous, vafcular, and abforbing fyftems: and the phenomena of life are not to be attributed to any one, but to the whole of thefe. We muff alfo ob- ferve, that life, or the mutual adion of parts pro- ducing the phenomena of life, is proceeding from excitement, and as in the whole fytlem, fo in the individual parts of the body, the healthy adion depends on the influence of this excitement to adion. The tendency of the growth of the body to peculiar forms, and the increafe of parts in difeafe are produced by it. It ads upon the vafcular fyflem in difeafe, by producing increafed adion and fecretion ; as a rnufcle, in the ufe o.f frequent and flrong adion, will become more flefhy and vafcular; as a gland, will be excited to greater adionOF THE ABSORPTION OF SOLIDS. 3II attion and more profufe difcharge, whilft it enlarges and fwells up. When a part enlarges in confequence of the ftimulus to increafed adtion, either arifing from the natural law of the conllitution or from difeafe, it pro- ceeds from the fecreting veffels preponderating over the abforbing veffels. There is a depofition of matter which the latter are unable to take away. But diminilh this adlion of the arteries, or take away their excitement, or caufe an excitement of fome neighbouring part, and thereby fubdue their adtion, relieve them of their fulnefs, and the abforbents regain their proportioned adlions, and the part fubfides. The parts of the body, which, in the natural changes from youth to age, are abforbed and carried away, are thofe in which there is no longer the (limulus to vigorous adlion, and of courfe the lym- phatics preponderate over the power of the fecreting veffels, and the part gradually diminilhes, lofes its ap- parent vafcularity, loles its rednefs, and is at laft totally abforbed. And as the tooth of a child lies long hid under the jaw, where it partakes of the ftimulus to the a&ion of its veffels, grows, and rifes up, and the al- veoli, partaking of this natural excitement, alfo form around it ; fo when the tooth decays and falls out, the alveoli will alfo decay and be abforbed ; becaufe the moment thefe veffels have ceafed to partake of the in- creafed adlion, their abforbents, though adling with no greater powers than formerly, do yet fo preponderate, that a gradual walling is the confequence. Thus we have to confider not the adlion of the abforbents merely, but the relation which their adlion has to that of the arteries. I would312 OF THE ABSORPTION OF SOLIDS. I fhould conclude that a part which has ceafed to be of ufe in the oeconomy and is abforbed, has not been carried away by the ftimulus applied to the model- ling lymphatics ; but in confequence of a want of the ufual excitement of the parts to a&ion, and of the con- fequent preponderance of the a&ionof the lymphatics 5 not by an increafe of their aftion, but by a greater uni- formity of a&ion, lefs dependent on the ftate of excite- ment of the part. This more uniform ftate of aftion, or leffer degree of dependence on excitement, will not be denied when we fee them continuing their aftion after the death of the animal, and after the other phe- nomena of life have ceafed. As to the abforption of the body in general from difeafe, as in fever, it appears to be limply the eft'edt of the continued abforption, while neither the organs for digefting and afiimulating new matter, nor the vafcular fyftem for conveying the fluids, are in a ftate to mimfter to the wants of the fyftem, but fuffer under an unufual irritation, which diforders their fun&ion. As to preflure caufmg abforption and producing the wafting of parts, I cannot agree with Mr. Hunter in fuppofing that the lymphatics are here excited to a&ion; but fhould rather infer that the nerves of the parts being benumbed, and the a&ion of the arteries fupprefled, the lymphatics continue to do their office, while the arteries are prevented from depoftting new matter.—For example, when we fee a curvature of the fpine, from a habitual inclination ofthe body to one fide, and confequently greater pref- fure on the one fide of the bodies of the vertebra : 6 itOF THE ABSORPTION OF SOLIDS. 313 it is natural, at firft fight, to fay, fince the one fide of the vertebra is of its natural depth, and the other diminifhed, that the fide which is deep has re- mained, but the other fide has been abforbed ; but, when we inquire a little deeper into the phenomenon, which has taken place, we recoiled: that the matter of bone is undergoing a perpetual change, and that the matter of both fides of the vertebra is changed j we fee that the preffure may not have excited the veffels to greater adion fo as to caufe abforption ; but that the preffure has prevented the depofiticn of new matter, when the old was taken away in the natural rotine of the fyftem. Mr. Hunter has afligned five caufes of abforption, which I conceive may be very naturally refolved into one.—Thefe are, i, parts being preffed $ 2, parts being irritated; 3, parts being weakened; 4, parts being rendered ufelefs ; 5, parts becoming dead : of the firft: we have already Ipoken ; the fecond I (hould deny, unlefs when, it refolves into the third; for irritation does not caufe abforption, unlefs when it is to an extent fufficient to del troy the natural adion and weaken the part. The third and fourth come under the effed of the lofs of the natural and accuftomed ftimulus to adion in the arterial fyftem, which of courfe gives a preponderance to the abforbents : of the fitth we can have nothing to add illuftrative of the living fyftem.[ 3*4 ] CHAP. II. Of THE COURSE OF THE LYMPHATICS. The lymphatics, in their courfe and relation to the fafcia and mufcles of the extremities, bear a great analogy to the veins ; for there are two fets or grand divifions,—the deep lymphatics which accompany the arteries in their branchings amongft the mufcles; and the superficial fet which accompany the ex- ternal veins. SECTION I. Of the foot, leg, and thigei. Even in the toes the fame deflin&ion of the origins of the lymphatics may be obferved, as in the limb. For while a plexus covers the toes fuperficially, and runs up upon the foot with the veins, deeper branches accompany the arteries on the fide of the toes. When we obferve the courfe and origins of the greater and lefier faphena vein, we cannot fail to underfland the courfe of the feveral fets or divifions of the lymphatics of the foot and legs. From the toes, dorfum, and edges of the foot, the lymphatics climb up the leg in four clafies. i. One takes a courfe from the root of the great toe and infide of the foot, over the tendons of the great toe and tibialis anticus tendon. It then pafles on the infide of 7 theOF THE COURSE OF THE LYMPHATICS. 315 the tendon of the tibialis anticus mufcle, and before the head of the tibia, following the principal branch of the great faphena vein; and then continues its courfe in company with the faphena to the infide of the knee. 2. There is at the fame time a confiderable number of lymphatics, taking their origin from nearly the fame place, viz. the infide of the foot, and before the inner ancle ; but they take a different courfe on the leg from the laft clafs ; for they pafs behind the lower head of the tibia : they now attach themfelves to fome branch of the faphena vein? and join the former fet on the infide of the knee. From this they afcend fuperficially above the fafcia to the glands of the groin. 3. From the out- fide of the foot there afcend feveral lymphatics; a di- vifion of which paffes before the outer ancle and acrofs the tibia to join the lymphatics, parafites of the great faphena vein, and here they fometimes form plexus and contortions; others turn in behind the outer ancle, and join the branches accompanying the leffer faphena. The lymphatics which turn round behind the outer ancle pafs on the outfide of the tendo achillis; and ac- companying the leffer faphena vein, fink into the popli- teal hollow. Here they unite with the lymphatics which have accompanied the feveral arteries of the leg and foot, and particularly the poflerior tibial artery. Popliteal glands. The glands of the ham-firing cavity are generally three in number, and very finall. They receive the lymphatics, which pafs with the in- ternal tibial artery and with the leffer faphena, and they of courfe fvvell and become inflamed in confe- quence of fores on the calf of the leg, outfide of the foot, and foie of the foot. From316 op the course of the lymphatics. From the popliteal glands there afcend two large lymphatics, which accompany the popliteal artery and venae comites, and afcend with the latter through the addu&or magnus to the fore part of the thigh. They run irregularly, or form a kind of network round the great veffels. On the fore part of the thigh, and (fill deep, they (or at lead fome of the principal trunks) enter the lower and deep inguinal glands, or emerging, they pafs into the outward glands of the groin. Some- times thefe deep lymphatics, indead of being accumu- lated into larger trunks, divide into many branches, and only unite in the glands of the groin. Inguinal glands. The inguinal glands are in number from five to ten ; they lie involved in cellular membrane on the outfide of the femoral ligament. Some of them are fuperficial and moveable under the integuments ; fome involved in the laminae of the fafcia, defcending from the abdominal mufcles; fome are clofe on the femoral artery and vein, and under the fafcia. Nearer to the pubes may be obferved a divifion of thefe glands which belong to the lymphatics of the penis, perineum, &c. The greater cluder of glands on the top of the thigh becomes affefled from difeafe of the integuments on the fore part and infide of the thigh and leg; and of that part of the foot where the great faphena vein com- mences j nay, further, the inguinal glands fwell from fores of the buttocks, about the anus and private parts. They will even fwell from difeafe of the tefticle; but this only by fympathy. Lymphatics of the parts of generation in both sexes. From the penis there run backwards twoOF THE COURSE 05 THE LYMPHATICS. 317 two fets of lymphatics : fuperficial ones, which take a courfe to the groin ; and deeper ones, which take a courfe along the arteries of the penis into the pelvis, or under the arch of the pubis. - The fuperficial lympha- tics are the cutaneous veflels, and take their origin from the prepuce, and it is thefe which, either abforb- ing the venereal matter of chancre, or fympathizing with the venereal action, form fometimes an inflamed line along the penis, and caufe the buboe in the groin. But as there are two fets of lymphatics, the chancre may be in a place where the deep-feated veflels are the abforbents, and confequently the conflitution is contaminated without any buboe in the groin ; and indeed it has been obferved, that a venereal ulcer of the prepuce will, in general, produce buboe, when an ulcer of the glands will not *. When the trad of the matter is through the deep lymphatics which enter the pelvis from below, the gland through which the veflels pafs, is not inflamed to form a buboe ; neither do the lymphatic glands within the ligament of the thigh in- flame to the extent of forming a buboe, either from chancre or from buboe in the groin. This, fays a celebrated anatomift, Mr. Cruickfhanks, is very fortu- nate ; for if the external iliac glands, like the inguinal glands, fhould fuppurate, they could not be opened by the lancet, they muff be left to themfelves; they might burft $ the pus might fall into the cavity of the abdo- men ; might produce peritoneal inflammation; and might probably deftrov the patient. Now, there ap- pears no reafon to dread any fuch cataftrophe. The matter of thefe glands would form an abcefs, which. Vol. IV. Cruickflianks, page 138. Y like318 OF THE COURSE OF THE LYMPHATICS. like other abcefles in the track of thefe veflels, would fall down upon the thigh. The fad, however, is curious; that when the lymphatics difeafed enter one fet of glands, there will be no buboe ; when they take a courfe to the other, they inflame and fuppurate. This 1 believe may be explained, from confidering the po- fiton of the inguinal glands, as being immediately under the (kin : for experience fhows that a part near the furface will inflame and proceed to fuppuration much more readily than a part deep feated, though fuffering from the fame degree of excitement. In the external parts of woman (by Mr. Cruick- lhanks’s obfervation) there are alfo two fets of lympha- tics. Thofe near the clitoris pafs up in a diredtfon to the ring; and thofe from the lower part of the vulva and perineum to the glands of the groin. Lymphatics and glands within the liga- ment of the thigh. The vafa efterentia of the inguinal glands are in number from two to fix. The deep lymphatics which accompany the femoral vein and artery, lying under the cellular membrane, pafs under the ligament, and foon form a large net-work of veflels accompanying the iliac veflels, in which they are joined by the branches of lymphatics from the fuperflcial glands ; fometimes the trunks accompanying the great veflels of the thigh pafs into a gland, imme- diately within the ligament; fometimes one or two of them only enter into the glands high in the loins; nay, fometimes a large veflel pafles on diredly to the thoracic dud. From fix to eight or ten glands are feated in the trad of the external iliac veflels, under the name of external iliac glands. And upon the infide of 1 theOF THE COURSE OF THE LYMPHATICS. 319 the brim of the pelvis, and on the hypogaftric veffels, the glands are called the internal iliac glands. In proportion to the frequency of difeafe in the pelvis, thefe external iliac glands, being in the tradt of the lymphatics of the private parts and redtum, See. are particularly fubjedt to difeafe. Thofe glands alfo which are called sacral glands, as lying on the mefo-redtum, and in the hollow of the facrum, have been obferved to be often difeafed. Oil the pfoas mufcle, and on the loins it is impolfible to trace the velfels as fingle trunks; we may obferve that one net-work of velfels afeends upon each pfoas mufcle from the thigh ; that there it is joined by the lymphatics of the pelvis. Thefe velfels are in a manner united by thofe which cover the prominency of the facrum, and pafs under the bifurcation of the aorta. The two great lumbar plexus of lymphatics continuing their afeenr, many of the velfels enter into the lumbar glands; and on the loins they are joined by the abforb- ents of the tellicle. By the union of the lymphatics afeending from the right and left fide, with feveral large trunks of the ladteals from the root of the me- fentery, the thoracic duct is formed on the third and fourth vertebra of the loins. of the lymphatics of the arm. In the arm, as in the leg and thigh, there are two fets of lymphatics:—the fuperficial and deep feated. The firfl: of thefe accompany the cutaneous veins, the latter the deep arteries. Y 2 As320 OF THE COURSE OF THE LYMPHATICS. As in general there are two great veins on the fore arm, the bafilic and cephalic veins; but particularly a3 the veins which gather into the balilic trunk, on the inner and lower edge of the fore-arm, are the larger and more numerous clafs; fo it is found that the courfe of the more numerous clafs of lymphatics is on the lower and inner fide of the fore arm, and that they accumulate about the bafilic vein. Thefe are derived from the palm of the hand, and from the ulnar edge of the hand. This fet fometimes paffes into glands, feated on the brachial artery, near the inner condyle of the humerus. The abforbents which accompany the cephalic vein, arife from the fides of the thumb and fore finger upon the back of the hand ; they run on the radial edge of the arm, with the veins which afcend to form the cephalic vein. From the bend of the arm thefe veffels take a courfe on the outer edge of the biceps, and then get betwixt the inner edge of the deltoid, and outer edge of the pedtoral mufcles ; they then pafs under the clavicle, and defcend into the axillary glands. This fet of abforbents receive the branches from the outfide of the arm in their whole courfe. There are abforbents arifing from the back of the hand, next the little finger, which following fome of the branches of the bafilic vein (a larger branch of which is called the ulnaris externa) turn round the ulnar edge of the arm, are inferted into a gland, very commonly found before and a little above the inner condyle of the humerus. From this gland a large lymphatic paffes upwards, and attaching itfelf to the brachial artery, fplits and plays around it. TheOF THE COURSE OF THE LYMPHATICS. 321 The deep-feated lymphatics of the arm accompany the arteries in the fame manner as the venae comites do ; in general two with each artery. They all termi- nate in the glands of the axilla, and can require no particular defcription. The lymphatics, from the mufcles and integuments on the back of the fhoulder, alfo turn round and enter into the glands of the axilla. The glands of the arm are fmall, and irregularly placed in the courfe of the humeral artery, from the condyle to the axilla. They are from three to fix in number. The glands of the axilla are large and nume- rous ; they receive the lymphatics from the arm, bread, and fhoulder * ; they lie in the deep cavity of the axilla, formed by the tendons of the pe&oralis major, and latiflimus dorfi mufcles. They are imbedded in a loofe cellular membrane, which, while it furrounds and fupports the vefiels of the axilla in the motions of the joint, gives them ftrength from its elafticity. Thefe glands do not all furround the axillary artery; but a lower duller is attached to the branches of the fub- fcapular artery, going forward on the fide of the chert, and to the thoracic arteries. Thefe it is which, indu- rating from cancer of the bread, require fo frequently to be extirpated. Thefe glands of the axilla greatly inlarging clofe upon the artery and plexus of nerves, fo as to preclude the poflibility of an operation j they comprefs the veins and benumb the arm by preflure upon the nerves. When they fuppurate, they caufe a * “ They even receive abforbcnts from the cavity of the cheft and 1 have known them fwell from pleurify, peripneumony, and pulmonary confumption.” Cruickfhanks. Y3 condenfadon322 OF THE COURSE OF THE LYMPHATICS. condenfation of the cellular membrane which furrounds them, and in confequence, a compreflion of the axillary nerves and a fhrinking of the arm. When a wound or puncture, fuch as that which the ftudent of anatomy may receive in the directing room, has been made on the little or ring finger, the red lines which often appear in confequence of it, have taken the courfe of the ulnar edge of the fore arm, and termi- nated in the infide of the arm, near the condyle ; in fome inftances they have been continued even into the axilla. If venereal matter is abforbed at any point of the hand, near the little or ring finger, or by thofe fingers, the gland on the inner condyle of the humerus, or fome one in the courfe of the brachial artery, will mofi: probably inflame and form a bubo, and the furgeon will be aware of this abforption; but if the venereal matter be abforbed on the thumb or fore finger, it is poflible that it may not pafs into the glands until it comes into the infide of the clavicle. Thefe glands being out of our fight and feeling, the patient may be infedted without the furgeon fufpedl- ing.it *. LYMPHATICS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. Of the abforbents of the brain, little is known pre- cifely ; but none can deny the probability, next to an abfolute alfurance and demonllration, that the arteries, veins, and lymphatics bear the fame relations in the brain as in the other parts of the fyftem. Lymphatic glands * Qiuicklhanks, p>OF THE COURSE OF THE LYMPHATICS. 323 glands are obferved in the courfe of the interna! jugular vein, and even in the foramen caroticum, which are underftood to belong to the lymphatics of the brain. The lymphatics of the head are to be obferved in the courfe of the temporal and occipital arteries, which lafl: terminate in glands, feated behind the maftoid pro- cefs of the temporal bone. The lymphatics of the face have been obferved very numerous accompanying the facial and temporal arteries. But thofe from the internal parts of the face and nofe accompany the internal maxillary artery, and fall into the glands under the parotid, or in the courfe of that artery. Thefe glands are confequently liable to difeafe, in confequence of abforption of matter from the face, throat, and nofe, and their extirpation is a very hazardous operation. The lymphatics from the gums and jaws alfo accompany the internal maxillary artery, and emerge under the angle of the jaw; and fome of them joining the ex- ternal jugular vein, pafs through glands near the top of the Ihoulder. The lymphatic veifels from the tongue and parts about the os hyoides, take alfo the fame courfe. The glands about the face and jaws are of the greatelf importance to the furgeon, for no- thing is more common than the neceffity of cutting out indurated lymphatic glands. Thefe are fometimes miftaken for difeafed falivary glands ; now the falivary glands are rarely difeafed, the lymphatic glands often. And it will be a guide to the furgeon to inquire into the original caufe of the induration, (perhaps a fuppu- ration in the throat, nofe, or jaws) and to know pre- cifely the gland difeafed, its depth, and connexions. T 4 Qn3^4 0F THE COURSE OF THE LYMPHATICS. On the fide of the face, there are in general feveral fmall lymphatic glands on the buccinator rnufcle im- merfed in the furface of the parotid gland, under the zigomatic procefs. There are alfo glands to be care- fully noted, which lie under the tip of the parotid gland, where it extends behind the angle of the jaw, and alfo lying under the bafe of the jaw-bone, clofe to the fub-maxillary gland, and on the couife of the facial artery. The glands and absorbents of the neck are very numerous, and the latter form an intricate and beautiful plexus, feveral branches of which are to be obferved accompanying the external and internal jugular veins. Some of the glands lie immediately under the {kin, and in the cellular membrane, on the outer edge of the platifma myoides; many under that rnufcle, and in the courfe of the externa! jugular vein. But there are many feated deep, for the greater number accompany the internal carotid artery, and internal jugular vein or their branches. The lymphatics of the thyroid gland have been raifed by Mr. Cruickfhanks, by plunging a lancet at random into the fubftance of the gland, and blowing into it, or throwing quickfilver into its cellular membrane. The trunks of thefe lymphatics join the thoracic du£t on the left fide; and on the right fide the right trunk, juft as it is about to enter into the veins. OF THE TRUNKS OF THE ABSORBENT SYSTEM. The larger and proper trunk of the lymphatic fyf- tem, is generally called the thoracic duct, becaufe nOF THE COURSE OF THE LYMPHATICS. 325 it was firfl: obferved by Pecquet * to be a veflel which conveyed the chyle through the diaphragm, and which took its courfe through the whole length of the thorax, to throw its fluids into the veins near the heart. Be- fore his time the ladleals which were difcovered by Afellius f> were fuppofed to terminate in the liver. The firfl difcoverers of the thoracic duff, defcribed it as be- ginning from a pyriform bag, to which they gave the name of receptaculum chyli. In dogs, fifh, and the turtle, fuch a ciftern or bag may be obferved ; but in the human body nothing further is to be obferved than an irregular dilatation ofa this veflel, like a varicofe dif- tention, where it receives the acceflion of the la&eals from the root of the mefentery. The origin of this great trunk, called the thoracic trunk, is the union of the vef- fels, which running by the fide of the common iliac vef- fels, are derived from tire pelvis and lower extremities. Upon the third and fourth vertebras, and under the aorta this trunk is frequently joined by a large trunk of the ladleals, and then afcending, it receives the greater number, or the larger trunks of the ladteals. On the vertebrae of the loins, the thoracic du£t is by no means regular, either in its courfe or fize or fhape ; often it contracts, and again irregularly dilates, as it feems to emerge from under the aorta. On the uppermoft vertebra of the loins, the thoracic du6l lies under the right crus of the diaphragm, and then pafling the fep- tum with the aorta, it gets on the right anterior furface * In the year 1651. t In the year 1622.—About the year 1652, the other branches of the fyftem, which take their courfe to every part of the body, were difcovered by Rudbeck, Jolyffe, and Thom. Bartholin. of\ 326 OF THE COURSE OF THE LYMPHATICS. of the fpine, and runs up betwixt the aorta and the vena azygos; it then palfes under the arch of the aorta, and there it is confiderably enlarged, from the contracted date which it affumes in the thorax. Some- times it fplits, and again unites on the vertebrae of the back. Having pafled the arch of the aorta, it erodes to the left fide of the fpine, and we look for it under the pleura on the left fide of the cefophagus. The thoracic dud now emerges from the thorax, and lies deep in the lower part of the neck, behind the lower thyroid artery, and on the longus colli mufcle. It gets above the level of the fubclavean vein of the left fide, and here it receives the abforbents of the head and neck (of the left fide), and defeends again with a curve, and terminates in the angle of the union of the fubclavean vein and jugular vein of the left fide. Sometimes there are two thoracic duCts; but this is very rare. Sometimes the dud fplits near its termi- nation, and the two branches enter the veins feparately ; but, in general, when it fplits in this manner, it again unites before it terminates in the vein. There isconflantly a trunk in the anterior mediaflinum under the fternurn, as large as the thoracic duCl itfelf, which is fometimes inferted into the termination of the thoracic duCl; fometimes into the trunk of the abforb- ents of the left fide, to be immediately deferibed *. THE TRUNK OF THE ABSORBENTS OF THE RIGHT SIDE. The abforbents, from the right fide of the head and neck, and from the right arm, do not run acrofs the neck3 * Cruickfhanks.OF THE COURSE OF THE LYMPHATICS. 327 neck, to unite with the great trunk of the fyftem ; they have an equal opportunity of dropping their contents into the angle betwixt the right fubclavean and the jugular vein. Thefe veflels then uniting, form, a trunk which is little more than an inch, nay, fometimes not a quarter of an inch in length, but which has nearly as great a diameter as the proper trunk of the left fide. This vefiel lies upon the right fubclavean vein, and receives a very confiderable number of lymphatic vef- fels: not only does it receive the lymphatics, from the right fide of the head, thyroid gland, neck, &c. and the lymphatics of the arm ; but it receives alfo thofe from the right fide of the thorax and diaphragm, from the lungs of this fide, and from the parts fupplied by the mammary artery. Both in this and in the great trunk there are many valves. OF THE LACTEALS AND LYMPHATICS OF THE IN- TESTINAL CANAL. We have already remarked the great length of the inteftinal canal, the effect of the imperfect valvular ftru&ure, in extending the inner coat to a great length $ we have remarked alfo, that while every furface of the body fecretes, it is at the fame time an abforbing fur- face ; and finally, that while we chiefly contemplate the inteftinal canal, as imbibing and receiving the nourifhment, we muft not forget that it is alfoafecret- ing furface of the firft importance to the ceconomy. But at prefent we have merely to underftand that ftru&ure and organization, by which this canal abforbs tfle nutritious fluid the chyle from the food. In328 OF THE COURSE OF THE LYMPHATICS. In the firft place, as to the terms ladteals and lym- phatics, we prefume that the alpforbents throughout the whole length of the canal have the fame ftrudture and nfe ; and that the term lacteals has been fuggefted merely by the colour of the fluid, which is abforbed from the fmall inteflines. At one time thefe lafteals convey a milky fluid : at another a tranfparent fluid, like that which the ftomach and great inteflines in ge- neral abforb. The ladteals, as it is natural to fuppofe, were the firft difcovered of any part of the fyflem of abforbents ; or, at lead, they were firft underflood to form a part of an abforbing fyflem. For although Euflachius, a Roman anatomift, difcovered the thoracic dudt in the year 1563, yet he had very imperfect notions of its importance, and the difcovery was very little attended to, till after the difcovery of the lacteals by Afellius in 1622. This anatomift, in opening living animals, to obferve the motion of the diaphragm, obferved white filaments on the mefentery, which he took at firft for nerves; but, on pundturing them, and obferving them to difcharge their contents and to collapfe, he pro- 'claimed his difcovery of a new fet of veffels—a fourth kind *.. Had Afellius only chanced to obferve thefe vefiels, his merit would have been inconfiderable; but he alfo inveftigated and announced their peculiar office, viz. of abforbing the chyle from the inteflinal canal, and carrying it into the blood. For fome time, however, after the difcovery of the v^fa lactea, tile opinion of Hypocrates and Galen, * The nerves be’ng counted as veffels. V1Z»OF THE COURSE OF THE LYMPHATICS. 329 viz. that the mefenteric veins abforbed the chyle from the inteflines, and conveyed it to the liver, ftill prevailed. Even after the difcovery of the laCteals was known and received, a part of the old fyftem was ftill retained, and it was fuppofed that thofe veffels carried the fluids abforbed from the inteflines into the liver ; and that the fluids were there converted into blood. About twenty years after the difcovery of Afellius, Rudbeck, a Swede, and Bartholin, a Danifh anatornift, faw Afellius’s veffels in many other parts of the body ; difcovered the trunk of the fyftem, and fhowed that the lacleals did not pafs to the liver, but that they were branches of a great and diftincl fyftem ; they alfo de- monftrated the unity of this fyftem. We have feen from this fketch that the ancients fup- pofed the veins of the inteflines to be abforbents; and even after the difcovery of the la&eals, this idea has been detained bv foine of the belt modern anatomifts, and principally by Haller, and profdfor Mickel of Berlin. If the veins abforb from the furface of the inteflines, their doctrine would imply that they are alfo abforbents in general throughout the body. Although Bartholin, in his epiftle to Harvey, had afferted and given fufflcient proof that the mefenteric veins were not abforbents, yet the controverfy was left in fo un- decided a ftate, as to give occafion to the feries of experiments in the fchooi of the Hunters, which feems ' to have put the queftion to reft, in as far as it is con- nected with the lymphatic fyftem *. We have already mentioned that Afellius was em- ployed in opening the belly of a living dog, when he * See the veins in this volume. ^33© OF THE COURSE OF THE LYMPHATICS, i firft difcovered the ladteals. He perceived upon the furface of the inteftines and mefentery a great many fmall threads, which, at firft fight, he took for nerves, but foon difcovered his error ; and to diflipate his doubt, opened one of the larged white cords, when no fooner had the incifion been made, than he faw a fluid like milk or cream ifllie from the vefiels. Afellius fays he could not contain his joy at the fight of this phe- nomenon ; and turning himfelf to Alexander Tadinus, and the fenator Septalius, who were prefent, he invited them to enjoy the fpe&acle;—but his pleafure, he adds, was of fhort duration, for the dog died, and the vefiels difappeared. The natural and Ample narration of Afellius reprefents his aftonifhment, and gives an idea of the fenfation, which the anatomift experiences in the inftant of making an interefting difcovery *. Origin of the lacteals. When the young anatomical ftudent ties the mefenteric vefiels of an animal recently killed, and finds the lafteals gradually fweli; when he finds them turgid, if the animal has had a full meal, and if he has allowed time for the chyle to defcend into the fmall inteftines—and empty, or containing only a limpid fluid if the animal has wanted food ; he has fufficient proof that thefe are the vefiels deftined to abforb the nutritious fluids from the inteftines. Again, when coloured fluids are thrown into the inteftines of a living animal, and they are ab- forbed, he has fufficient proof of their free and ready communication with the inner furface of the gut; but the a&ual demonftration of the abforbing mouths of the * Sheldon, Portal. la&ealOF THE COURSE OE THE LYMPHATICS. 331 laCteal veflels is difficult and precarious. The difficulty arifes from thefe veflels being in general empty in the dead body; from the impoffibility of injecting them from trunk to branch in confequence of their valves ; and, ladly, from their orifices never being patent, except in a ftate of excitement. The anatomift mud therefore watch his opportunity when a man has been fuddenly cut off in health, and after a full meal. Then the villi of the inner coat may be feen turgid with chyle, and their ftructure may be examined. Perhaps the firft obfervations which were made upon this fubjeft by Lieberkuhn, are ftill the bed and the mod accu- rate. The villi are apparently of a cellular ftruCture, for although they are fiat or conical, or like filaments when collapfed; yet when minutely injected, and efpecially when they are full of chyle, they take a globular form, and are called the ampuhjljE. Their didention, in confequence of a minute injection of the veins or arteries, is probably owing to a cellular druc- ture (which they feem to have) into which the in- jection has extravafated. The mod probable account of the druCture of thefe ampululae is that this cellular druCture is a provifion for their inflation and ereftion. by the blood, when excited by the prefence of the chyle in the intedines; that this erection gives rigidity to the orifice of the laCteals ; and that the fird dep of abforption is by capillary attraction, while the further propulfion of the fluid in the extreme abforbents is by the contraction of their coats excited by the prefence of the fluid. Thus the abforption is not by an inor- ganized pore, but depending on excitement and aCtion. B ' Lieberkuhn’s332 OF THE COURSE OF THE LYMPHATICS. Lieberkuhn’s obfervations of the villi are the moffc accurate and curious. He obferves, that having opened and wafhed a portion of the fmall inteftine, its whole furface will be found covered with little pendulant conical membranes of the fifth part of a line in fize, and the bafes of which almofi: touch each other. From the vafcular membrane, to which they are attached, he obferves there is given off to each villus a branch of a ladleal, an artery, a vein, and a nerve. Fie found it difficult by injedlion to fhow both the vein and artery, the fluid paded fo eafily from the one into the other. He found that the extreme branch of the lafleal was diflended into a little veflel within the villus. And on the apex of which, with the microfcope, he fawone or fometimes feveral openings; with his glafles he ob- ferved the arteries to ramify on the globules or ampu- lulae and again collect into veins ; and he fuppofed that Hill more minute branches plunged into the centre. But he made a Hill more minute obfervation than this. Infulating a piece of intefline betwixt two rings, only leaving a fpace for the entrance of the ramification of the artery which fupplied it, he injected with a column, and examined its progrefs at the fame time with his micro- fcope. As he railed the tube, he faw the artery going in ferpentine turns to the villus, and the inje&ion returning by the veins; at lafl it paflfed into the ampula ladlea, dif- tended it and made its exit by the foramina. He prepared the villi in another way :—he inflated the ampulae, and kept them fo until they dried ; then he cut them with a razor, and found them cellular. This cellular (true- ture Cruickfhanks thinks is the common cellular fub- flance, uniting the vefiels of the villus. When this gentlemanOF THE COURSE OF THE LYMPHATICS. 333 gentleman examined the villi of a patient who died fuddenly after a meal, he obferved fome of them to be turgied with chyle, fo that nothing of the ramifications of the arteries or veinj were to be obferved ; the whole appeared as one white vefTel without any red lines, pores, or orifices ; others of the villi contained chyle in a lefs proportion ; and here the ramifications of the veins were numerous, and prevailed by their rednefs over the whitenefs of the villi. In fome hundred villi he faw the trunk of a ladteal forming by radiated branches, one branch in each villus. Mr. Cruickfhank and Dr. Hunter counted fifteen or twenty orifices in fome of the villi. Mr. Cruickfhank has remarked a deep and a fuperficial fet of la&eals on the inteftines $ but for this divifion there feems no neceflity. Deep in the coats the la&eals feem to accompany the blood veffels; but when they get more fuperficial, they take a courfe longitudinally on the canal, and turn devioufly, or after running a little way, take a hidden turn towards the mefentery. As the greater frequency of the valvulae conni- ventes in the jejunum, greatly encreafe the extent of its inner furface of the gut, and confequently give a greater extent of origin to the ladteals; and, as here the chyle mufl be in the greater quantity, fo the la&eals of this portion of the gut are larger and more nu- merous than in any other part of the extent of the canal. The ladleals do not attach themfelves to the veffels of the mefentery, but take a courfe individually, or forming plexus. Before they enter the mefenteric glands, they have been called lacteals of the firft order; You IV. Z when334 OF the course of the lymphatics, when they emerge from the firft into the fecond glands* fecondary lafteals, and glands of the fecond order. The manner of the entering and going out of glands is exaftly the fame with that of the lymphatics. The lafteals (or perhaps we fhould now fay the abforbents merely) of the great inteftines, are fmaller and lefs numerous than thofe of the fmall inteftines ; for al- though the inteftines be large, Hill their inner furface is by no means fo extenfive : befides the chyle is ab- forbea, and the contents altered before they have defcended into the great inteftines. Both Window and Haller, however, alfert, that they have feen chyle in the abforbents of the great inteftines. We know that the la&eals abforb chyle, when it is prefented to them : while at other times they abforb different fluids. That the abforbents of the great inteftines imbibe the fluids contents is evident, from the change produced on the faeces in their paffage. Copious and nutritious injections have been given, which did not return in the fame liquid form, and which have fupported the ftrength for fome time. Clyfters of turpentine give the urine a fmell of violets; and the Peruvean bark has cured fever, when given by the retlum. The abforbents of the ftomach form three divifions: one fet accompany the coronary artery and vein, and enter the glands on the leffer curvature and omentum minus. Thofe of the fecond fet accompany the left gaftro-epiploic artery, and are joined by the lymphatics of the omentum. The third pafs down upon the upper part of the duodenum following the arteria gaftrica dextra; thefe defcend to pafs into the fame clafs of glands, which receive the lymphatics of the livep.OF THE COURSE OF THE LYMPHATICS. 235 liver. They are joined in their courfe by the lym- phatics of the right fide of the omentum. The la&eals on the mefentery pafs from one gland to another till they form one or two large trunks only. Thefe accompany the trunk of the fuperior mefenteric artery, and run down on the right fide of the aorta, and join the thoracic du£t. The abforbents, from the rectum and colon of the left fide, pafs into their glands, or fometimes into the lumbar glands, and join the thoracic duft feparately ; thofe from the right fide of the colon join or mingle with the la&eals in the root of the me- fentery. OF THE REMAINING ABSORBENTS OF THE SOLID VISCERA. Wherethe lymphatics of the lower extremity defcend over the brim of the pelvis, they are joined by the abforbents of the bladder, veficulae feminales, and other parts in the pelvis:—fmall glands belonging to this let are attached to the internal iliac velfels. In the female, the lower fet of lymphatics, from the womb and vagina, alfo come by this route to join thofe of the lower extremity, or run mingling with them. Another fet of lymphatics of the womb pafs up with the fper- vefiels. The lymphatics of the testicle are very numerous. They come in diltindt fets from the body of the teflicle, from the epididimis, and from the tunica vaginalis: then reaching the cord, form fix or ten trunks, and run up direct to the abdominal ring '7 palling the ring, Z 2 they336 OF THE COURSE OF THE LYMPHATICS. \ they turn outward, and then pafs over the pfoas mufcle and into the lumbar glands. The lymphatics of the kidney are in two fets, fu- perficial and deep feated ; but the former are feldom to be obferved. Sometimes difeafe makes them dif- tindl. The internal lymphatics are demonflrated by blowing into the veins, or tying a ligature and kneading the fubflance of the kidney with the fingers; when they rife, they are feen attached to the emulgent vef- fels, and go to join the lumbar glands, or terminate in large lymphatics near the aorta. It is needlefs to repeat that the abforbents of the fpleen are deep and fuperficial,—for this arrangement is general. Emerging from the fpleen, the lymphatics pafs alongfl the fplenic veffels, and enter into glands attached to the fplenic artery in its whole courfe. In this courfe they receive the nbforbents from the pan- creas, and near the head of the pancreas, they are blended with thofe of the liver, and with them join the thoracic duel. . The lymphatics of the liver are the mofl eafily de- tected, and may be injecled to greater minutenefs, than in any other part of the body. Although they have many valves, yet they do not feem to clofe the veffels intirely, nor interrupt the mercury from palling from trunk to branch. The fuperhcial lymphatics, which are fo numerous that we may fometimes fee the mer- cury in them covering completely a confiderable fpace, have free communication with the internal fet of veffels which are alfo numerous and large. The principal route 'of the lymphatics of the upper furface of the \ - * 1 liver.OF THE COURSE OF THE LYMPHATICS. 337 liver, is by the broad ligament: thefe perforating the diaphragm join the trunk, which we have noticed under the (lernum, and in the anterior medeaftinum. It would appear, however, that thefe lymphatics of the broad or fufpenfory ligament, are by no means conftant and uniform in their courfe ; for fome times the run down towards the ladteal ligament, and perforate it there ; fome times they pafs down into the thoracic du£t while dill in the belly. Other lymphatics of great fize, run off from the convex furface of the liver upon the lateral ligaments, and pierce the diaphragm. The lymphatics on the lower or concave furface of the liver are more irregular than thofe of the convex fide. They unite with the deep lymphatics coming out of the porta alongfl with the vena portae, enter into the glands, which are feated on the trunk of that veflel, and join the thoracic du<5t near the root of the fuperior mefenteric artery. The lymphatics of the lungs are nearly as nume- rous as thofe of the liver; but, indeed, in regard to this expreffion, it is more in relation to the facility of inje&ing and demonstrating the lymphatics, than to their comparative number. For example, if the lym- phatics of the other vifcera could be injected to as great minutenefs as thofe of the liver, we Should ceafe to con- fider that vifcus as more abundantly fupplied than other parts. The fuperficial lymphatics of the lungs form areolae, and cover the furface almod completely. They take a courfe to the root of the lungs, where they are joined by the deep feated veflels, and together pafs into the bronchial glands, and here the lymphatics of both fides freely communicate. The33* OF THE COURSE OF THE LYMPHATICS. The glands of the lungs are conftantly found both before and behind the bifurcation of the trachea: often thefe gland are of a very dark colour ; nay, their fub- ftance is fometimes found refolved as it were into a fac of inky-like fluid. Upon the arch of the aorta, and the root of its great branches, are the cardiac glands, which receive the lymphatics from the heart. The ab- forbents of the heart are fmall, but very numerous, and their larger branches attach themfelves to the coronary veflfels. They then pafs to ' the cardiac glands, and mingling with thofe from the lungs, join the thoracic du&.Z 4 the APPENDIX; CONTAINING THE DESCRIPTION OF THE VENOUS SYSTEM AND THE ANATOMY OF .THE TEETH. CHAP. I. OF THE VEINS IN GENERAL. rr< 1 he veins are thofe veffels by which the blood car- ried outward by the arteries, is returned to the heart. The fyftem of the veins however is not fo fimple as that of the arteries, for while there are only two great arteries carrying the blood from the heart, viz. the aorta and the pulmonic artery, there are three great trunks of the veins, viz. the fuperior and inferior vena cava, the trunks of the great veins of the body; the pulmonic vein, which returns the blood to the heart from the circulation through the lungs ; and the vena portae, which collects the blood of the interlines, and conveys it to the liver. There are befides, a greater variety in the diftribution of the veins, than in that of the arteries. The French phyfiolcgifts have departed from the old method of Harvey, in explaining the circulation. He wifely took the heart as the centre of the fyftem, and defcribed the veffels going out from it, forming ihe two circulations, viz. .hroughthe body and throughAPPENDIX. 34° the lungs; but they have affumed the lungs as the centre j and the veins of the body, and the arteries of the lungs, they call fyjieme a fang noir, becaufe it con- tains the dark coloured blood ; and the pulmonic veins and the arterial fyftem of the body, they call fyjleme a fangrouge, becaufe it conveys blood of the bright vermi- lion colour. This conceit is perhaps admiffible, when intro- duced as an illuftration of the relation of the lungs to the body ; but in the general announcing of the fyftem, and confidered as a bafis of demonftration, it gives to a difficult fubjett an unufual degree of intricacy in the mind of the young ftudent : befides, the arteries and veins of the body, and the pulmonic artery and vein, have that ftri£t and mutual dependence in attion, which fnows how improper and how unnatural it is to make this change, and to feparate them in explaining the ge- neral fyftem. At all events, let thofe who adopt this novelty ceafe to fpeak of the two circulations, for al- though in regard to the hearty there are two circula- tions, yet as the movement of the blood refpefts the lungs, there is only one. By this divifion, the blood returning from the body and carried into the lungs, cannot be called a circulation ; but only when it has pafled through the lungs, and returned to the fame point of its courfe through the body. GENERAL CHARACTER OF THE VEINS. The capa- city of the veins, is larger than that of the arteries ; the coats thinner but ftronger comparatively, and admit- ting of much dilatation. The coats of the lefler veins, arecomparatively ftronger than thofe of the larger ones, and the veins of the lower extremity much thicker and ftronger,341 APPENDIX. Wronger than in the upper parts of the body, as they bear a higher column of blood. The veins are tranf- parent and the blood is feen through their coats. There can be properly diftinguilhed, only two coats in the veins : the outer coat, which is floculent and cellular without, to conneft with the furroundingparts, fmoother and more compact within, where it is united with the inner coat. In it are ramified the vafa vaforum ; and a fibrous ftrufture is to be obferved in fome of the larger and fuperficial trunks ; the ftriae or fibres run- ning longitudinally. The inner coat is firm and compact and intimately united to the other ; it is fmooth, flex- ible, and formed into valves in various parts. In all the larger veins, excepting thofe of the vif- cera of the abdomen, and thofe of the lungs and brain, there are valves : thefe valves confilt of the inner coat, forming folds like a femilunar curtain, hung acrofs the caliber of the vein ; but at the fame time attached fo obliquely to the fide of the vein, that they prefent a facculated membrane to receive the refluent blood. The loofe margin of the valve is fomewhat fironger than the other part, and betwixt the duplicature fome fplendid little filaments are fometimes obferved. Each valve confifts in general, of two femilunar membranes, the margins of which, falling together, prevent the blood from palling retrograde ; but they yield and col- lapfe to the fide of the vein by the current of blood flowing towards the heart. As the veins are provided with valves only where they are expofed to occafional preffure, and particularly to the compreffion of the muf- cles ; their chief ufe would feem to be, to prevent the retrograde movement of the blood, from the occafional compreffionappendix. 342 compreffion of the veins ; but no doubt, they at the fame time fupport the column of blood, as in the lower extremities: and when thofe veins fuffer diftention by difeafe, a great aggravation is, that the valves lofe their action, become too fmall to clofe the dilated vein, and the whole column of blood prefles upon the veins of the legs. The commencement of the minute branches of the veins, is from the extreme ramifications of the arteries; they are continuous, and perpetuate the motion of the blood in that courfe which is called the circulation. In contemplating the capillary tiffue of vefiels, the moft ftriking circumftance is, the predominance of the dark venous ramifications : and in general, two fets of veins will even in thefe minute ramifications, be ob- ferved ; one fuperficial, the other more intimately blended with thefe minute ramifications of the arteries ; but in the internal parts of the body, and particularly the vifcera, the veins uniformly accompany the rami- fications of the arteries, and in the folid vifcera, a denfe cellular membrane gives promifcuous lodgement, to both fets of vefiels. In the extremities and head, indeed every where but in the vifcera, the veins form two diftinft fets; the deep and the fuperficial veins : the deep veins accompa- nying the arteries; and the fubcutaneous veins, which emerge from the compreffion of the mufcles, and run above the fafcia. The union betwixt the branches of the veins, is very frequent, not only betwixt the veins, ramifying in the fame plane in fo much as to make them a mere n twork ; but alfo betwixt the deep and the fuperficial fet cf veins: fuch are the venae emifiariae ofAPPENDIX. 343 of the fcull ; the free communications betwixt the ex- ternal and internal jugular vein, betwixt the deep and fuperficial veins of the arm, &c. When in bleeding, the blood flows from the vein of the arm, accelerated by the woiking of the mufcles, the blood efcapes by the anaflomofis, from the compreffion of the mufcles, and fills the fuperficial veins; but the increafe of the jet of blood, is more the effect of the fwelling of the mufcles, caufing the fafcia to comprefs the veins of the fore arm. In the dead body the veins are fiat, but when dif- tended, they refume the cylindrical figure which they pofiefied in the living body: yet they are in general of the cylindrical figure, for a very little way only, ow- ing to the irregular dilatations by the fide of the valves, or by the frequent union of their branches. The manner in which the branches join the trunk, has a pe- culiarity which always dillinguifhes it from the ramifi- cations of arteries : the arteries branch off at a direct and acute angle, the veins in a direction more re- moved from the courfe of the trunk, and in general with a curve or fhoulder. In infancy and youth, the veins are little turgid, and especially the cutaneous veins, are fo firmly em- braced by the elafiic fkin and cellular membrane, that they have a lefs degree of prominency than in more advanced years. In old age, the veins are enlarged, and rife turgid on the furface, and the internal veins aifo become enlarged and varicofe. 1 do not confider this change in the vafcular fyflem, 3s the efFetl of mere diftention, or of the enlargement of the veins from the long-continued afition of the arteries; but as a ne- ceflaryAPPENDIX. 344 ceffary change in the proportionate diftribution of the blood, which is preceded or accompanied with other peculiarities, the character of old age. When we con- fider the great proportion of the veins in fize, over the arteries, we mull conclude that the blood flows but llowly in the venotis fyftem : that from the narrow- nefs of the trunks of the veins near the heart, the blood mull; be accelerated, as it approaches the heart, and that receiving the impulfe from the ventricle, it muft take a rapid courfe through the arteries, until again approaching the extreme branches of the arteries and palling into the veins, its motion becomes more languid and flow. In youth, as the fize of the veins is not in fo great a proportion to the arteries, as in ad- vanced life ; the blood in a young perfon, mult be in more rapid and quick circulation : but in old age, ill proportion to the largenefs of the veins and the accu- mulation of blood in them, the quantity of blood moving llowly through the venous fyftem, and al- moll ftagnant in the dilated veins and finufes, is very great; it moves but llowly and progreflively on towards the centre of the circulation ; and upon the whole, the blood in old people, moves lefs brilkly through the vef- fels, and the proportionate quantity immediately under the influence of the arterial fyftem, is lefs than in youth. There is no pulfation to be obferved in the veins, but what they receive laterally from the contiguous ar- teiies. There is no pulfation in the veins, becaufe they are removed from the heart ; becaufe they do not re- ceive the Ihock of the heart’s a&ion in their trunk, but only by their widely fpread branches ; becaufe the con- tractionAPPENDIX. 345 tra&ion of the heart, and of the arteries fo alternate with each other, in fuch a manner as to keep up a perpe- tual and uniform dream of blood into the veins ; where- as the pulfation in the arteries is owing to the fudden and interrupted contra&ion of the heart. In this general account of the venous fyftem, it re- mains only to fpeak of the fubjedt of abforption. Be- fore the fuite of experiments made on this fubjedl by Mr. Hunter, a vague notion was entertained that the veins were abforbents; but about that time*1, the doctrine that lymphatics are abforbents having been edablHhed, the opinion that the red veins were alfo ab- forbents, wasfird quedioned, and finally confuted, at lead in the opinion of mod phyfiologids. The chief argument to fhow that veins, arifing from cavities, particularly from the intedines, acted as abforbents, was, that fome anatomids faid they had feen white chyle in the blood taken from the mefenteric veins. It was however foon obferved that the ferum of the blood, taken from the veins of the arm, was fome- times white, which mud arife from fome other caufe than the abforption of chyle f. The experiments of Mr. John Hunter, proved that there is no abforption of fluid, from aliment contained in the intedinal canal, by the veins of the mefentery, while the lacteals were rapidly abforbing. Emptying a portion of the gut, and the veins of their blood in a living animal, he poured milk into the intefline. The veins remained empty, and without a drop of the milk finding its way into them, while the ladteals became * 1758. f See Hewfon Exper. EfTays and Lymphatic Syftem. tingedAPPENDIX. 34<5 tinged with it. In another experiment, leaving the arteries and veins of the mefentery free, and the circu- lation through them perfect; ftill no white fluid could be difcovered, tinging the ftream of blood in the veins. Neither did preflure upon the gut, in any inftance force the fluid of the inteftines into the veins. — He repeated and varied thefe experiments, fo as to (how in a very fatisfaftory manner, that chyle, or the fluid of the inteftines, never is absorbed by the veins. Yet I muft fay that thefe experiments .are ftill unfatisfaftory, as they regard the general dodtrine of abforption by the veins: in the inteftines there Is a peculiar fet of veflels evidently deftined to the abforp- tion of the chyle and of the fluids of the cavity ; but there remains a queftion which will not be eafily deter- mined : do not the veins throughout the body refume a part of that fubftance, or of thofe qualities, which are depoftted or bellowed by the arteries ?—We are aflured that in the circulation of the blood through the lungs, and in the extremities of the pulmonic veins, there is an imbibing or abforption : and in the veins of the placenta, there is not only an abforption fimilar to what takes place in the extreme branches of the pulmonic circulation, but the matter and fubftance which goes to the nourifhment of the foetus, is imbibed from the maternal circulation *. So by the veflels in the mem- brane of the chick in ovo, there is abforbed that * Dr. Hunter, Hewfcn, See, fay that it Is probable there are many fmall lymphatics in the placenta, which open into the branches of the veins, and do not take -a courie along the cord. This is very improbable, and has no fupport from analogy. which347 APPENDIX. ■which being carried to the chick, beftows nourifhment and encreafe. For my own part, I cannot but fuppofe that, while the lymphatics abforb the loofe fluids which have been thrown out on furfaces, or into cavities—the veins receive part of what is depofited from the arteries; but, which is not fo perfectly feparated from the influ- ence of the circulating fyftem, as that which the lym- phatics receive ; and that there are certain lefs pal- pable, and perhaps gafeous fluids, which they imbibe in thecourfe of the circulation by an affinity of the venous blood, fimilar to the attraction which takes place in the lungs. We muff at the fame time acknowledge, that the conclufions made in favour of abforption by veins, from experiments upon the dead body, are falacious, and have no weight.—It is feldom we can determine whether minute injections have taken a courfe by a natural, or by a forced paflage : neither are the ex- periments of fome of the older phyfiologifls more fatif- faftory or conclufive. Lower affirmed that, by throwing a ligature on the inferior cava of a dog, he produced alcites. He tied the jugular veins of a dog, and the head became dropfical. Hewfon repeated thefe experiments, but without the fame refult. And if the tying of the veins had always produced oedema or dropfy, the experiment would have proved nothing more than is already eftablifhed by the very common occurrence of oedema of the legs, from the preflure of the wombon theiliac veins, or a tumor in the groin, or in the pelvis. Nov/ in thefe inflances the comprdfion of the vein does nothing more than caufe a difficult circulation of the blood, from the extreme arteries into 5 the34§ APPENDIX. the veins, and confequently a greater profufion of the difcharge into the cellular texture by the ferous arteries. OF THE VEINS, BRANCHES OF THE SUPERIOR VENA CAVA. The fuperior vena cava, or the defcending cava, is the fuperior trunk of the venous fyftem; which re- ceives the veins of the head, neck, and arms, and throws the blood dire&ly into the great right finus, or auricle of the heart. SECTION I, OF THE VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. The anterior facial vein *. The facial, or ante- rior facial vein, runs down obliquely from the inner can- thus of the eye, towards the angle of the lower jaw-bone. Here uniting with the temporal vein, it forms the ex- ternal jugular vein. The mod remarkable branches of veins which affifl in forming the facial vein, are the frontal veins ; which receive the blood from the forehead and frontal portion of the occipito-frontalis mufcle, and the ophthalmic vein, which is one of the emilfarise, and comes from the cavernous linus through the orbit.—In its courfe down the cheek, the facial vein receives the feveral cutaneous branches of • Facial vein ; V. Angular is ; V. Triangularis. veins,349 APPENDIX. rooniy A a VoL. IV. Veins from the furrounding parts : but which have in reality no fuch importance as to require defcription *. The posterior facial vein; or, great tem- poral vein.—This vein defcends from the temple be- fore the ear, through, or under the mafs of the parotid gland, and behind the angle of the lower jiw. This pofterior vein receives thofe branches which are the proper temporal veins, and which are four in number, and defcend upon the fide of the head f; and thofe which anfwer to the fubmaxillary artery, and alfo the vena tranfverfa faciei, and the auricular veins. Finally into fome of the deep branches of this vein J the blood enters from the veins accompanying the arteria meningea. The pofterior facial vain, uni- ting with the anterior one, forms a common trunk, which in general lies over the divifion of the carotid artery, EXTERNAL JUGULAR VEINS. The external jugular vein takes a courfe obliquely down the neck, and acrofs the middle of the maftoid mufcle. It lies under the fibres of the platyfma myoides mufcle, and drops either into the fubclavean vain, or into the internal jugular vein. Sometimes there are two external jugular veins on each fide; more corn- 8 Vena (forfaits tiafi, fupcrior et inferior— Vena palpebral's inferior ex- terna et interna -Vena alaris nafi - Vena lalialcs magneet mine ret, &c. Vena luccales, &c. f Being in two fets, the deep, and fuperficial. J Vise. Vena Pterygoidcc.3 SO APPENDIX. monly there are two branches high in the neck, froni the anterior and pofterior facial veins, which unite about the middle of it. When they are double they have this courfe ; the anterior and £tfter/to/jugular vein, may be faid to begin from the anterior facial vein; it then receives the fubmental vein, which comes in un- ifier the bafe of the lower jaw—the ranine veins alfo, and veins from the glands under th? jaw join it here: where it is before the maftoid mufcle, it forms free communications with the internal jugular veins; and here alfo, it receives veins from the fide of the throat *. Almofi: all the ramifications of veins, which in one fubjedt unite to the external jugular vein, and which come from the face and throat, do in others fink down into the internal jugular vein. Sometimes the anterior and external jugular veins join the internal jugular vein ; fometimes the fub- clavean vein. The pofierior external jugular vein is formed chiefly by the temporal vein, or, poflerior facial vein, which comes down from under the parotid gland ; it is then joined by the occipital veins f, a little lower by the cer- vical veins, and laftly on the lower part of the neck it receives the mufcular branches from the ffefh of the fhoulder ; it then finks into the fubclavean veins. Of the thyroid veins.—The thyroid gland has two fets of veins, as it has of arteries ; the fuperior thy- * Viz. The fuperior thyroid veins, and the deep laryngeal reins. f Thefe communicate with the vertebral veins, and through the pOitcrior maftoid foramen with the lateral iinus - raidA 2 The APPENDIX. 35s Told Veins carry back the blood from the mufcles or the fore-part of the throat, from the larynx, from the fub- ftance of the thyroid gland, and from the neighbour- ing part of the trachea and: pharynx, and even from the fauces. Sometimes thefe thyroid veins enuer the ex- ternal jugular vein ; fometimes they defcend upon the neck, taking the name of guttural veins; they unite themfelves with the interna! jugular vein. The lower thyroid veins.—'Come from the lower part of the thyroid gland, and defcend upon the fore-part of the trachea, and enter the fubclavean; or, more generally, the great, or internal jugular veins. Of the internal jugular vein.-—The inter- nal jugular vein is formed by the conflux of the feveral great and pofterior fmufes of the dura mater into the lateral Anus, which coming out by the foramen laceruni poflerius of the bafis cranii, ceafes to be conflrifted into the triangular fhape, and takes the form and pecu- liarities of a vein. From this foramen, common to the temporal and occipital bone, the jugular vein defcenas obliquely forward and downward, becoming from its deep fituauon fomewhat more fuperficial, but in all its extent protefted by the fterno-cleido-maftoideus mufcle ; and it paflfes under the omo^hyoideus mufcle. The internal jugular vein is very irregular in its form ; being fometimes much contrafted under the angle of the jaw ; bulging and much enlarged, or rather capa- ble of being much diftended in the middle of the neck; and again contrafted before it joins the fubclaveans. The carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, and the par vagum lie together in the fame flneath of loofe cel- lular membrane.APPENDIX. 35* The internal jugular vein receives thefe communi- cations and branches; behind the angle of the lower jaw, a branch of communication, generally goes down from the pofterior facial vein, and often it is joined by the internal maxillary vein : under the jaw, it either forms free communications with the beginning of the external jugular vein, or it receives the ranine and gut- tural veins; at all events, there is a branch from the fide of the throat, and the mufcles of the os hyoides which pafles into the internal jugular vein. From under the back part of the maftoideus mufcle, it receives branches from the occipital veins, and forms communications with the vertebral veins: near its termination the great jugular vein receives the guttural and lower thyroid veins. Of the vertebral veins.—There is difficulty in affigning origins to thefe veins, for they are rather like a chain of communication ; they run in the holes of the tranfverfe apoph'yfis of the cervical vertebra?, and furround the procefles with areolae. Firft a com- munication is formed with the great lateral finus, then they receive the flat finufes from under the dura mater, covering the cuniform procefs of the occipital bone, (the bafilar finufes) and as they defcend they form tranfverfe communications, which receive the branches of that chain of inofculations, which runs down upon the fpinal marrow. The vertebral veins, in their defcent, fend out divifions’which run down upon the outfide of the canal, and receive branches of veins from the mufcles on the fore part of the vertebrae, and fome of the proper cervical veins from behind. The vena35: APPENDIX. vena eervicalis coming from the fide of the neck, unites with the vertebral vein near its termination, in the back part of the fubclavean, or fometimes in the axillary vein. SECTION II. OF THE VEINS OF THE ARM. The veins of the arm are in two fets, the venae co- mites ; and the external or fubcutaneous veins, being thofe without the fafcia, and not fubjeft to the com- preflion of the mufcles. Of thefe, the latter are the more important and require a particular defcription. On the palm of the hand, the veins are few and fmall, becaufe they are there fubjedl to comprefiion in the frequent grafping of the hand ; but on the back of the hands and fingers, the veins are numerous and large. The veins creeping along the fingers, make a remarkable inofculation on the back of rhe firfi pha- langes, and then palling in the interfaces of the knuckles, form a great and irregular plexus on the back of the hand *: the principal branch of whicn fome- times takes the form of an arch -f-. The plexus of veins irom the back of the hand is continued over the back of the wrift; when fome of the larger branches, after plavmg over the heads of rhe radius and ulna, take a courfe, the one on the lower, nnd the other over the upper edge of the arm, whilit the ® Plexus dorfalis \nanus. f Arcus venofus dorfalis. A a 3 back354 APPENDIX, back of the arm is left without any remarkable veins > taking their courfe there. The veins on the back of the hand have nerves in- termingling with them, viz. branches of the ulnar nerve, and the extreme branches of the mufcular fpi- ral nerve: fo that it is a great mi hake to fuppofe that bleeding in the back of the hand might be fubftituted with advantage for the common operation in the bend of the arm. Vena cephaliga.—The vein of the back of the thumb running into a trunk, which takes a courfe over the outfi.de of the wrift, is called cephaliga polli- cis. From this vein and the divilion of the plexus of the back of the hand, a confiderable trunk is generally formed-, which takes its courfe on the radial edge of the arm, and is called cephalica minor, or radia- :lis externa. This vein in its tract over the extern- for radialis, and the fupinator longus, has many la- teral communications, particularly with the median vein. This vein, now joined by the median cephalic, and rifing upon the outfide of the humerus, is the great cephalic vein ; and it pafles, firlt betwixt the biceps and triceps brachii, and then betwixt the deltoides and pec- toralis major mufcles. Several fmall cutaneous veins play over the belly of the biceps mufcle, and commu- nicate with the bafilic vein ; a little below the external condyle of the os humeri, the cephalic vein detaches a branch which afcends betwixt the brachialis internum and fupinator longus, and which afterwards forms inofculations with the bafilic vein, on the back of the arm. Ths355 APPENDIX. The great cephalic vein pafllng up betwixt the ten- dons of the pedforalis major and the deltoid mufcles, finks into the axilla and joins the axillary vein. The lesser cephalic is a vein which runs up betwixt the pectoral and deltoid mufcles, and finks generally into the fubclavean vein: fometiines it joins the ex- ternal jugular vein. Vena basilic a*. We trace the origin of the ba- fdic vein from thofe veins which, being continued from the plexus, on the back of the hand, take their courfe over the lower head of the ulna. (A confpicuous branch of thefe veins, from the little finger, was cal- led fahatella by the ancients). From this origin, the bah lie vein takes a fpiral courfe on the ulnar edge of the fore arm, foinetimes in one great trunk, oftener in two, fometimes in a plexus of veins ; here it may be called ulnaris supi.rficialis, or cubitalis in- terna. This vein, now rifmg before the inner con- dyle of the humerus, pafles on the inner margin of the biceps .flexor mufcle ; here it forms very free and numerous connections with the internalor bracheal vein; the fatellites and cephalica, now palling up, until it finks under the tendon of the peCtoral mufcle, it joins the axillary vein. The great bafilic vein, or the great trunk, after it has afeended above the elbow, and received the me- dian bafilic, is joined by feveral deep branches of veins, as thole which accompany the bracheal a tery, called fatelhtes or comites, a vein which is called pro- * Brachialis The ancients termed the bafilic vein of the right, arm, the vein of the liver, or vena hepatica brachii, and that of the left, the vena f’pleniea brachii. A a 4 funda356 APPENDIX. funda brachli; and dill nearer its determination, it receives the addition of the vena fubhwneralis or arti- cularis, and the vena fcapulares, viz. thofe anfwering to the arteries of that name. Vena median a major This is a vein which runs up the middle of the fore arm, beginning from the plexus of veins, which play over the flexor ten- dons, and come from the ball of the thumb; it is a vein which is very irregular, being fometimes double, and fometimes rather in the form of a plexus, than to be confidered as a regular trunk ; often it is particu- larly fliort, and can be confidered as a trunk, only for a few inches as it approaches the bend of the arm ; not unfrequently it is intircly wanting, and as if annihilated by the preponderance of the branches of the cephalic or bafilic vein. But to take the more common courfe, as an example, when it has afcended on the middle of the fore arm, near to the bend of the arm it di- vides ; one branch pafles obliquely outward, and joins the cephalic vein, the other inwards and unites with the bafilic vein ; the firfh, is of courfe the median ce- phalic vein, the feccpd, the mediae? basilic VEIN. Thefe are the two branches which the furgeon molf commonl) felefts for bleeding. 4r°und the median ce- phalic, the cutaneous nerves play more profuftly, and under the median bafilic vein the humeral artery pafles. It is by the aukward plunging of the lancet into the median bafilic, that the country bleeder fa frequently produces the aneurifm of the artery ; but the dreadful fymptoms following the pricking of the * Vena Media, vena fuberf.cialis communis. nerve*APPEND'X. 357 serve, are more frequently produced by bleeding in the median cephalic j cafes however occur of the pricking of the nerves, while bleeding in the median bafijic vein Axilla y vein,—The trunk of the veins of the arm paffes through the axilla, until it arrives betwixt the fir ft rib and clavicle, under the name of axillaris. Here lying by the fide of the artery, it receives many mufcuiar branches from the flefh of the IhoulJer, the external and internal fcapular veins, and the thoracic veins ; in general where if palfes by the head of the humerus it receives the cephalic vein. Subclaviam veins.—The axillary vein continuing its progrcfs over the firft rib, becomes the fubclavean vein; on the right fide the vein is Ifiorter, and de- fcends moie obliquely ; on the left it is longer, of courfe lefi, oblique, but (till its direction is downward ; palling before the trachea, and the branches of the arch of the aorta, it joins the lubclavean of the right fide, and together they form the fuperior cava: the lubcla- vtan vein receives thefe veins, a vein from the fhoul- der and lower part of the neck, the vertebral vein, with fome leffer plexus of veins descending from the neck, the internal jugular vein (and in the angle of fhe union of thefe the thoracic duft), and laftly the thyroid veins. From below they receive the lelfer in- tefngl fhpracip veins. SECT.358 APPENDIX. SECTION III. THE SUPERIOR VENA CAVA, THE VENA AZYGOS, AN© LESSER VEINS OF THE THORAX. The fuperior vena cava is the trunk of all the veins of the head, neck, arms, and of the parts in the thorax ; foon after it is formed by the fubclavean veins, it is joined by the vena azygos, and receiving the inter- nal mammary veins and the ven.® thymic.® and FtRJCARD.AC branches, the i ntercostal and bron- chial veins, it defcends into the pericardium, and di- lates or opens into the right finus or auricle. Vena azygcs*. This is the principal vein of the thorax, and chiefly of the walls of the thorax. It is obferved to take its origin upon the vertebras of the loins from fome of the lumbar veins, or by inofcula- tions with the renal fperinatic or leffer branches of the abdominal cava, receiving the fir ft and fecond 'lumbar veins, as in its afcent in the thorax, it receives' the in- tercoftal veins on either fide j- ; afcending betwixt the crura of thedi pbragm, and by the fide of the aorta, it fometimes receives the lower phrenic veins ; in the tho- rax lying on the right fide of the bodies of the vertebrae, and before the intercoftal arreries, it receivesthe bron- chial veins from the root of the lungs, and from the trachea it receives the veins of the poflerior mediaf- * Sine pari. •f We except Tome of the veins fro n the interflices of the higher ribs, particularly on the right fide, widen eni.er the iubclavean vein. tinum359 APPENDIX. tmum and eefophagus; through the Intercoftal veins, St communicates with the external and internal mam- mary veins, and with the venal circles of the fpinal marrow. Upon the third vertebra, the azygos vein feparates from the ft ine, and with an arch, and bending round the root of the lungs, it opens into the fuperior cava, juft where it is about to enter the pericardium : where St opens into the great vein, it is guarded by a valve. This vein however, like mod others, has confider- able variety, and does not always merit the name of azygos, for fometimes it is double, a divifion afcending son the left fide of the fpine, and uniting with the branch of the other fide, juft as it is about to enter Into the fuperior cava. Of the lesser veins in the thorax.—The ve- nal mammari ae take a courfe by the fide of the in- ternal mammary artery, and require no defcription. Like the arteries, they fpread their branches on the muf- cles of the belly,- and communicate with the diaphrag- matic and lumbar and epigaftric veins. The left mam- mary vein terminates in the left fubclavean vein, the yight in the fuperior vena cava. The venae thymic^ enter, either into the union of the fubclavean veins, or they enter into the guttu- ral veins, or the internal mammary veins. The pericardiac veins gather their branches from the pericardium, from the aorta, trachea and lymphatic glands; they fend down branches by the fide of the phrenic nerve, which inofculate with the ■v^'ns of the diaphragm ; they enter the internal mam- mary360 APPENDIX. mary vein, or the fuperior cava, or the terminations of the right fubclavean. The superior intercostal veins.—The right and left intercoftal veins differ in their fize and diftri- bution ; the right is fmall, and receives only one or two of the upper intercoftal veins, which do not enter into the azygos vein. The vein of the left fide be- gins even fo low as the interftice of the feventh rib ; it receives branches from the pleura, pericardium and lungs (viz. the broncheal veins) and from the cefopha- gusj they enter the fubclavean veins.APPENDIX. 361 CHAP. II. ©F THE VEINS WHICH UNITE TO FORM THE INFERIOR VENA CAVA. The inferior vena cava receives the veins of the lower extremities, the hvpogaftric and abdominal veins, and the veins of the vifcera of the abdomen ; but thofe of the membraneous contents of the abdomen are received by it only indirectly, and through the circulation of the liver. OF THE VEINS OF THE LEG AND THIGH. We have obferved that the veins of the extremities are in two fers; the deep and fuperficial. In the leg and thigh the deep-feated veins accompany the arteries, and receive the fame name: the cutaneous veins are the faphena major and minor. Saphena major*.—A large and beautiful plexus of veins is formed on the lore part of the foot, and com- ing from the back of the toes, and outfide of the foot. Two principal veins arife from the arch which thefe form: one takes the courfe behind the inner ancle, and is the faphena major; the other pafles over the outer ancle, and forms the faphena minor. * Saphena magna, interna. The352 APPENDIX. The great faphena may be traced from the great toe# from the infide of the foot, and behind the ancle: it receives one or two branches from the foie of the foot. Sometimes the principal branch palfes behind the lower head of the tibia, fometimes before it, or it forms circles here: a little above the ancle a vein from the middle of the metatarfal arch comes obliquely over the tendon of the tibialis anticus and joins it. The faphena, now a confiderable trunk, runs up the leg before the inner margin of the belly of the galtroc- nemius mufcle, and on the inner judge of the tibia. In thisicourfe it receives numerous cutaneous branches, and backward, over the belly of the mufcies, it forms in.- ofculations with the lelfer faphena. From the infide of the leg the trunk afcends on the infide of the knee, where it receives feveral branches, coming round the joint, and over the head of the tibia. Now palling fomewhat obliquely, it afcends upon the thigh, and, at the fame time, turns from the infide to the fore part of the thigh. In the thigh the great faphena receives many branches, and is not always a fingle vein: for fome- times the branches collecting form a fmall trunk,, run- ning collateral to the greater vein, and which joins it in the groin. In all this courfe the faphena vein is fu- perficial and lies imbedded in the cutaneous fat; with but a very flight and imperfect apponeurofis inclofmg it; while it is external to the proper fafcia of the leg and thigh. As it afcends upon the thigh, however, it does not dive fuddenly under the fafcia "f but is gradually enveloped and embraced by the con- denfed cellular membrane and fafcia. When363 APPENDIX. When It was more the pra&ice than at prefent to bleed in the ancle, the faphena major was the vein fe- lefted: but as in all the courfe of the vein, from the great toe to the knee, it is connefled with the nerve which bears its name, there are not wanting inftances of * thofebad effects from pricking of the nerve, which not unfrequently follow the bleeding in the arm. Saphena minor*. This vein arifes from the plexus on the outfide of the dorfum pedis : it runs over the cuter ancle and above the fafcia, covering the tendons of the peronei mufcles. Here receiving many branches and forming frequent deep inofculations, it mounts on the outfide of the vagina or fafcia, which covers the back of the leg, until arriving betwixt the hamfiring tendons it finks into the popliteal hollow, terminating in the popliteal vein. The other veins of the lower extremity which ac- company the arteries in their courfe, need little defcrip- tion. Anterior tibial vein.—The veins accompanying the anterior tibial artery form many inofculations, and when minutely inje&ed, almofl conceal the artery. They are the anterior tibial veins and only unite into a trunk, where perforating the interoffeous ligament it joins the popliteal vein. Posterior tibial vein.—In the foie of the foot we have the external and internal plantar veins, which uniting into trunks, accompany the artery be- hind the inner ancle. In its courfe betwixt the foleus and the tibialis amicus mufcles, it cannot be called the * Vena faphena parva, externa. pofleriorAPPENDIX. 36* pofterior tibia! vein ; for it is a mere net-work of veins furrounding the pofterior tibial artery. It receives-, near its termination, a branch called Suralis, front the gaftrocnemii and foleus: it terminates in the pop- liteal vein. The Ven,® Percne.e are the vena; comites by the tibial artery, and are two or three in number. All thefe veins have free inofculations with each other. The Popliteal vein.—This vein is formed by the three divifions of deep veins accompanying the arteries of the leg, and the faphena minor. It lies more fuperficial than the artery, and feems to cling round it. As it afcends, however, it twifts round the artery, the artery being neared the bone—a little above the joint it receives the lelfer faphena. This vein, perforating the tendon of the triceps, comes to the fore part of the thigh, ftill united to the artery : it is now the crural vein. As it afcends it gets from behind the artery, fo that in the groin it lies nearer the pubes than the artery does: oppofite the trochanter minor it receives the internal and external circumflex veins, and the Profunda Femoris. About an inch below Powpart’s ligament the crural vein re- ceives the faphena major, and the fmall external pudic veins. External iliac vein.—The femoral vein lying on the infide of the artery or nearer the pubis, enters the abdomen under the femoral ligament, and pafling by the fide of the Pfoas mufcle becomes the external iliac vein. It receives feveral lelfer veins juft within the ligament particularly the epigallric vein from the mufcles and integuments of the belly, and the veins accompanying 8 theAPPENDIX. 365 the arteria circumflexa ilii. The external iliac vein is joined by the hypogastric vein which afcends from the pelvis. It requires no minute defcription ; it anfwers to the diftribution of the hypogaftric artery. This which is the internal iliac joining the trunk from the thigh forms the common iliac vein. Vena cava abdominalis *.—A little lower than the bifurcation of the aorta, the right and left common iliac veins unite. By this union they form the vena cava. This vein afcends upon the right of the aorta, It receives fewer branches than would naturally be imagined, be- caufe the veins of the vifcera take their courfe by the porta into the liver. It receives the lumbar veins the fpermatic veins, the renal, fuper-renal, and phrenic, veins. Paffing upward it is received into its appropriate foffa in the liver, and feceding a little from the fpine it receives the ven^e cavje hepatic^e and perforates the diaphragm ; entering the pericardium it expands into the great finus, or right auricle of the heart. Renal VEiNsf.—Thefe veins are Iefs irregular than the arteries of the kidney, which relation of the veins and arteries is uncommon. From the relative fituation of the kidneys to the cava it is evident that the right vein muft be lhort $ the left comparatively longer and taking a courfe from the kidney over the aorta J. Supra-renal veins.—-Thefe little veins are like the arteries in their courfe. The right one enters fome- * Vena Cava inferior. f Emulgent veins. f The Renal veins however fometimes vary in their number, the right being double or triple, the left even fometimes in four branches. Vol. IV, Bb timesappendix. 366 times into the vena cava, fometimes into the renal vein. The left fometimes receives the phrenic vein of that fide and enters into the renal vein. Spermatic veins.—Of the general diflribution of thefe veins nothing need be faid, after looking to the defcription of the arteries *. The VenhJ'Port2C has been already defcribed in the fecond volume. * See p. 189.C 367 1 OF THE TEETH. There is naturally an inclination in the author of a fyltem to amplify fome particular fubje&s, and to abridge, or bellow lefs attention, on others which may to him appear lefs interelting or curious. To rellrain this tendency has been the moll irkfome talk which I have felt in completing the prefent work. The growth and llru&ure of the teeth forms an elegant and interelting fubjeft of enquiry; and it is difficult to concentrate the view of it fo as to be confillent with the arrangement of a fyltematic work. As the general nature and ufe of the teeth are fuffi- ciently underltood, there can be little obje&ion to our beginning the prefent fubjedl with confidering the ftruc- ture of the human teeth. Of the structure of the teeth. A tooth conlills of thefe parts.—In the firll place, the enamel, a peculiarly hard layer of matter com- pofing the furface of the body of the tooth. The internal part, body, or fubltance of the tooth, is lefs ftoney and hard than the enamel, but of a firmer llrudure and more compact than common bone. In regard to the form of the tooth, we may obferve that it is divided into the crown, neck, and fangs, or roots Bb 2 ofAPPENDIX. 368 of the tooth, which go deep into the jaw. There is a cavity in the body of the tooth, and the tube of the fangs communicates with it. This cavity receives veftels for fupplying the remains of that fubftance upon which the tooth was originally forfiied. The roots of the teeth are received into the jaw by that kind of articulation which was caUed gomphofis. They are not firmly wedged into the bone, for, in confequence of maceration, and the deftrudion of the foft parts, the teeth drop from the fcull. There is betwixt the tooth and its focket in the jaw a common periofteum. Of the enamel. The furface of a tooth, that which appears above the gum, is covered with a very denfe hard layer of matter, which has been called the enamel. In this term there is fome degree of impro- priety, as afiimilating an animal produ&ion with a vitreous fubftance, although, the enamel very widely differs from the glafly fradure when broken. This matter beftows the moft efiential quality of hardnefs on the teeth ; but it is probably ufeful in another way, being intermediate betwixt the central bony' part of the tooth, which has life, and is fubjed to difeafe, and matter altogether foreign to the living body. When the enamel is broken off, and the body of the tooth expofed, it quickly decays. The enamel is the hardeft produdion of the animal body. It ftrikes fire with fteel: in church-yard fculls it is obferved-to refift decay when the centre of the tooth has fallen into duft. It has been found that the component parts of the enamel are nearly the fame withOF THE TEETH. 36 9 B b 3 feeding, with thofe of bone : in bone the pbofphate of lime is depofited on the membranes, or cartilage, but this hardening matter of bones is a fecretion from the veflels of the part, and is accumulated around the veflels themfelves: it is (till within the controul of their aftion, and-is fuffering the fucceflion of changes pecu- liar to a living part. But, in the enamel, the phofphate of lime has been depofited in union with a portion of animal gluten, and has no vafcularity, nor does it fuffer any change from the influence of the living fyflem. Although the hardening matter be principally phof- phate of lime, a fmall proportion of the carbonate of lime enters into the compofition both of bone and of enamel. Although we call the earthy depofit the hardening matter, yet it is the union of the glutinous matter which bellows the extreme hardnefs, for, when the tooth is as yet within the jaw, and in an early flage of its formation, the depofition is foft, and its furface rough; but, by a change in the furface, which throws out this fecretion, the firfl depofition is penetrated with gelatinous fecretion, which, either by this penetration (imply, or by cauling a new appofition of its parts, (itsflru&ure indeed looks like chryftallization,) bellows the denfity and extreme hardnefs on this crull. When an animal is fed with madder, the colouring matter coming, in the courfe of the circulation, in contaft with the earth of bone, is attrafled by it, and is de- polited upon it in a beautiful red colour. This colour- ing matter penetrates more than injection can be made to do in the dead body; and, as by this procefs ofAPPENDIX. 37° feeding, the enamel is not tinged, we have a convincing proof that the vafcular fyftem has no operation on the enamel after it is formed. From the compofition of the enamel, we muft be aware of the baneful effe&s of acidulated wafhes and powders to the teeth : they diffolve the furface, and give a deceitful whitenefs to the teeth; they erode the furface, which it is not in the conftitution of the part to reftore. Of the central bony part of the tooth. The chemical compofition, and the manner of combi- nation of the matter forming the central part of the tooth, and of the fangs, is fimilar to the other bones of the body; but when we examine the hardnefs and the denfity of the tooth, and fee that it is not even porous, or apparently capable of giving paflage to vefiels, we doubt of its vafcularity, and are apt to fuppofe that it holds its conne&ion with the living jaw-bone by fome other tenor than that of vefiels, and the circulation of the blood through it. I muft acknowledge that the difficulty in deciding on the vafcularity, and degree of vitality which the teeth poffefs, appears to me fo great, that I fhall at prefent venture to give no decided opinion. The vafcularity of the periofteum, which furrounds the teeth and veffels which enter by the fangs to the cavity of the teeth, feemed to fhew a fedulous care to fupply the tooth plentifully with blood. As this part of the tooth has often been coloured by feeding young animals with madder, the reverfe of that experiment, which convinces us there is no circulation in the enamel, fhould fatisfy us that there is blood circu-OF THE TEETH. 371 circulating through the body of the tooth, and that it undergoes the fame changes by abforption which the other bones are proved to do; but thefe experiments may have been made while the teeth were forming by the depofition from the pulp, and of courfe they might be coloured without the experiment affording a fair proof that the circulation continues in the tooth after it is formed. If it be proved that the adult teeth, or a fully formed tooth yet within the jaw, are uniformly tinged with the madder, we mull without referve con- clude, that the economy of the teeth .is in all refpe&s like that of the common bones. The teeth undergo changes of colour in the living body, to which it would appear they could not be liable as dead matter. They become yellow, tranf- parent, and brittle with old agej and when a tooth has been knocked from its focket, and replaced, dentifls have obferved that it lofes its whitenefs, and affumes a darker hue. The abforption of the roots in confequence of the caries of the body of the tooth, and the abforption of the fangs of the deciduous teeth, are further alleged in proof of their vafcularity j not only the preffure of the rifing tooth on the fangs of the temporary teeth will caufe an abforption of the latter, but the fangs of the temporary teeth will wafte and be abforbed, fo as to drop out without the mechanical preffure of the per- manent teeth, and before they have advanced to be in contatt with the former. The teeth feem acutely fenfible, but a little confidera- tion teaches us that the hard fubftance of the teeth is not endowed with fenfibility, and that it muff be the B b 4 remainsAPPENDIX. •37* remains of the vafcular pulp, prefently to be defcribed, occupying the centre of the tooth, which being fupplied with nerves, gives the acute pain in tooth-ach. It is as a medium communicating or abftra&ing heat, that the tooth itfelf feems to give pain. When wrought upon by the dentift, no fenfation is produced unlefs the tremor be communicated to the jaw, or unlefs the abrading, or cutting inftruments, be fo plied as to heat the tooth; then an acute pain is produced from the heat communicated to the centre; and fo, extremely cold fubftances, or liquids, taken into the mouth, ftill pro- duce pain, from the cold affe&ing the pulp of the tooth. As living parts, the teeth have adhefion to the peri- ofteum, and are connected with their internal pulp; but when they fpoil, and are eroded, the difeafe fpreads inwardly, probably deftroying the life of the bony part of the tooth, the progrefs of which difeafe is marked by a change of colour penetrating beyond the caries towards the centre of the tooth. When this decoloura- tion has reached the internal furface, the pain of tooth- ach is excited, the pulp, vafcular and fupplied with nerves, inflames, from a want of accordance with the altered (late of the tooth, juft as the dead furface of a bone will inflame the central periofteum and marrow. The extreme pain produced by this (late of the tooth probably proceeds from the delicate and fenfible pulp fwelling in the confinement of the cavity of the tooth. In caries of the teeth, the body of the tooth is dif- covered deep in its fubftance long before the pulp of the central cavity is expoled by the progrefs of the caries. No exfoliation, or exoftofis, takes place upon thatOF THE TEETH. 373 • that.paTt of the tooth which is above the gum, which may be owing to the mere compadnefs of the offific depofitions, for we know that the bones of greateft denfity are the mofl apt to yield altogether to difeafed adion, and die, inftead of throwing off their furface, in exfoliations, or taking any other variety of difeafed adion. In the further confideration of this fubjed, there are circumllances which will make us doubt of there being vafcular adion in the teeth, arid perhaps incline us to believe that they poffefs a lower degree of life, and are lefs fubjed to change than other parts. Suppofing the bony part of the tooth to be vafcular, and to poffefs the principle of life, is not the firm adhefion and con- tad of the enamel to the body of the tooth a curious inftance of a part deftitute of life adhering to the fur- face of a living part, without producing the common effeds of excitement and exfoliation, or inflammation, in the latter ? Is the enamel, though not a vafcular part, poffeffed of fome quality which diflinguilhes it from fo- reign matter, or is the bony part of the tooth poffeffed of folow a degree of vafcular adion, that it is not excited by the contad and adherence of the enamel ? We muff fuppofe that fome accordance fubfifls between them from what is obferved to be the effed of the lofs of the enamel, for then the bone of the tooth fpoils rapidly, and becomes carious. In rickets, and molities offium, and other difeafes of debility in which the body waftes, or the growth is retarded, the growth of the teeth is not retarded in the one cafe, nor is the grown teeth altered in their form or properties in the other. This appears to me to fupportAPPENDIX. 374 fupport the idea of there being a diftindion in the economy between the manner of the formation of the teeth, and of common bone. The effeds which we perceive in the bony fyftem under thefe difeafes, are produced by a preponderance of the abforbents over the adivity of the fecreting vefiels; while in the teeth no fuch effed can take place if they are formed by a depofition of bony matter which is not re-abforbed, nor undergoes the revolution of depofition and re- abforption, as in other parts of the body is the cafe. Accordingly we find in rickets, and the molities oflium, where the hardeft bone yields, where the jaw-bone itfelf is diftorted or altered in its form, that the teeth remain diftinguilhed for their fize and beauty; and in rickets the teeth are large, and perfedly formed, while the jaws are (tinted and interrupted in their growth. The confequence of this is, that the teeth form a larger range than the jaw, and give a charaderiftic protu- berance to the mouth. The roots of the teeth are fometimes found enlarged, diftorted, or with exoftofis formed upon them. Again the cavity of the tooth is found to have been filled up with the formation of new matter, or around the fangs we often find a fmall fac of pus, which is fometimes drawn out in extrading the tooth. Neverthelefs, in thefe examples of difeafe, there are no unequivocal marks of vafcular adion in the teeth; the unufual form, or exoftofis of the roots, is produced by an ori- ginal defed in the formation. The filling up of the cavity of the tooth is caufed by the refumed offific adion of the pulp in confequence of the difeafe and deftrudion of the body of the tooth j and the abfcefies i which375 OF THE TEETH. which furround the fangs are caufed by the death of the tooth, in confequence of which it has loft its fym- patby with the furrounding living parts, and becomes a fource of irritation like any other foreign body. We mud conclude, that the whole phenomena dis- played in the formation, adhefion, and difeafes of the teeth, fhow them to be poffefled of life, and that they have a correfpondence, or fympathy with the furround- ing parts. But are we prepared to acquiefce in the opinion of Mr. Hunter, that they poffefs vitality while yet they have no vafcular attion within them? We naturally fay, how can fuch vitality exift independently of a circulation ? But there are not wanting examples of an obfcure and low degree of life exifting in animals’ ova, or feeds, for feafons without a circulation j and if for feafons, why not for a term of life ? We never obferve the animal economy providing fuperfluoufly, and fince there is no inftance to be obferved in which the teeth have fhown a power of renovation, why fhould they be poffelfed of vafcularity and aftion to no ufeful end ? All that feems necefiary to them is, that they fhould firmly adhere without acting as a foreign and extraneous body to the furrounding parts, and this, vitality without vafcular a&ion, feems calculated to provide. Of the formation and growth of the teeth. In the jaws of a child newly born, there are con- tained two fet of teeth as it were in embrio : the deci- duous, temporary, or milk teeth ; and the permanent teeth. The neceffity for this double fet of teeth evidentlyAPPENDIX. evidently is to be found in the incapacity of alteration of fhape or fize in the teeth as in other parts of the body; the fmaller teeth, which rife fird, and are adapted to the curve and fize of the jaw-bone of an infant, require to be fucceeded by others, larger, ftronger, and carrying their roots deeper in the jaw. Each tooth is formed in a little fac, which lies be- twixt the plates of bone that form the jaw-bone of the foetus, or child, under the vafcular gum, and conne&ed with it. When we open one of thefe facs at an early period of the formation of the tooth, a very curious appear- ance prefents itfelf: A little (hell of bone is feen within the fac, but no enamel is yet formed. Upon raifmg the fhell of bone, which is of the fhape of the tooth, and is the outer layer of the bony fubdance of the tooth, a foft vafcular (tool, or pulp*, is found to have been the mould on which this outer layer of oflific matter has been formed; and a further obfervation will lead us to conclude that this bony and central part of the tooth is in the progrefs of being formed by fucceffive layers of matter thrown out from the furface of this vafcular pulp ; though many have explained the formation of the tooth, by fuppofing that the layers of this pulp were fucceffively offified. If we now turn our attention to the date of thofe teeth which we know to be later of rifing above the gum, we (hall find the ofiification dill lefs advanced, and a mere point, or perhaps feve.ral points of the depofited matter on the top of the pulp. * Le noyau, la coque, or le germe de la dent, by the French authors. TheOF THE TEETH. 377 The pulp, or vafcular papilla on which the tooth is formed, has not only this peculiar property of oilifica- tion, but, as the period of revolution advances, where it forms the rudiments of the molares for ‘example, its bafe fplits fo as to form the mould of two, three, or four fangs, or roots; for around thefe divifions of the pulp the oflific matter is thrown out fo as to form a tube continued downward from the body of the tooth. Gradually, and by fucceffive layers of matter on the infide of this tube, it becomes a ftrong root, or fang, and the bony matter has fo encroached on the cavity, that only a fmall canal remains, and the appearance of the pulp is quite altered, having fhiunk in this narrow fpace. We have faid that the tooth forming on its pulp, or vafcular bed, is furrounded with a membrane giving the whole the appearance of a little fac. This mem- brane has alfo an important ufe. It is vafcular alfo as the pulp is, but it is more connected with the gums, and receives its veffels from the furface, while the pulp, lying under the fhell of the tooth, receives its blood- veffels from that branch of the interna! maxillary artery which takes its courfe in the jaw. The enamel is formed after the body of the tooth has confiderably advanced towards its perfect form. It is formed by a fecretion from the capfule, or membrane, which inverts the teeth *, and which is originally con- tinuous with the pulp. The enamel is thicker at the point, and on the body of the tooth, than at its neck. Mr. Hunter fuppofed that the capfule always fecreting, * This outer fac has been called chorion, fiom the numerous vefiels diftributed upon it. See Kerilfant. 2 and378 APPENDIX. and the upper part of the tooth being formed firft, it would follow of courfe that the point and body of the tooth would be covered with a thicker depofition; but it rather appears that the part of the fac oppofite to the upper part, and body of the tooth, has a greater power of fecreting, being in truth more vafcular and fpongy, for the whole of the body of the bony part of the tooth is formed before the enamel inverts the tooth. We are indebted to M. Heriflant for much of the explanation of the manner in which the enamel is formed. He defcribes the fac *, its attachment to the pulp, and to the neck of the teeth,—as the tooth advances to its perfect form, the fac alfo changes. At firft it is delicate and thin, but it thickens apace. And he afierts, that if after this progrefs is begun you examine the inner furface of it with a glafs, you will perceive it to be compofed of little veficles in regular order, and which fometimes have a limpid fluid contained in them. This liquid exuded upon the furface of the teeth he fuppofes to form the enamel. He explains alfo how this fac, originally inverting the body and neck of the tooth, being pierced by the edge of the tooth, and the tooth rifing through it, is inverted, and by ftill keeping its connection with the circle of the crown of the tooth, rifes up in connexion with the gum, and in fome de- gree forms the new gum which furrounds the tooth. Succeeding authors have found this membrane double. We may examine it inoft fuccefsfully, fays Mr. Hunter, in a new-born child, and we find it made up of two lamellae, an external and an internal; the * Reflemble affez a une petite bourfe fepmee. external379 OF THE TEETH/ The external is foft and fpongy, without any vefiels; the other is much firmer, and extremely vafcular, its vefiels coming from thofe that are going to the pulp of the tooth. He adds, that while the tooth is within the gum, there is always a mucilaginous fluid like the finovia in the joints between this membrane and the pulp of the tooth. Of the growth of the second set of teeth, AND THE SHEDDING OF THE FIRST SET. The firft, or deciduous fet of teeth, being adapted only for the jaws of a child, are deftined to be filed, and to give place to the adult, or permanent fet of teeth. Accordingly, in obferving the progrefs of the formation of the firft teeth, the rudiments of the fecond may alfo be feen in the foetus of the feventh or eighth month ; and in the fifth and fixth month after birth, the oflification begins in them. The rudiments of the permanent teeth may be obferved even when the fac is very fmall, and appear like a filament ftretching up to the neck of the fac of the deciduous teeth. Thefe facs lie on the inner fide of the jaw-bone, and when further advanced, the necks of the two facs, (both as yet under the gum.) are united; but when the firft teeth are fully formed, and have rifen above the gum, the alveolar procefies have been at the fame time formed around them, and now the fac of the perma- nent teeth have a connexion with the gums through a fmall foramen in the jaw-bone, behind the fpace through which the firft teeth have fhot.380 APPENDIX. The opinioh now entertained, that the fecond fet of teeth pufhes out the firft, is very erroneous, for the change on the deciduous and the growing teeth feems to be influenced by laws of coincidence indeed, but not of mechanical adtion. Sometimes we obferve the falling tooth wafted at the root, or on the fide of the fang, by the preflure of the rifing tooth. Now here we fhould fuppofe that the newly-formed tooth fhould be the rnoft apt to be abforbed by the preflure of the root of the deciduous tooth, did we not recolledt that the new tooth is inverted with the hard enamel, while the preflure on the other adls -upon the bony root. But there is more than this in the phenomenon of the fhedding of the teeth, for often the fang is wafted while the tooth adheres only by the gum, and the permanent tooth has made little progrefs in its elevation, and has not prefled upon it. This decay and wafting of the fangs of the teeth looks more like a fatisfaclory proof in fupport of their vafcularity, than any other change to which they are fubjedl. Yet there feems to be no reafon why w’e fhould not fuppofe, that as the rudiments of the teeth rife into adtion at a particular time, and form the bony centre of the tooth, this formation fhould be effedted by fimilar lawsj that at a particular period the tooth fhould decay, and that the decay of the tooth fhould begin with the deftruction of the fangs. Neither can I refill the belief that the bony part of the tooth has a tendency to difiolution independently of a circulation of blood through it, or of an internal adlion of veflfels, and that as the roots wafte, the furrounding vafcular parts abforb its fubftance. It381 07 THE TEETH. It is no proof of the firft fet being pufhed out by the fecond fet of teeth, that if the permanent teeth do not rife, the firft will remain, their roots unwafted and firm even to old age ; for ftill I contend that there is an agreement and coincidence betwixt the teeth in their changes, and alfo in the alveoli, by which they are furrounded; but this is not produced by the pref- fure of the rifing teeth. When a dentift fees a tooth feated out of the proper line, and draws it, and finds that he has made the miftake of extracting the adult tooth, letting the milk tooth remain, he mud not ex~ pe£t that the milk tooth will keep its place, for the contrary will happen, it will in general fall out. The old and the new teeth are lodged in diftin<5t compartments of the jaw-bone, and what is more curious, their alveoli are diftinCt, for as the roots of the firft teeth decay, their alveolar proceffes are ab- forbed, while again, as the new teeth rife from their deep feat in the jaw bone, they are accompanied with new alveoli*; yet thefe alveoli are not Sufficient to Support the teeth, for we find that the teeth will remain long perfeCl while they uniformly retain their relative pofition and number, but when one falls, the reft more quickly decay; and the chief art of the dentift in fhifring the feat of the teeth, is gradually to puffi them along the jaw notwithftanding thefe bony partitions and proceffes, fo as to bring them into equal and Seemly lines. No circumftance can better illuftrate how perfect the dependence of the alveoli is upon the teeth, than, that of their being thrown off with them in extenfive * Mr. Hunter. C c Vol. IV. exfolia-j8s APPENDIX. r\ it exfoliations. 1 have a fpecimen of this in my collec- tion, where the whole circle of the alveolar proceffes and teeth is thrown off. This happened after the confluent fmall-pox. I think I recollect a fimilar cafe occurring to Dr. Blake. In thofe tumors which arife from the alveoli and gums, filling the mouth with a cancerous mafs, and foftening the upper part of the jaw, there is no eradicating the difeafe but by taking away the whole adventitious part of the jaw which belongs to the teeth, and leaving only the firmer bafe* But even this operation will be too often unfuccefsful. When a tooth is loft, it appears as if the fpace it occupied were partly filled up by an increafed thicknefs of the adjacent teeth, and partly by the lengthening of that which is oppofite: indeed, this appearance has been brought as a proof of the continual growth of teeth. But there is a fallacy in the obfervation; for when the fpace appears to have become narrow by the approximation of the two adjacent teeth, it is not owing to any-increafe of their breadth, but to their moving from that fide where they are well fupported to the other fide where they are not. For this reafon they get an inclined dire&ion; and this inclination may be obferved in feveral of the adjoining teeth *. The tranfplanting of teeth prefents another very interefting phenomenon. A tooth recently drawn, and placed accurately into a focket from which one has been taken, will adhere there : nay, it will even adhere to any living part, as in the comb of a cock. This, however, proves nothing further than what all allow, that the tooth poffeffes vitality, for after a time * Mr. J. Hunter. oOF THE TEETH. It will not adhere; it has become a dead part, and the living fubftance refufes to coalefce with it. Again, and in oppofition to this, is it not very extraordinary that the teeth may be burnt by chemical agents, or the adtual cautery, down to the centre, and yet retain their hold; or that the body of the tooth may be cut off, and a new tooth fixed into it by a pivot ? Had the teeth any vafcular a&ion, this torturing would caufe re-a£tion and difeafe in them. Sometimes the molt terrible effects are produced by thefe operations, as tetanus, abcefs in the jaws, &c.; but this happens in confequence of the central nerve being bruifed by the wedging of the pivot in the cavity of the tooth, or by the roots of the teeth becoming, as dead bodies, a fource of irritation to the furrounding fockets. The difeafe produced by the tranfplanting of teeth has not been fatisfaftorily explained, though the in- veftigation would throw confiderable light on the phyliology of the teeth, and be in itfelf of practical ufe. About a month after tranfplanting the tooth, and after it has taken perfect adhefion, the difeafe has appeared. An ulceration is perceived in the gum and jaw; or the gum fhrinking and wafting by ulceration, leaves the tooth and alveoli bare. Soon after, blotches appear on the Ikin ; and fometimes ulcers in the throat. —In fome cafes, this difeafe has been cured without mercury, and in others, feems only to have yielded to the mercureal courfe. Mr. Hunter entertained the opinion that it was not venereal, but a diftinct difeafe; and I find that Richter fuppofes there are two dif- eafes produced, the one venereal, and the other a C c 2 peculiarAPPENDIX. peculiar affection. Others have fuppofed that this is not a difeafe propagated from the one perfon to the other, but produced by the combination of the living principle of two diftinX fyftems! In fhort, the cafe does not feem to be well underftood. Suppofmg it to be the venereal difeafe thus propagated, (and this is the molt likely fuggeffion,) then it does not appear that we fhould confider it as an inoculation of the matter of the difeafe, but of a part long contaminated, ingrafted: and in this view it will probably be found neceffary to continue the plan of cure as for an old affeXion, and not for the recent difeafe. We may conclude that the teeth are peculiar in their fubllance and ftruXure, in the manner of their growth and nutrition ; and, as they are diftinX from the other bones of the fyftem in their form and con- nexions, fo are they in their more effential qualities. Of the gums.—The necks of the teeth are fur- rounded by the gums, a red, vafcular, but firm fub- ftance which covers the alveolar proceffes. To the bone and to the teeth the gums adhere very ftrongly, but the edge touching the teeth is loofe. The gums have little fenfibility in their healthy and found ftate; and by maffication, when the teeth are loff, they gain a degree of hardnefs which proves almoft a fub- flitute for the teeth. The ufe of the gum is chiefly to give firmnefs to the teeth, and at the fame time, as Mr. Hunter obferves, to give them that kind of fup- port which breaks the jar of bony contaX. Like the alveolar procefs, the gums have a fecret connexion with the ftate of the teeth. Before the milk-teeth appear, there is a firm ridge which runs along the gums.385 OF THE TEETH. gums *, but this is thrown off, or wades with the rifing of the teeth : and as the teeth rife the proper gums grow, and embrace them firmly. The gum is firm, and in clofe adhefion, when the teeth are healthy; loofe, fpongy, or fhrunk, when they are difeafed. The only means of operating upon the general date of the teeth is through the gums; and by keeping them in a date of healthy action by the brufh and tinctures, the dentid fixes the teeth, and preferves them healthy ; but when they are allowed to be ioofe and fpongy, and fubjedt to frequent bleeding, (which is improperly called a fcor? butic date,) the teeth become loofe, and the gums painful. If a healthy tooth be implanted in the jaw, the gum grows up around it, and adheres to it; but if it be dead or difeafed, the gum ulcerates, loofens, and fhrinks from it; and this fhrinking of the gums is foon followed by the ubforption of the alveoli. From the diforder of the teeth, the gums are fubjedt to many difeafes; fome of them troublefome, fome dangerous, or at lead giving rife to dangerous difeafes. They fwell from tooth-ach and inflammation of the centre of the tooth (parulis), or form tumors from the fide of the tooth (epulis). Often fuppuration follows thefe fwellings; and the matter making its way by the fide of the jaw, and dedroying the alveoli, troublefome fiftulae are the confequence. The accumulation of tartar on the teeth is the caufe of an ulceration and wading of the gums, in the end very injurious to the teeth. The foft, fpongy, and bleeding tumors which arife from the gums, are in fact difeafes of the bone, * See Heriffant. Cc 3 OS'386 APPENDIX. or rather the peculiar charaderiftic of the difeafe of the alveoli and of the cancelli of the jaw-bone ; and can- not be cured but by a praftice which reaches to the root and origin of the difeafe. Of the first and second set of the teeth. Before we obferve the claffing of the adult teeth, we muff attend to the two fets of teeth, the infantine or deciduous teeth, and the adult or permanent teeth. The firfl: fet of teeth are twenty in number: thefe are divided into three clafles; the incisores, four in each jaw; the cuspidati, two in each jaw ; and the molares., four in number in each jaw. The teeth of a child generally appear in this order; firfl; the central incifores of the lower jaw pierce the gum. In a month after, perhaps, their counterparts appear in the upper jaw. Thefe, in a few weeks, are fucceeded by the lateral incifores of the lower jaw; then the lateral incifores of the upper jaw. The growth of the teeth is not after this in a regular progreffion backwards, for now, inftead of the cufpidati, which are immediately lateral to the incifores, the anterior molares of the lower jaw flowly lift their white furface above the gum about the fourteenth or fifteenth month. Now the cufpidati pierce the gum; and, laftly, the larger molares make their appearance, the teeth of the lower jaw preceding thofe above. The lafl: tooth does not rife till the beginning of the third year. The teeth do not always cut the gum in this order ; it is only the more regular and common order. When the teeth appear in irregular fuccefilon, more irritation andOF THE TEETH. 387 and pain, and more of thofe fymptoms which are ufually attributed to teething, are faid to accompany them, an opinion which I believe to have arifen from fome cafual obfervations. The deciduous fet of teeth terminates with the rifing of the fecond molaris; for the third molaris being formed about the eighth year, when the jaw is advanced towards its perfect form, is not fhed, but is truly the firfl: permanent tooth. The molares of the adult are properly the permanent teeth (immutabiles), for all the others are deciduous, and are replaced by the adult fet; yet we mud recoiled that, in oppofition to Albinus, in this arrangement, it is more common to fpeak of the whole fet of the adult teeth as the immu- tabiles. In the fixth and feventh years the jaws have fo much enlarged, that the firfl: fet of teeth feems too fmall, fpaces are left betwixt them, and they begin to fall out, giving place to the adult teeth. But the fhedding of the teeth is by no means regular in regard to time; the child is already no longer in a date of nature, and a thoufand circumftances have lecretly affeded the health and growth. The teeth even fall out three years earlier in one child than in another: nay, fo fre- quently are fome of them retained altogether, that it would appear neceflfary to be affured of the forward flate of the adult tooth before the tooth of the firfl; fet fhould be thoughtlefsly drawn. The jaw-bones are ftill fo fmall, that the fecond fet of teeth mud rife flowly and in fucceflion, elfe they would be accumulated into too fmall a circle, and of courfe turned from their proper diredion. The388 APPENDIX. the The incifores of the under jaw are loofe commonly ■when the anterior of the permanent molares are thruft- ing up the gum. The permanent central incifores foon after appear, and in two or three months thofe of the upper jaw appear. In three or four months more the lateral incifores of the lower jaw are loofened, and the permanent teeth appear at the fame time the ante- rior molares have appeared. The lateral incifores of the upper jaw follow next j and, in from fix to twelve months more, the temporary molares loofen, the long fangs of the cufpidati retaining their hold fome time longer. The anterior molares and the cufpidati falling, are fucceeded about the ninth year by the fecond bicuf- pides and the cufpidati. The pofterior bicufpides take the place of the pofterior molares about the tenth or eleventh year. The fecond permanent molares do not appear for five or fix years from the commencement of the appearance of the permanent teeth. The laft of the molares, or the dens fapientite, appears from the fif- teenth to the twentieth, or even to the twenty-fifth year. Classes of the adult teeth. The teeth at full maturity are thirty-two in number *, and they are divided into thefe dalles, incifores, cufpi- dati, bicufpidi, and molares. The incifores are eight in number, four in each jaw : they are of the fimpleft form, their edges are even, and laterally they con trad equally to the neck: they are gibbous, forward, and flightly concave on * From twenty-eight to thirty-two in number.—Hunter.389 OF THE TEETH. the infide; their roots are fimple. The incifores of the upper jaw are larger and ftronger; thofe of the lower jaw are final ler, neater, and for the mod part evenly fet, while the teeth of the upper jaw are more frequently irregular from being crowded together. The cufpidatif are four in number, one lateral to the incifores of each jaw. They are flronger than the lad in their form; thicker at their bafe: in the gum more convex forward, and terminate with a notched central point. In general, and particularly in the lower jaw, they project further than the other teeth ; their roots are fingle and long; they (land betwixt the inci- fores and grinders in form as in place, for they feeni neither perfeftly adapted to cut like the incifores, nor for grinding. “ We may trace in thefe teeth,” fays Mr. Hunter, <c a fimilarity in fhape, fituation, and ufes from the mod imperfect carnivorous animal which we believe to be the human fpecies, to the mod perfect carnivorous animal, the lion.” Next in order from thefymphyfis of the jaw rife the bicufpides, the fourth and fifth teeth. Thefe are eight in number, and accurately refemble each other. Taking one, we may obferve that it is flattened laterally, anfwering to the flat fide of the root, and that it ter- minates in two acute points: the internal of thefe points, even when not worn down, is the lead. The fecond bicufpes is often wanting. The bicufpides are very often called the anterior grinders. Their roots are Angle, or appear like two fangs united j or the fird bicufpes has in general two fmall fangs, or is rather * Dentes canini, the eye teeth, from their place of original lodgement in the upper jaw. forked}APPENDIX. 39° forked ; the others feldom more than one. Their roots are oftener curved than thofe of the other teeth. The firft and fecond grinders are nearly alike. The body of thefe forms almoft a fquare; generally five points project from their grinding furface, which makes an irregular cavity in the centre: often fome lefler Tubercles, or points, are to be obferved at the bafe of the larger ones. The neck of the tooth is but little contracted. There are two fangs, one foreward, the other backward, with their edges turned outward ; their extremities are broad, often bifurcated, and fhorter than thofe of the bicufpides. There are two cavities to each fang leading to the general cavity in the body of the tooth. The fangs at their middle part are generally bent a little backward. The upper grinders have three diverging fangs, and they are more pointed, and have but one canal. They are dire&ly under the floor of the maxillary finus. The jaw acquires its full proportion about the age of eighteen or twenty, when the third molaris, or the dens fapientice, makes its appearance. It is fhorter and fmaller, and is inclined more inward than the others. Its fangs are lefs regular and diftintt, being often fqueezed together. From the cufpidati to the laft: grinder, the fangs are becoming much fhorter $ and from the firft incifor to the laft grinder, the teeth ftand lefs out from the fockets and gums. FINIS.ERRATA. Page Line 35. 8 for croffi read crafli 46, 6. from toot, for nerous r. nervous -— —— —, — vilous r. villous 56. 5. for bourbovigini r. borbotygmi 81. 20. — mefientery r. mefentery 83. 3. — artereal r. arterial 84. penult, fur Wicfer r. Wepfer 85. 19. for ileac r. iliac — penult, for hipatica r. hepatica 90. 4. for f’gmoid r. figmoid 91. 8. — miconium r. meconium 93. 11. — fegmoid r. figmoid *— 24. — feminalis r. feminales 99 24 for duplication r. duplicature 126 15. — roupes r. ropes 138. 12. — nephretic r. nephritic 139. 21. — naval r. navel 14a. 14, — papilla r. papell* Page Lint 145. 16. for Belini read Eeilini 146. 5. — loculentus r. luculentus — 7. — Belini r. Bellini 150. 6. — mefclus r. mefluj 158. 12. — peroneum r. perinaeum 162. 7. —«. urtecus r urachus 167. 2. —fpongeofum r. fpongiofui® — 4. Ibid. 213. 19. for procedentia r. procidentia 220. 7. — myrteformes r myrtiformes 230. 19. — Falopean r. Fallopean 133. I. — r.ervex r. cervix 238. 13. — vefficles r. veficles 260. 1. — cborian r. chorion 261. 9. — clofler r. clofer 260. 21. — gellatinous r. gelatinous 272. 7. — embrioulcia r. embryouleii? Printed by A. Strahan, Printcrs-Street.J ■ i ' I '\ • ( ■ > I /