LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: COOKR/ h tm K-Qj \3gzI The University Library Leeds The John F. Preston Collection oj Cookery Books Lin Gift of Air. Preston 1962 4 9 4 IumVEMflV uimi L£09( i‘i ) *►>*>■, ^ ^ *£->• »)* **> »>>» *J* »>**>)• ♦» f^K® 4> 5* <* P R E F A C E, /r is not doubted, but the candid Reader will find the following BOOK in Corrcfpondcnce with the Title, which willfupercedt the NcctJJity of any other Recommendation that might It given it. As the Compiler of it engaged in the Undertaking at the Inflancc and Importunity of many Perfons of eminent Ac- taunt and Dijiindion, foJh& can truly ajfure them, and the World, that Jhe has acquitted herfclf with the utmojl Care find Fidelity. Andflic entertains the greater Hope that her Performance •will meet with the kinder Acceptance, lecaufe of the good Opinion Jhc has been held in by thofe, her ever honoured Iriends, who jirjl excited her to the Publication of her BOOK, and who have been long Eye-Witnejfcs of Jier Skill and Behaviour in the Bujincjs of her Calling. A a INTR«.INTRODUCTION To the Fourteenth Edition. M ANY friends to this publication having repeatedly exprefied their defires of knowing the particular months when river-fifh fpawn, and are moll in fealon ; the Editor of this work, ever ready to attend to the kind hints which are offered for its improvement, and im- prcfled with the deepeft fenfe of gratitude to the public, tor their favourable reception of thirteen very large dif- tintff imprefiions of the work, fubtrits to their candor, the heft anfwers, as fuited to the rivers Aire and Wharfe, which he hath been able to procure to their requefts ; and the belt information, in fuch other particulars, as, he apprehends, maybe ufeful. BARBEL.—This fifh fpawns at the latter end of April, or in the beginning of May ; begins to be in fea- fon about a month after, and continues in feafon till the time of fpawning returns. It is very bony and coarl'e, and is not accounted, at anytime, the bell filh to eat either for * ** wholefomenefs or taffe but the fpawn is of * Hawkins, the Editor of Walton’s Complete Angler, obferves, P. 117, Note, That “ though the fpawn of Barbel is known to be “ ota poifotrous nature, yet it is often taken, by countrv people, “ medicinally, who find it at once a moll powerful emetic and “ cathartic. And, notwithllanding what is faid of the vliole- fomcnefs of the flejh, with fame conftitutions it produces the •!l fame cftefls as the fpawn. About the month of September, in “ the year 1754, a fervant of mine, who had eaten part of a Bar- ** bcl, though as I had cautioned him, he abilaincd trom the “ fpawn, was feized with fuch a violent purging and v»tRiung as ei Had like to have coft him lu$ litc.”INTRODUCTION. y 3 very poifonous nature. When it is full of fpawn, in March and April, it may be fo eafily miftaken for Tench, if the barbs or wattels, under the head, are carefully cut off ; and (if the fame art is taken to difguife it) its fine cafe and handfome fliape, during the reft of the year, give it fo near a refemblance to Grayling, that it is very common to ialpofe it upon the public, for the one or the other, as the different feafons give'the proper opportu- nities. The public, therefore, cannot be too much warn- ed of the danger attending fuch deceit; and the prudent matron, houfekeeper, or cook, cannot examine with too much care, whether the (kin, under the chaps of fuch fifh as are purchafed for Tench or Grayling, be perfectly whole ; fince, if they are Barbel, there will be four flight wounds under the head or chaps of each fdfh, by the barbs or wattels being cut off. For if it is ferved up to the table for Tench, the fpawn may prove fatal to the perfon who eats it ; and, at the beft, whether it is dteffed as Tench or Grayling, the free eating- of the FLESH (it we may be allowed the exprelhon) may be attended with difagreeable, if not dangerous confe- quences. It, will appear below, that Tench fpawn in July, we muff, therefore, remark further, that if any filh is fold for Tench in March and April, and proves to be full of fpawn, it cannot be Tench, but is a cheat -upon the purchafer, and muff be Barbel. BLEAK.—The time of its (pawning is very uncer- tain, and the fifli is very little regarded at any time. BREAM.—Spawns in the beginning of July, but is moil in feafon in June and September. CARP-—T his fifli is faid to breed two or three times m a year, but the chief time of fpawning is ip May. It is, indeed, rather a pond, than a river fifli ; and a well fed fifli is at all times a delicate difli. CHUB.—Spawns in March, but is beff in feafon about Chriftmas. The fpawn is excellent, and very wholeforpe.vi INTRODUCTION. DACE.—fpawns about the middle of March, are In feafon about three weeks after ; they are no: very- good till about Michaelmas, & are the bell in February*. EEL9.—are equally in feafon all the year. The bright Silver Eels, which are bred in clear rivers and ftreams, are in great efteem. Thofe which are caught in ponds, or waters of a flow courfe, whofe bottoms are rather in- clined to earth and flime, than gravel, are at the beft in- fipid, and very frequently tafte of the very mud in which they'- have been bred. GUDGEONS.—fpawn in May, and once or twice snore during the fummer. Are in feafon all the year, except two or three weeks after every fpawning time. GRAYLING or UMBER.—This excellent filh fpawns in May, is in feafon all the year, but in the greateft perfe&ion in December. See the obfervations upon Barbel. PERCH.—This nutritious and wholefome fifh is in feafon all the year, but moE fo in Augult and Septem- ber A POPE or RUFF or BARCE.—This fifh fpawns m April, and is m feafon all the year ; no fifh that fwims is of a pleafanter tafte. ■* The people who live not far from rivers where Dace or Roach are caught, have a method of drefling the larger fort, which, is faid, renders them very pleafant and favoury food : it is as fol- lows ; without fealing the fifh, lay them on a gridiron, as foon after they are taken as you can, over a flow fire, and drew on them a little flour ; when they begin to grow brown make a flit, not more than fkin deep, in the back, from head to tail, and lay them on again ; when they arc broiled enough, the fkin, fcalcs and all will peel Off, and leave the flelh, which will have become very firm, pcrfcftly clean, then open the belly, and take out Uje infide, and ufe anchovies and butter for fauce. , i The following receipt for du ffing a large Trout or Perch m the Yorkfhirc manner, is eftcemed an excellent one ; Take the fifh as foon as poflible after they arc caught, wipe them well with a foft dry cloth, wrap a little of the cloth about your finger, clean out the throat and gills very well, (you mull not fcalc or gut the fifh, or ufe any water about them) then lay them onagridiron over a clear fire, and turn them frequently When they are enough, take oft their heads, to which you will find the guts have adhered, then put a lump of butler, fcafoned with fait, into the belly ot every filh : fo ferve them up. Moft people cat them wiih their own gravy j but if you ulc any faucej lerveit up in a boat.INTRODUCTION. vi,*• PIKE.—The time of breeding or fpawning is ufually in April ; he is in feafon all the year, but the fatteil and belt led in Autumn, though in molt general ufe in the fpririg. ROACH.—fpawn about the latter end of May, when they are fcabby and unwholeiome, but they are again in order in about three weeks, and continue iu feafon till the time of fpawning returns. The fpawn is excel- lent. For the manner of dreffing, fee Dace, SALMON—is in feafon from the middle of Novemb* her to the middle of Auguft. SALMON-SMELT—is in feafon all the year. TENCH.—This pleafant tailed Irfli fpawns in July, is in feafon all the year, but molt Valued in the fix win- ter months. See the obfervations upon Barbel. TROUT.—This beautiful and delicious filh fpawns in O&ober and November, and is not of any value till the latter end of March, but continues afterwards in fea- fon till the fpawning time returns. It is in the highell perfeftion, and of the mod delicate tafle, in May and June. For the method of dreffing, fee Ferch,tTfAwrsr Brett Brill Cod Cole-Filh Cockles Crabs Dabbs Flounders Guurncts • J»r Fcfc Jm. T7 il M y Jui e J.i ’ /log ls'P • oa. * * * ■* * * * * # * * * * * * * * * * * * • * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * # ★ * * * * * * * * - * * * * • 3 ' ' * - * * -* * * * * * * * *> * * * ■* ' * * * # * * «= * ■* * * * * * * * ■* * * * * * ♦ * * * ♦ * * * * « * * ♦ * * * * * * ♦ * * * * * t * * * * * * » * * * * * • * * ♦ ♦ * • « « * A * % * w • * * * 1 « t » • « • • t * Dec. H rii Lo ■. ; ji s Ding ! Oyllers Salmon Mackrell Mulcles Plaice Soles Shri imps Sturgeon Si- lit Thorn back Turbot Whitcings Sea Smelt 'I Cong cr Bel The Stars fignify when the flfb arc in Scafon, and the Blanks when they arc not,Engliili Houfewifery. i, .Tomake Vermicelli Soup* rjpAKE a neck of beef, or an/ other piece } cut off fume dices, and fry them with butter ’till they are very brown ; wadi your pan out every time with a little of the gravy; you may broil a few dices of the beet upon a gridiron ; put all together into a pot, w\th a large onion, a little fait, and a little whole pepper; let it flew till the meat is ten- der, and dci-o oft the fat in the boiling ; then drain it into yourdifh, and boil four ounces of vermicelli in a little of the gravy ’till it is foft. Add a little flow’d fpinage ; then put all together into a difh, with toads uf bread ; laying a little vermicilli upon every toad. Garnifh yourdifh with creed rice and boil'd fpinage, or carrots diced thin. 2. Cucumber Soup. Take a honghill of beef, break it ftnall, and put it into a dew-pan, with part of a neck of mutton, a little whole pepper, an onion, and a little fall ; co- ver it with water, and let it (land in the oven all( *0 ) night, then (train it and take off the fat; pare fix of eight rniddle-fiz’d cucumbers, and (lire them not very thin, (lew them in a little butter and a little whole pepper ; take them out of the butter and put them into the gravy. Garnilh yourdifh with rafp- ings of bread, and ferve it up with toads of bread ®r French roll. 3. To make Hare Soup. Cut the hare into fmall pieces, wafh it and put it into a ftew-pan, with a knuckle of veal ; put in it a gallon of water, a little fair, and a handful of fw'eet herbs ; let it Itew till the gravy be good ; fry a little of the hare to brown the foup , you may putin it fome crufts of white bread among the meat to thicken the foup ; put it into a dilh, with a lit- tle (tew’d Ipinage, crifp’d bread, and a few forc’d- smeat balls. Garnifh your difh with boil’d fpinagc and turnips, cut it in thin fquare fltces. 4. To make Green Peas Soup. Take a neck of mutton, and a knuckle of veal, make ofthem a little good gravy; then take half a peck of the greeneft young peas, boil and beat them to a pulp in a marble mortar ; then put to them a little of the gravy (train them thr ugh a hair fk-ve to take out all the pulp ; put ait together, with a little fait and whole pepper; then boil it a little, and if you think the loop not green enough, boil a and- ful of fpinage very tend.r, rub it through a hair fteve, and put it into the foup, with one handful of wheat flour, to keep it from running : Yon mutt not lei it boil af ter the fpinage is put in, it will dif- colour it ; then cut white bread in little diamonds, fry them in butter while crifp, and put it into a difli, with a few whole, peas. Gamilh your did* with creed rice, and red beet-root.( IX ) You may make afparagus foup the fame way* only add tups of afparagus, inftead of whole peas. 5. To make Onion Soup. Take four or five large onions, peel and boil them in milk and water whilft tender, (lhift them two or three times in the boiling) beat ’em in a marble mortar to a pulp, and rub them thro* a hair fieve, and put them into a little fweet gravy : then fry a few flices of veal, and iwo or three dices of lean bacon ; beat them in a marble mortar as fmall as forc’d meat ; put it into your ftew-pan with the gravy and onions, and boil them ; mix a fpoonful of wheat flour with a little water, and put it into the foup to keep it from running ; ftrain all through a cullender, feafon it to your tafte ; then put into the difh a little fpinage ftewed in butter, and a little crifp bread ; fo ferve it up. 6. Common PEAs-Soupin Winter. Take a quart of good boiling peas, which put into a pot with a gallon of foft water whilft cold ; add thereto a little beef or mutton, a little hung beef or bacon, and two or three large onions ; boil all together while your foup is thick ; fait it to your tafte, and thicken it with a little wheat flour ; ftrain it thio’ a cullender, boil a little celery, cut it in fmall pieces, with little crifp bread, and crifp a little, lpiuage as you would do parfley, then put it in a difh, and ferve it up. Garnifh your difh with rafpings of bread. , 7. 1 o make Peas-Soup in Lent. Take a quart ol peas, put them into a pot with a gallon of water, two or three large onions, half a dozen anchovies, a little whole pepper anil fait ; boil all together whilft your foup is thick j drain it into a dew-pan thro' a cullender, and put fix ounces of butter (work’d in flour) into the foup rof 12 } thicken it; alfo put it in a little boil'd celery, flew’d fpinage, crifp bread, and a little diy’d mint pow- dered y fo ferve it up. 8. Craw-Fish Soup. Take a knuckle of veal, and part of a neck of' mutton to make white gravy, putting in an onion,, a little whole p pper and fait to your tafte ; then take twenty craw-fifti, boil and beat them in a mar- ble mortar, adding thereto a little of the gravy j ilrain them and put them into the gravy ; alfo two or three pieces of white bread to thicken the foup boil twelve or fourteen of the fmalleft craw fifh, and put them whole into the difh, with a few toafts, or French rolls), which you pleafe; fo ferve it up. jt- You may make lobfter foup the fame way, only add into the foup the feeds of the lobfter. 9. To make Scotch Soup. Take an houghill of beef, cut it in pieces, with part of a neck of mutton, and a pound of French barley ; put them all into your pot, with fix quaits of water; let it boil ’till the barley be foft, then put in a fowl ; as foon as it is enough, put in a handful of red beat leaves or broccoli, a handful of the blades of onions, a handful of fpinage, waftied and fhred very fmall ; only let them have a little boil, elfe it will fpoil the greennefs. Serve it up with the fowl in a difh, garnifli’d with rafpings of bread. 10. To make Soup without Water. Take a fmall leg of mutton, cut it in fiices, fea- fon it with a little pepper and fait; cut three mid- dling turnips in round pieces, and three fmall car- rots (craped and cut in pieces, a handful of fpinage, a little parfley, a bunch of fweet herbs, and two or three cabbage lettice ; cut the herbs pretty fmall, lay a row of meat and a row ot herbs ; put the tur- nips and carrots at the bottom of the pot with an( *3 ) onion, lay at the top half a pound of fweet blitter, and clofe up the pot with coarfe pafle ; then put the pot into boiling water, and let it boil for four hours ; or in a flow oven, and let it fland all night ; when it is enough drain the gravy from the meat, fkim off the fat, then put it into your diih with feme toafts of bread, and a little ftew’d fpinage ; fo ferve it up. ii. To flew a Brisket of Beef. Take the thin part of a brifket of beef, fcore the fkin at the top ; crofs and takeoff the under fkin, then take out the bones, feafon if highly with mace, a little fait, and a little whole pepper, rub it on both Tides, let it lay all night, make broth of the bones, ikim the fat clean off, put in as much wa- ter as will cover it well, let it flew over a flow fire four or five hours, with a bunch of fweet herbs and an onion cut in quarters ; turn the beef over every hour, and when you find it tender take it out of the broth and drain it very well, having made a little good ftrong gravy. A ragout withfweet-breads cut in pieces, pallets tenderly boil’d and cut in long pieces ; take truffles morels and mufhrooms, if you have any, with a little claret, and throw in your beef, let it flew a quarter of an hour in the ragout, turning it over fonetimes, then takeout your beef, and thicken your ragout with a Jump of butter and a little flour Garnilh your difh with horfe-radifh and pickles, lay the ragout round your beef, and a little upon the top ; fo ferve it up.1 12. To flew a Rump of Beef, Fake a fat rump of young beef and cut off the fag end, lard the low pait with fat bacon, and ftufl the other part witli Aired parfley; put it into your pan with two or three quarts of water, a quart of( *4 ) claret, two or three anchovies, an onion, two or three blades of mace, a little whole pepper, and a hunch of fweet herbs ; (lew it over a flow fire five or fix hours, turning it feveral time* in the ftewing, and keep it clofe covered ; when your beef is enough ■take from it the gravy, thicken part of it wi'h a lump of butter and flour, and put it upon the dffh with the beef. Garnifh the dith with horfe-radifh .and red beet root. There muff be no fait upon the beef, only fait the gravy to your tafle. You may flew part of a brifket, or an ox cheek the fame way. 13. To makeOLiVES of Beef. Take fome flices of a rump (or any other tender piece) of beef, and beat them with a pafle-pin, fea- fon them with nutmeg, pepper and fait, and rub them over with the yolk of an egg; make a little forc’d-meat of veal, beef-fuet, a few bread crumbs, fweet herbs, a little fhred mace, pepper, fait, and two eggs, mixed all together ; take two or three flices of the beef, according as they are in bignefs, and a lump of forc’d-meat the fize of an egg; lay your beef round it, and roll it in part of a kell of veal, put it into an earthen difli, with a little wa- ter, a glafs of claret, and a little onion fhred fmall j lay upon them a little butter, and bake them in an even about an hour; when they come our take off the fa', and thicken the gravy with a little butter and flour ; fix of them are enough for a fide difh. Garnifh thedifh with horfe-radilh and pickles. You may make olives of veal the fame way. 14c To fry Beef-Steaks. Take your beef-fleaks and beat them with the back of a knife, fry them in butter over a quick fire, that they may be brown before they be too much dope; when they arc enough put them intoB 2 an earthen pot whilft you have frv’d them all ; pour out the fat, and put them into vour pan with a lit- tle gravy, an onion (hredvery final!, a fpoenfnl of catchup, and a little fait ; thicken it witli a little butter and flour, the thicknefs ot cream. Garnilh your dilh with pickles. Becf-fleaks are proper for a fide dilh. 17. Beef-Steaks another>way. Take your beef fteaks and beat them with the back of a knife, ftrew them over with a little pep- per and fait, lay them on a gridiron over a clear fire, turning ’em whilft enough ; fet your dilh over a chafing dilh of coals, with a little brown gravy ; chop an onion or fhalot as fmall as pulp, and put it among!! the gravy ; (if your (leaks be not over much done, gravy will come therefrom) put it on a dilh and (hake it all together. Garnilh your difh with fhalots and pickles. 16. A Shoulder of Mutton forc’d. Take a pint of oyfters and chop them, put in a few' bread crumbs, a little pepper, Aired mace, and an onion, mix them ail together, and fluff your mutton on both Tides, then roafl it at a flow fire, and bade it with nothing but butter; put into the dripping-pan a little water, two or three fpoon- fuls of the pickle of oyflers, a glafs of claret, an onion Hived fmall, and an anchovy ; if your liquor wafle before your mutton is enough, put in a little more water ; when the meat is enough, take up the gravy, fkim off the fat, and thicken it with flour and butter j then ferve it up. Cjarnifli your difh with horfe-radjfh and pickles. 17. To flew a Fillet ofMurTON. Take a fillet of mutton, fluff it the fame as for a fhouider, half roafl it? and put it into a' flew-pan( iG ) with a little gravy, a jill of claret, an anchovy, and a fhred onion; you mav put in a little horfe-radifh and feme mufhrooms; (tew it over a (low fire while the mutton is enough ; take the gravy, fkim off the far, and thicken it with flour and butter ; lav forc’d- meat halls round the mutton. Garnifh \our dilli with horfe-radifh and mufhrooms. It is proper either for a fide-difhor boitom-difh; if you have it fbr a bottom dilh, cut your mutton into two fillets. 18. To Collar a Breast of Mutton. Take a bread of mutton, bone it, and feafon it with nutmeg, pepper and fait, rub it over with the yolk of an egg ; make a little forc’d-meat of veal or mutton, chop it with a little beef-fuet, a few bread-crumbs, fweet herbs, an onion, pepper and fait, a little nutmeg, two eggs, and a fpoonful or two of cream *, mix all together, and lav it over the mutton, roll it up and bind it about with coarfe incle ; put it into an earthen dilh with a li'tle wa- ter, dredge it over with flour, and lay upon it a little water $ it will require two hours to bake it. When it is enough, take up the gravy, fkim off the fat, put in an anchovy and a fpoonful of catchup, thicken it with flour and butter ; take the incle from the mutton and cut it into three or four rolls; pour the fauce upon the dilh, and lay about it forc’d-meat balls. Garnifh your difh with pickles. It is eitther proper for a fide or bottom difh. 19. To Collar a Breast of Mutton another Way. R Take a bread of mutton, bone it, and feafon it with nutmeg, pepper and fait; roll it up tight with coarfe incle, and road it upon a (pit ; when it is enough lay it whole upon the difh. Then take (our or fix cucumbers, pare them and cut them in flices, not very thin; likewife cut threo or four in quar-{ 17 ) ters length way, flew them in a little brown gravy and a little whole pepper ; when they are enough, thicken them with flour and butter the thicknefs of eream j fo ferve it up. Garnilh your difh with horfe radilh. 20. To Carbonade a Breast of Mutton. Take a bread of mutton, half boil it, nick it acrofs, feafon it with pepper and fait : then broil it before the fire whilfl it be enough, ihinkliog it over with bread crumbs ; let the fau'ce be a little gravy and butter, and a few lhredcapers : put it upon the difh with the mutton. Garnilh it with horfe-radifh and pickles. This is proper for a fide-difh at noon, or a bot- , tom dilh at night. Si. A Chine of Mutton roafled with dew’d Celery. Takes loin of mutton, cut off the thin part and both ends, take ofF the fkin, and fcore it in the loading as you would do pork ; then take a little celery, boil it, and cut it in pieces about an inch long, put to it a little good gravy, whole pepper and fait, two or three fpoonfuis of cream, and a lump of butter, fo thicken it up, and pour it upon your difh with your mutton. This is proper for a fide difh. 22. Mutton Chops. / Take a leg of mutton half roafled, when it is cold cut it in thin pieces as you would do any other meat for hafhing, put it into a flew-pan with a lit- tle water or fmall gravy, two or three fpoonfuis of claret, two or three fhalots Aired, or onions, and two or three fpoonfuis of oyfler piclde ; thicken it with a little flour, and fo ferve it up. Garnilh your difh with horfe-radifh and pickles. You may do a fhoulder of mutton -the fame way„ •nly boil iht> blade bone, and lie it in the middle,-( iS ) 23. A forc’d Leg of Mutton, Take a leg of mutfon, loofe the fkin from the meat, be careful you do not cut the fkin as you loofen it ; then cut the meat from the bone, and let the bone and fkin hang together, chop the meat frnall, with a little beef-fuet, as you would do faufages ; feafon it with nutmeg, pepper and fait, a few bread crumbs, two or three eggs, a little dry’d fage, fhred parfley, and lemon peel ; then fill up the fkin with forc’d meat, and lay it upon an ear- then difli : lay upon the meat a little flour and butter, and a little water in the difh : it will take an hour and a half baking ; when you difh it up lay about it either mutton or veal collops, with brown gravv fauce. Garnifh your difh with horfe- radilh and lemon. You may make a forc'd leg of lamb the fame way. 24. Tomake French Cutlets of Mutton. Take a neck of mutton, cut it in joints, cut off the ends off the long bones, then fcrape the meat clean off the bones about an inch, take a little of the in-part of the meat of the cutlets, and make it into forc’d-meat ; feafon it with nutmeg, pepper and fait ; then lay it upon your cutlets, rub over them the yolk of an egg, to make it flick ; chop a few fweet herbs, and put to them a few bread crumbs, a little pepper and fait, and drew it over the cutlets, and wrap them in double writing-pa- per *, either broil them before the fire or in an oven, halt an hour will do them ; when vou difh them up, take off the out-paper, and fet in the tnidfl of the difli a little brown gravy in a china bafon ; you ni3y broil them without paper, if you pleafe. 25. To fry Mutton Steaks. Take a loin of mutton, cut off the thin part, then cut 'he reft into fteaks, and flat them with a bill, feafon them with a little pepper and fait, fry( *9 ) them in butter over a quick fire; as you fry them put them into a dew-pan or earthen pot, whilfi you have fried them all; then pour the fat out of the pan, put in a little gravy, and the gravy that comes from the (leaks, with a fpoonfu! of claret, an an- chovy. and an onion or a (halot fhred ; (hake up the (leaks in the gravy, and thicken it with a little flour ; fo ferve them up. Garnilh your difh with horfe-radifh and (halots. 26. To make artificial Venison of Mutton. Take a large fhoulder of mutton, or a middling fore quarter, bone it, lay it in an earthen diih, put upon it a pint of claret, and let it lie all night ; when you put it into your pafty-pan or dilh, pour on the claret that it lay in, with a little water and butter ; before you put it into your pafty-pan, fea- fon it with pepper and fait ; when you make the pally lie no pafte in the bottom of the difh. 27. How to brown Ragout a Breast of Veal. Take a bread of veal, cut offboth the ends, and half road it ; then put^ it into a dew-pan, with a quart of brown gravy, a fpoonful of mufhroom- powder, a blade or two of mace and lemon-peel 5 fo let it flew over a flow fire while your veal is enough •, then put in two or three (hred mufhrootns or oyfters, two or three fpoons full of white-wine; thicken up your fauce with flour and butter ; you may lay round your veal fome dew’d morels and truffles; if you have none, fome pallets dew’d in gravy, with artichoke bottoms cut in quarters, dipt in eggs and fry'A, and fome forc’d -meat h.-IJs von may fry the fweet bread cut in pieces, aud ios over ti e veai, or try d oyllers ; when yui fry your ov tiers you mull dip them in egg ai d flour mixed. Gar» nilh your dilh with lemon and pickles.( 20 ) a8. A Herrico of a Breast of Veal, FrencfrWay^ Take a bread of veal, half road it, then put it into a dew-pan, with three pints of brown gravy ; feafon your veal with nutmeg, pepper and fait ; when your veal is dew’d enough, you may put in a pint of green peas boil’d. Take fix middling cu- cumbers, pare and cut them in quarters long way, alio two cahbage lettuces, and dew them in brown gravy; fo lay them round your veal when you difh it up, with a lew forc’d-meat balls and fome dices of b jc<>n Gamilh your diih with pickles, mufh- ronms, oyd rs, and lemon. 29. To roll a Breast of Veal. Take a bread of ' eal, and bone it, feafon itwith nutmeg, pepper and fair, rub it over with the yolk of an egg, then drew it over with fweet herbs fhred fmall, and fome dices of bacon, cut thin to lie upon it, roll it up very tight, bind it with coarfe incle, put it into an earthen difh with a little wa- ter, and lav upon it, fome lumps of butter ; drewr a little feafoning on the outfide of your veal, it will take two. hours baking; when it is baked take off the incle and cut it in four rolls, lay it upon the difh with a good brown gravy fauce ; layabout your veal the fweet bread fry’d, fome forc’d meat balls, a little crilp bacon, and a few fry’d ovders, if you have any ; fo fervc it up. Garnilh your didi with pickles and lemon. 30. A Ih-w’d Breast of Veal. Take the fatted and whited bread of veal you can yet, cut off both ends and boil them for a lit- tle gravy ; take the veal and raife up the thin part, make a foic’d-meatof the iweet bread boil’d, a few ** b<< ah nemos, a little beef fuet, two eggs, pepper and (ait, a Ipoontul or two of cream, and a little nutmeg,, mix’d all together ; fo duff the veal, lktw- cr me lkin dole down, dredge it over with flour,.\ ( 21 ) tie it tip in a cloth, and boil it in milk and water about an hour. For the fauce take a little gravy, about a jill of oyfters, a few mufbrooms fhred, a little lemon peel fhred fine, and a little juice ot le- mon ; fo thicken it up with flour and butter ; when you difh it up pour the fame over it ; lay over it a fweet bread or two cut in flices and fry’d, and fry d oyfters. Garnifh your dilh with lemon, pickles and nnifhrooms. . This is pr per for a top difh either at noon or night. 31. To ftew a Fillet of Veal. Take the leg of the belt white veal, cut off the dug and the knuckle, cur the reft into two fillets, and take the fat part and cut it in pieces the thick- nefs of your finger: you muft fluff the veal with the fat ; make the hole with a penknife, draw it through and fkewer it round, feafon it with pepper, fait, nutmeg, and fhred parflty ^ then put it into your ftew pan, with half a pound of butter, fwith- out water) and let it on your ftove ; let it boil very flow, and cover it clofe up, turning it very often ; it will take about two hours in dewing ; when it is enough pour the gravy from it, take off the fat, put into the gravy a pint of oyfters and a few ca- pers, a little lemon peel, a fpoonful or two of white wine, and a little juice of lemon ; thicken it * with butter and flour, the thicknefs of cream ; lay round it forc’d meat balls and oyfters fry’d, and fo ferve it up. Garnifh your difh with a few capers and flic’d lemon. 32. To make Scotch Collops. .Take a leg of veal, take off the thick part, cut it in thin flices for collops, beat them with a palie- pin till they are very thin ; feafon them with mace, pepper and lab , fry them over a quick file, not ever brown j when they are fried put them into( 22 ) flew pan with a little gravy, two or three fpoonfuls of white wine, two fpoonfuls of oyfler pickle, if you have it, and a little lemon peel ; then fhak' them over a ftove in a (lew pan, but don’t let them boil I] over much, it only hardens your collops : take the 1 fat part of your veal, fluff it with forc’d meat, and boil it 5 when it is boiled lay it in the middle of your difh with the collops ; lay about your collops flices ofcrifp bacon, and forc’d-meat balls. Gar- nifh your difh with flices of lemon and oyflers, or mufhrooms. 33. To make Veal Cutlets. Take a neck of veal, cut it in joints, and flatten | them with a bill ; cut off the ends of the bones, and lard the thick part of the cutlets with four or five H bits of bacon j feafon it with nutmeg, pepper and H fait ; flrew over them a few bread crumbs, and fweet herbs fhred fine ; firfl dip the cutlets in egg || to make the crumbs flick, then broil them before 1 the fire, put to them a little brown gravy fiauce j I fo ferve it up. Garnlfh yonrdifh with lemon. 34. Veal Cutlets another Wav. Take a neck of veal, cut it in joints, and flat them as before, and cut off the ends of the 'oug bones ; feafon them with a little pepper, fait, and H nutmeg ; broil them on a gridiron, over a flow fire ; I when they are enough, ferve them up with brown 1 gravy fauce and forc’d meat balls. 35, Veal Cutlets another Way. Take a neck of veal and cut it in flices, flatten H them as before, and cut off the ends of the long H bones j feafon the cutlets with pepper and fall, and dredge over them feme flour ; fry them in butter over a quick fire ; when they are enough put from them the fat they wert fried in, and put to them a I little frnall gravy, a fpoonful of catchup, a fpoon-( 23 ) ful of white wine or juice of lemon, and grate in fdme nutmeg ; thicken them with flour and butter, fo ferve them up. Garnifli your difli as before. 36. To Collar a Calf’s-Head to eat hot. Take a large fat head, and lay it in water to take cut the blood ; boil it whilfl the bones will come out ; feaion it with nutmeg, pepper and fait ; then wrap it up round with a large lump of forc’d-meat made of veal; after which wiap it up tight in a veal kell before it is cold, and take great care that you don’t let the head break in two pieces; then bind it up with coarie incle, lay it upon an earthen difli, dredge it over with flonr, and lay over it a little butter, with a little water in the ; till; an hour and a half will bake it; when it is enough take o'ff the incle, cut i1 in two length w ays, laying the fkin- fide uppermolt ; when you lay it upon your dtfh you muft lay round it flew’d pallets and artichoke-bot- toms fry’d with forc’d-meat balls; put to it brown gravy fauce ; you may brown your fauce with a few truffles or morels, and lay them about your veal. Garnifh your difh with iemon and pickle. 37. To Collar a Calf’s-Head to eat cold. You muff get acalf’s-head with the fkin on, fplit it arid lay it in water, take out the tongue and eyes, cut off the groin ends, then tie it t p in a cloth and boil it whilit the bones come out ; w hen it is enough lay it on a table with the fkin fide t pptrmofl, and pour upon it a little cold water; then take off the haii and cut off the ears ; mind you do not break the head in two, turn it < ver and take out the bones; fair ir very well and wrap it tound in a cloth very P‘n '* with pins, and tie it at both ends, fo bind tt up with broad incle, then hang it up by c.ne( 24 ) fend, and when it is cold take it out ; y#u mud make for it brown pickle, and it will keep half a year ; when you cut it, cut it at the neck. It is proper for a fide or middle difh, either for noon or night. 38. To make a Calf’s-Head Hash. Take a calf’s-head and boil it, when it is cold take one half of the head and cut off the meat in thin flices, put it into a fiew pan with a litile brown gravy, put to it a fpoonful or two of walnut pickle, a fpoonful of catchup, a little claret, a little fhred mace, a few capers fhred, or a little mango; boil it over a ffove, and thicken it with butter and flour; take the other part of the head, cut off the bone ends and fcore it with a knife, feafon it with a lit- tle pepper and fait, rub it over with the yolk of an egg, and ftrew over a few bread crumbs and a little parfley; then fet it before the fire to broil whilft it is brown ; and when you difh op the other part lay this in the midfl: ; lay about iyour hafh, brain- cakes, forc’d meat balls, and crifp bacon. To make Brain-Cakes ;—Take a handful of bread crumbs, a little fhred lemon peel, pepper, fait, nut- meg, fweet marjoram, parfley fhred fine, and the yolks of three eggs ; take the brains and fkin them, boil and chop them fmall, fo mix them all toge- ther ; take a little butter in your pan when you fry them, and drop them in as you do fritters, and if they run in your pan, putin a handful more of bread crumbs. 39. To Hafh a Calf’s-Head White. Take a calf’s-head and boil it as much as you would do for eating, when it is cold cut it in thin flices, and put it into a flew pan with a white gra- vy ; then put to it a little Hired mace, fait, a pint of oyftcrs, a few Hired mulhroums, lemon-peel,( 25 ) three fpoonfuls of white wine, ana iome juice of lemon, fhake all together, and bod it over the Hove, thicken it up with a little Hour and butter ; when you put it on your dilh, you mull, put a boil d fowl ill the mid a, and a few dices of crifp bacon. Garndh your dilh with pickles and lemon. 40. A Ragout ot a Calf’s Head. Take two calves’ heads and boil them as you do for eating, when chey_ are cold cut off all the lan- tern part from theflelh, in piece^ above an inch long, and about the breadth of your little finger ; put a into your Hew pan with a little white gravy ; wen- ty oyfters cut in two or three pieces, a w Hired mufnrooms, and a little juice of lemon ; feafon it with Hired mace and fait, let them all boil together over a Hove ; take two or three fpoonfuls oi cream, the yolks ot two or three eggs, and a little Hired pavHey, then put it into a Hew pan ; after you have put the cream in you may lhake it all the while ; if you let it boil it will curdle ; fo ferve it up. Garnilh your dilh with Hppets, lemon, and a lew pickled mulhrooms. 41. To roaft a Calf’s Head to eat like Pig. Take a calf’s head, wafh it well, lay it in an earthen difn, and cut out the tongue, lay it Ioofe under the head in the dilh with the brains, and a little fage and paifley ; rub the head over with the yolk ot an egg, then drew over them a few bread crumbs and Hired parhey, lay all over it lumps of butter and a little lalt, then fet it in the oven ; it will take about an hour and a half baking ; when it is enough take the brains, fage and parlley, and chop them together, put to them the gravy that is in the dilh, a little butter, and a fpoonful of vine- gar, fo boil it up and put it in cups, and fet them 0round the head upon the difh, take the toneme and blanch it, cut it in two, and lay it on each fide of the head, and fome dices of crifp bacon over the head; foferveit up. 42. Sauce fora Neck of Veal. Fry your veal, and when fried put in a little wa- ter, ,an anchovy, a few Tweet herbs, a little onion,, nutmeg, a little lemon-peel fhred fmall, and a lit- tle white wine or ale then diake it up with a iittle butter and flour and fome cockles and capers. 43. Tolioil a Leg of Lamb, with the Loix fry’d about ft. When vour lamb is boiled lay it in the difh, and pour upon it a little pardev, butter, and green goofeberries coddled, then lav your fried lamb round it ; take fome fmall afparagus and cut it i mall like peafe, and boil-it'green ; when it is boil- ed drain it in a cullender and lay it round your lamb in fpoonfuls. ¥ Garnifh your difh with goofeberries, and heads of afparagus in lumps. This is proper for a bottom difii. 44. A Leg of Lamb boiled with Chickens round it. When your lamb is boiled pour over it parflev and butter, with coddled goofeberries, fo lay the chickens round your lamb, and pour over the chickens a little white tricafiee lauce. Garnifh your difh with fippets and lemon. This is proper for a top difh. 4.3. A Fiicalfee of Lamb white* Take a leg oflamb, half road it, when it is cold cut it in flices, put it into a (lew-pan with a little white gravy, a lhalot Hired fine, a little nutmeg, fait, and a few (hied capers ; let it boil over he dove whilft 1 lie lamb is enough; to thicken your iauce, take three fpoonfuls of cream, the yolks ofC 2 ( ~7 ) two eggs, a little fined parfley, and beat them well together, then put it into your ftew-pan and lh-ake it wlillft it is thick, hut don’t let it boil; it this do not make it thick, put in a little flour and butter, fo ferve it up. Garnifh your difh with mufhrooms, oyllers and lemons. a6, A brown Frieaflee of Lamb. x Take a leg of lamb, cut it in thin flices and fea- fon it with pepper and fair, then try it brown with butter, when it is fried put it into your ftew-pan, with a little brown gravy, an anchovy, a fpoonful or two of white wine or claret, grate in a little nut- meg, and fet it over the ftove, thicken your Luce with flour and butter, viarnifh your difh with mulh- rooms, oyfters and lemon. 47, To make Pig eai like Lamb in Winter, Take a pig about a month old and chefs it, lav it down to the fire, when the fkm begins to harden you mult take it off by pieces and w hen you have taken all the fkin off, draw it, and when it is cold cut it in quarters, and lard it with parfley then roait it for ufe. 48. How to flew a Hare. Take a young hare, wafli and wipe it well, cut the legs into two or three pieces, and all the other parts the fame bignefs, beat them all Hat with a pafle-pin, feafon it with nutmeg and fait, then flour it over, and fry it in butter over a quick fire ; when you have fried it put it into a {lew-pan, with about a pint of gravy, two or three fpoonfuls of claret and a Imall anchovy, fo fhake it up with butter and flour, (you muff not let it hoi! in the ftew-pan, for it will make it cut hard; then ferve it up. Gatuiih your difh with crii'p parfley., '( 28 ) qq. How to Jug a Hare. Take a young hare, cut her in pieces as you did for Hewing, and beat it well, feafon it with the fame feafoning you did before, put it into a pitch- er or any other clofe pot, with half a pound of but- ter, let it in a pot of boiling water, Hop up the pitcher dole with a cloth, and lay upon it fome weight for fear it Ihould fall on one fide ; it will take about two hours in (tewing ; mind y >ur pot be lull of water, and keep it boiling all the time ; when n is enough take the gravy from it, clear off the fat, and put her into your gravy in a (lew-pan with a fpooniul or two of white wine, a little juice or lemon, (hred lemon-peel and mace ; you muff thicken it upas you would a white tricadee, Gar- rti(h your dilh with fippets and lemon. 50, To road a Hare with a pudding in the belly. When you have walk’d the hare, nick the legs in the joints, and lkewer them on noth Tides, which will keep her trom drying in the roalling; when you have fkewered her, put the pudding into her belly, bade her with nothing but butter ; put a lit- tle water in the dripping pan ; you mud not bade it with the water at all. Wh n \our hare is enough, take the gravy out of the dripping p n, and thicken it up with a little flour and butter tor the fauce. To make a Pudding for the Hare. Take the liver, a little beef diet, fweec.marjo- ratn and parfley (hred fmall, with bread crumbs and two eggs ; feafon it with nutmeg, pepper and lalt to your tadc, mix all together, and if h be ioo ififf put in a fpoonful or two of cream. You muli not boil the liver. ^I. To make a brown fricaflee of Rabbits. Take a rabbit, cut the legs in three pieces each, and the remainuer ot the rabbit the fame bignels, beat them thin and try them in butler over a quickC 29 ) C 3 fire ; when they are fried put them into a ftew-pan with a little gravy, a fpoonful of catchup, and a little nutmeg : then lhake it up with a little flour and butter. Garnifh your difh with crifp parfley. 52. A white Fricaflee of Rabbits. Take a couple of young rabbits and half roaft them ; when they are cold take off the fkin, and cut the rabbits in (mall pieces (only take the white part) when you have cut it in pieces, put it into a flew pan with wdiite gravy, a fmall anchovy, a little onion, fhred mace, and lemon peel, fet it over a ftove, and let it have one boil, then take a little cream, the yolks of two eggs, a lump of but- ter, a little juice of lemon and Ihred parfley ; put them all together into a ftew-pan, and fliake them over the fire whilit they be as white as cream •, you muft not let it boil, if you do it will curdle. Gar- Tiifh your difh with fhred lemon and pickles. 53. Howto make pulled Rabbits. Take two young rabbits, boil them very tender, and take off all the white meat, and pull off the fkin, then pull it all in (hives, and put it into your ftew-pan with a little white gravy, a fpoonfnl of white wine, a little nutmeg and fait to your tafte ; thicken it up as you would a white fricaflee, but put in no parfley ; when you ferve it up lay the heads in the middle. Garnifh your difli with ihred lemon and pickles. £4. To drefs Rabbits to look like Moor-Game. Take a young rabbit, when it is cafed cut off the wings and the head ; leave the neck of your rab- bit as long as you can ; when you calc it yon muft: leave on the feet, pull off the fkin, leave on the •claws, fo double yeur rabbit and fkevver it like «t.t 3® ) fowl ; put a fkcwer at the bottom through the legs and neck, and tie it with a firing, it will prevent its flying open ; when you difh it up make the fame fauce as you would do for partridges. Three are enough for one di(h. 55. To make white Scotch Collops. Take about four pounds of a fillet of veal, cut it in fmall pieces as thin as you can, then take a flew-pan, butter it well over, and (hake a little flour over it, then lay your meat in piece by piece, while all your pan be covered ; take two or three blades of mace, and a little nutmetr, fet your (lew- pan over the fire, tofs it up together ’till all your meat be white, then take half a pint of ftrong veal broth, w hich mud be ready made, a quarter of a pint ot cream, and the yolks of two eggs, mix all thefe together, put it to your meat, keeping it tof- fing all the time, ’till they juft boil up, then they are enough the laft: thing you do fqueeze in a little lemon. You may put in oyfiers, mufhrooms, or what you will to make it rich. 5^. To boil Ducks with Onion Sauce. Take two fat ducks, feafon them With a little pepper and fab, and fkewer them up at both end', and boil them whilft they are tender; take four or five large onions and boil them in milk and water, change the water two or three times in the boiling, when they are enough chop them very fmall, and rub them through a hair fievc with the back of a fpoon, 'till you have rubbed them quite through, then mi It a little butter, put in your onions and a lit le fair, and pour it upon your ducks. Garnifh yourdifh with onions and lippets. 5-. To flew Ducks either wild or tame. Take wo ducks and hJf rnaft -hem, cut them up 3* » w ">h' do ‘nr eating, then put them into a flew pan with a mile brown gravy, a glals of da-( 31 ) ret, two anchovies, a fmall onion fhred very fine, and a little fab; thicken it up with flour and but- ter, foferveitup Garnifh your difh with a little raw onion and fippets. 58. To make a white FricafTee of Chickens. Take two or three chickens, half roaft them, cut them up as you would do for eating, and {kin them ; put them into a ftevr-pan with a little white gravy, juice of lemon, two anchovies, fhred mace and nutmeg, then boil it ; take the yolks of three eggs, a little fweet cream and fhred parfley, *,mt them into your ftew-pan with a lump of butter and a little fait ; (hake them all the while they are over the ftove, and be furs you do not let them boil left they fhould curdle. Garnifh your dilh with fippets and lemon. 59. How to make a brown FricafTeeof Chickens. Take two or more chickens, as you wouid have your dtfh in bignefs, cut them tip as you do for > at- ing, and fiat them a little with a paftepin ; fry them a light brown, and put them into your h w- pan with a little gravy, a fpoonful or two of white wine, a little nutmeg and /a * ; thicken it up with flour and butter. Gaitiiih your .dilh with tippets and crifp parfley. 60. Chicken Surprise. Take half a pound ot rice, fet it over a fire in foit wa;ei, when it is halt boiled put in two or three Imull chickens trufs’d, with two or three blades of mace, and a little lalt ; take a piece of bacon about three inches fquan, and boil it in wa'er whilft almofl enough, then take it out. pare off the out tides, and put it into the chickens ami 10 <> boil a lutle together ; (you mull not let the broth be over thick with nc. ) then t ke up your chickens, Jay them 01 a ,hlh, p..ur over them the rice, cut bacon in thin lliccs to Jay round youi chick-< 32 ) ens, and upon the bread of each a flice. This i<? proper for a fide difh. 61. To boil Chickens. T ake four or five fmall chickens, as you would have your difh in bignds ; if they be fmall ones you may Icald ill m, ii will make them whiter ; drau them, and lake out the breaff bone before you fcald them ; when you have drefTed them, put them it to milk and water, and wafh them, trufs them, ai.d c toff the heads and necks ; if you drefs them the night before you ufe them, dip a cloth in milk and wrap them in it, which will make them white; yri! mult boil them in milk and water, with a little fait ; half an hour or lefs will boil them. To make Sauce for the Chickens. Take the necks, gizzards and livers, boil them in water, when they are enough drain off the gra- vy, and put to it a fnoonful of oyller-pickle ; take the livers, break them fmall, mix a little gravy, and rub them thro’ a hair fieve with the back of a fpoon then put to it a fpoonful of cream, a little lemon and lemon-peel grated ; thicken it up with butter and flour. Let your fauce be no thicker than cream, w hich pour upon your chickens. Garnifb. your difh with fippets, mufhrooms, and flices of lemon. They are proper for a fide-difh or a top-difh, ei- ther at noon or night. 62. How to boil a Turkey. When your turkey’s drefs’d and drawn, trufs her cut off her feet, take down the bread bone with a kme, and few up the (kin again 5 fluff the breaft with a white fluffing.- ( 33 ) J-fozo to make the fluffing* I ake tne fwcct-bread cf veal, boil it, fhred it fine, with a little beef-fuet, a handful of bread-crumbs, a little lemon-peel, part of the liver, a fpoonful or two of cream, with nut- meg, pepper, fait, and two eggs ; mix all together and5fluff vour turkey with part of the fluffing, (the reft you may either boil or fry to lay round it) dredge it with a little flour, tie it tip i-n a cloth, and boil it in milk and water. If it be a young turkey, an hour will boil it. How to male Sauce for the Turkey. Take a little fmall white gravy, a pint of oyfters, two or three fpoonfuls of cream, a little juice of lemon, and fait to your tafle, thicken it up with flour and butter, then pour'it over your turkey, and ferve it up ; lay round your turkey fryM oyfters, and the forc’d-meat. Garni lit your difh with oyfters, mufhrooms, and llices of lemon 63. How to make another Sauce for a Turkey. Take a little ftrong white gravy, with fome of the whiteft celery you can get, cut it about an inch long, boil it whilft it be tender, and put it into the gravy, with two anchovies, a little lemon-peel fhred, two or three fpoonfuls of cream, a little fhred mace, and a fpoonful of white wine ; thick- en it tip with flour and butter j it you diflike the celery you may put in the liver as you did for chickens. 64. How to road a Turkey. Take a turkey, drefs andtrufs it, then take down the bread: bone. To make fluffing for the breafl. Take beef-fuctr the li.’er fhred fine and bread-crumbs, a little lemon- peel, nutmeg, pepper and fait to your tafte, a little fhred parfley, a fpoonful or two of cream, and two eggs. Put her on a fpit and roaft hex before a flovv{ 34 ) fire ; you may lard your turkey with fat bacon ; if the turkey be young, an hour and a quarter will roaft it. For the fauce, take a little white gravy, an onion, a few bread crumbs, and a little whole pepper, let them boil well t 'gather, put o them a little flour and a lump of butter, which pour upon the turkey ; you may lay round your turkey forc’d- naeat balls, Garnifh your difli with flices of lemon. 65. To make a rich Turkey Pie. Take a young turkey, and bone it, only leave in the thigh bones and fhort pinion1- ; take a large fowl and bone it, a little thred mace, nutmeg, pep- per and fait, and feafon the turkey and fowl in the inftiie; lay the fowl in the infide of the low part of the turkey, and fluff the breaft with a little white fluffing (the fame white fluffing as you made for the boiled turkey, take a deep difli, lay a pafte over it, and lay no pafle in the bottom ; lay in the turkey, and lay round it a few forc’d-meat balls, put in half a pound of butter, andajill of water, then clofe up the pie, an hour and a half will bake it ; when it comes from the oven take off the ltd, put in a pint of flew’d oyfters, and tr.e yolks of fix or eight eggs, lay theniat equal diflances round the turkey; you mud,not flew your ovfters in gravy but in wa- ter, and pour them upon your turkey’s bread ; lay round fix or eight artichoke bo toms fry ’d, fo ferve it up without the lid; you mult take the fat out of the pie before you putrin the oyfters. 66. To make a Turkey A-la-daube* Take a large turkey and irufsit ; take down the breaft bone anil fluff it in the breaft with fome fluf- fing, as you did the roaft turkey ; lard it with ba- con, then rub the (kin of the turkey witti the yolk of an egg, and drew over it a little nutmeg, pep-( 35 ) ptr, fait, and a few bread-crumbs, then put it int® a copper diih and fend ir to the oven ; when you dilh it up make f r the turkey brow n gravy fauce, fllicd into you. fauce a ew . ytt rs and ■ i>*i otns ; lay round artichoke-bottoms Ir ' i, IK a pallets, forc’d-meat balls, and a little cr fp bacon Gar- nifh your difh with pickled mufhrooms, and flices of lemon. This is a proper difh tor a remove. 67. Potted Turkey. Take a turkey, bone her as you did for the pie, and feafon it very well in the infide and outfide with mace, nutmeg, pepper and fait, then put it into a pot that you defign to keep ir in, ut over it a pound of butter, when it is baked dra- from it the gravy and take off t fat then Iq .eeze it down very tight in the pot, and to keep it d n fay upon it a weight; when it is cold take pan o the buffer that came from it, and clarify a little more with it to cover your turkey, and keep it in a cool place for tife ; you may put a fowl in the belly if you pleafe. ' * Ducks or geefe ate potted the fame way. 6b. How to jugg Pigeons. Take fix or eight pigeons and trufs them, feafon them with nutmeg, pepper and fair. lo make a fluffing, l ake the livers and fhred them with beer-fiiLt, breadcrumbs, parfley, fweet-mar- joram, and two eggs, mix all together, then fti ff your pigeons, fewing them up at both ends, and put them into y-nr ju ;g with the bread downwards, with half a n und 01 butter , flop up the jufeg clofe w*'h ac,oth 10 that no.fleam can get out, then fet ' pot of water to boil ; they will take about two hours dewing; mind you keep your not full oGouer, and boiling all the time ; when they c- hi11 clear from them the gravy, and .;l)ef 36 ) fat clean off; put to your gravy a fpoonfu! of cream, a little leinon-peel, an anchovy fhred, a few muth- rooms, and a little white wine, thicken it with a. little flour and butter, then di(h up your pigeons, and pour over them the fauce. Garnilh the difh. with tnufhrooms and dices of lemon. This is proper for a fide difh 69. Mirranaded Pigeons. Take fix. pigeons, and trufs them as you would do for baking, break the bread bones, feafon and duff them as yon did for jogging, put them into a little deep difh and lay over them half a pound of butter; put into your difh a little water. Take half a pound of rice, cree it foft as you would do for eating, and pour it upon the back of a fieve, let it dand while it is cold, then take a fpo >n and Hat it like pade on your hand, and lay on the bread of every pigeon a cake ; lay round v >ur dilh Pome puff' pade not over thin, and fend them to the oven; about half an hour will bake them. * This is proper at noon for a fide difh. 70. To dew Pigeons. Take your pigeons, feafon and duff them, flat the bread bones, and trufs them up as you would do for baking, dredge them over with a little flour, and fry them in butter, turning them round till all fides be brown, then put them into a dew-pan with as much brown gravy as will cover thtm, and let them flew while )our pigeons be enough; then | take part of the gravy, an anchovy t‘:rcd, a little catchup, a fmall onion, or a tlialot, and a little juice of lemon for fauce, pour it over your pigeons, and lay round them forc’d-meat balls and crilp ba- con. Garnifh [your dilh with crifp parfley and | lemon. 1 71. To broil Pig eons whole. Take your pigeons, feafon and fluff them with the fame duffing you did jugg’d pigeons, broil them( 37 ) 'either before the fire or in an oven, when they are enough, take thegravv from them, and take off the fat, then put to the gravy two or three fpoonfuls of water, a little boil’d parfley Oared, and thicken, your fauce. Garnilh your dilh with crifp parfley. 72. Boiled Pigeons with fricaflee fauce. Take your pigeons, and when you have drawn and trufs’d them up, break the bread bones, and lay them in milk and water to make them white, tie them in a cloth and boil them in milk and wa- ter; when you dilh them up put to them white fri- caflee fauce, only adding a few fhred mulhrouir.s. Garnilh with crifp parfley and fippets. 73. To pot Pigeons. Take your pigeons and fkewer them with their feet crofs over the bread, to Hand up ; feafon them ■with pepper and fait and road them ; fo put them into your pot, fetting the feet up ; when they are cold cover them up with clarified butter. 74. To dew Pallets. Take three or four large bead pallets and boil them very tender, blanch and cut them in long pieces the length of your finger, then in fmall bits the croft way ; ihake them up with a little good gravy arid a lump of butter ; fealon them with a hide nutmeg and fait, put in a fpoonful of white wine, and thicken it with the yolks of eggs as you do a white fricalfee. 75. To make fricadee of Pig’s Ears. i akc three or four pig’s ears, according as you would have your dilh in bignefs, clean and boil them very tender, cut them in itnall pieces the D( 3* ) length of your finger, and fry them with butter till they be brown ; fo put them into a ffew-pan with a little brown gravy, a lump of butter, a fpoonful of vinegar, and a little mudard and fait, thicken- ed with Hour ; take two or three pig’s feet and boil them very tender, fit for eating, then cut them in two and take out the large bones, dip them in egg, and drew over them a few bread crumbs, feafon them with pepper and fait ; you may either fry or broil them, and lay them in the middle of yourdifh with the pig’s ears. They are proper for a fide difh. 76. To make a fricaffee of Tripes, Take the whited feam tripes you can get, and cut them in long pieces, put them into a ftew-pan xvith a little good gravy, a few bread-crumbs, a lump of butter, a little vinegar to-your tade, and a little rnudard if you like it ; (hake it up altoge- ther with a little lhred parfley. -NGarniih your difh with (ippets. This is proper for a fide difh. 77. To make a fricaffee of Veal Sweet Breads. I Take five or fix veal fweet-breads, according as you would have yourdifh in bignefs, and boil them in water, cut them in thin dices the length way, dip them in egg, feafon them w ith pepper and fait, fry them a light brown ; then put them into a dew- pan with a little browm gravy, a fpoonful of white wine or juice of lemon, whether you plcafe ; thick- en it up w'itli flour and butter, and ferve it up. Gar- niih your difh with crifp parfley. 78. To make a white fiicaflee of Trip.es to eat 1 like Chickens. Take the whited and tfec thicked feam tripe you can get, cut the white part in thin dices, put it into a ftew-pan with a little white gravy, juice of lemon,f 39 ) gnd Icmon-pcel fhred, alfe a fpoonful of white wine ; take the yolks of two or three eggs and beat them very well, pnt to tnem a little thick cream, fhred parley, and two or three chives if you have any ; fhake altogether over the ftove while it he as thick as cream, but don’t let it boil for fear it cur- dle. Garnifh your difh with fippets, diced lemon crmufhrooms, and ferve it up. 79. To make a brown frical&e efEcos. Take eight or ten eggs, according to the Wgnefs you defign your difh, buii them hard, put them in water, take off the fhell, fry them in butter whilst they be a deep brown, put them into a (tow-pan with a little brown gravy, and a lump of butter, fo thicken it up with flour; take two or three eggs, lay them in the middle of the difh, then take the other? cut them in two, and fet them with the (mall ends upwards round the diih ; fry feme fippets and lay round them. Garnifh your difh withcrifp parfley. This is proper for a fide dilh in Lent, or any other time. 80. To make a white fricaffee of Eggs. Take ten or twelve eggs, boil them hard and peel them, put them in a ftew-pan with a little white gravy, take the yolks of two or three eg^s, beat them very well, and put to them two or three fpoonfuls of cream, a fpoonful of white wine, a little juice of lemon, fhred parfley, and fait to your tafte ; fhake all together over the ftove ’till it be as thick as cream, but don’t let it boil; take your eggs and lay one part whole on the difh ; the reft cut in halves and quarters, and lay them round yourdilh; you mull not cut them till you lav them on the difh. Garnilh your difh with fippets, aryl ferve it up.( 4o ) 81. To flew Eggs in Gravy. Take a little gravy, pour it into a little pewter <lilh, and fet it over a dove, when it is hot break in as many eggs as will cover the difh bottom, keep pouring the gravy over them with a fpoon tiil they are white at the top, when they are enough drew over them a little fait ; ;ry fome fquare fippets of bread in butter, prick them with thefmall ends up- wards, and ferve them up. They are proper for a fide difh at fupper. S2. How to Collar a piece of B :• eF to eat Cold. Take a flank of beef or pale bone, which you can get, bone it, and take off the inner fkin ; nick your beef about an inch didance, but mind you do not cut through the fkin of the outfide ; then take two ounces of falt-petre and beat it fmall, and take a large handful of common fait and mix them toge- ther, firfl fprinkling your beef over with a little wa- ter, and lay it in an earthen difh, then throw over your fait, fo let it dand, four or five days, then take a pretty large quantity of all forts of mild fweet herbs, pick and fhred them very fmall, take fome bacon and cut it in long pieces the thicknefs of your ringer, then take your beef and lay one layer of ba- con in every nick ; and another of the greens ; when you have done, feafon your beef with a little beat mace, pepper, fait and nutmeg; you may add a little neats tongue and an anchovy in fome of the nicks; fo roll it up tight, bind it in a cloth with coarfe incle round it, put it into a large dew-pot and cover it with water ; let the beef lie with the end downwards, put to it the pickle that was in the beef when it lay in fait, fet it in a flow oven all the night, then take it out and bind it tight, and tie up both ends, the next day take it out of the(: 41 / cloth, and put it into pickle ; you muft take the fame pickle it was baked in ; take ofr the fat and boil the pickle, put in a handful of fait,,a few bay leaves, a little whole Jamaica anil black pepper, a quart of dale ftrong beer, a little vinegar or alegar ; if vou make the pickle very good, it will keep five or fix months very well ; if your beef be not too much baked it will cut all in diamonds. 83. To roll a Breast of Veal to eat cold. Take a large bread of veal, fat and white, bone it and cut it in two, feafon it with mace, nutmeg, pepper and fait, on one part you may firinkle a few fweet herbs, fhred fine, roll them tight up, bind them well with coarfe incle, fo boil it an hour and a half; you may make the fame pickle as you did for the beef, excepting the ftrong beer ; when it is enough take it up, and bind it as you did the beef, fo hang it up whilft it be cold. 84. To pot Tongues. Take your tongues and fait them with falt-petre, common fait and bay fait, let them lie ten days, then take them out and boil them whilft they wilt blanch, cut off the lower part of the tongues, then feafon them with mace, pepper, nutmeg and fait, put them into a pot and fend them to the oven, and the low part of your tongues that you cut off lay upon your tongues, and one pound of butter, let them bake whilft they are tender, then take them out ol the pot, throw over them a little more feafoning, put them into the pot you defign to keep them in, prefs them down very tight, lay over them a weight, and let them Hand all night, then cover them with clarified butter. You muft not fait your tongues as you do for hanging.( 42 ) 85. How to pot Venison. Take your venifon and cut it in thin pieces, fea- fon it with pepper and fait, put it into your pot, lay over it fome butter and a little beef fuet, let it Hand all night in the oven j when it is baked beat it in a marble mortar or wooden bowl, put in part of the gravy, and all the fat you take from it ; when you have beat it put it into your pot, then take the fat lap of a fhoulder of mutton, take rff the out- fkin, and roafl it, when it is roafled and cold, cut it in long pieces the thicknefs of your finger ; when you put the venifon into the pot, put it in at three times, betwixt every one lay the mutton crofs your pot, at an equal diflance ; if you cut it the right way it will cut all in diamonds ; leave fome of the venifon to lay on the top, and cover it with clarified butter ; fo keep it for ufe. 86. To pot all forts of Wild-Fowl. When the wild-fowl are dreffed take a pafte pin, and beat them on the bread till they are flat; be- fore you roafl them feafon them with mace, nutmeg, pepper and fait ; you mud not roafl them over much ; when you draw them feafon them on the outftde, and fet them on one end to drain out the gravy ; and put them into your pot : you may put in two layers ; if you preis them very flat, cover them with clarified butter when they arc cold. 87. How to pot Beef. Take two pounds of the flice or buttock, feafon it with about two ounces of falipctre and a little common fait, let it lie two or three days, fend it to the oven, and feafon i> with a little pepper, fait and mace ; lay over your beef half a pound o: but- ter or bref fuet, and lei it Hand all night in the oven to flew ; take ftom it the gravy at d the but- ter, and heat them Iw ’b the bee in a bowl, then take a quarter of a pounu ul anchovies, bone them( 43 ) and beat them too with a little of the gravy ; if h be not feafoned enough to your tafle, put to it a little more feafoning; put it clofe down in a pot,, and when it is cold cover it up with butter, and keep it for ufe. 88. To ragout a Rump of Beef. Take a rump of beef, lard it with bacon and fpices, betwixt the larding, fluff it with fore d- mear, made of a pound of veal, three quarters of a ponnd of beef-fuet, a quarter of a pound of fat ba- con boiled and flired well by itfelf, a good quanti- ty of parfley, winter favonry, thyme, fweet marjo- ram, and an onion, mix all thefe together, feafon it with mace, cloves, cinnamon, fait, Jamaica and black pepper, and fome grated bread, work the forc’d-meat up with three whites and two yolks of eggs, then fluff it, and lay fome rough fuet in a ftew'-pan with your beef upon it, let it fry till it be brown, then put in fome water, a bunch of fweet herbs, a large onion, fluffed with cloves, fliced tur- nips, carrots cut as large as the yolk of an egg, fome •ivhole pepper and fait, half a pint of claret, cover it clofe, and let it flew fix or feven hours over a gentle fire, turning it very often. 89. How to make Sauce for it. Take truffles, morels, fw<- et-breads, diced pal- lets boiled tender, three anc .ovies, and fome le- mon-peel, put thefe into fome brown gravy and flew them ; if y >u do not think it thick enough, dredge in a little flour, and juft before you pour it on your beef put in a little white wine and vinegar, and ferve it up hot. 90 Sauce for Boi ldd Raebits. Take a few onions, boil them thoroughly, fluff- ing tnem in water oft n, mix them w< |l together with a little meK-d 'nittei a.. l water. Some aud a. little pulp o; apple ana mulUid.( 44 ) 91. To fait a Lfg of Mutton to eat like Ham. Take a leg of mutton, an ounce of faltpetre, two ounces of bay fait, rub it in very well, take a quarter of a pound of coarfe fugar, mix it with two or three handfuls of common fait, then take and fait it ve:y well, and let it lie a week, fait it again, and lot it lie another week, fo hang it up, and keep it for life, after it is dry ufeit, the fooner the better ; it won’t keep fo long as ham. 92. How to fait Ham or Tongues. Take to a middling ham, two ounces of faltpe- tre, a quarter of a pound of bay fait, beat them to- gether, and !ub them on your ham very well, be- fore you fait it on the infide, fet your fait before the fire to warm ; to every ham take half a pound of coarfe fugar, mix it with a little of the fait, and rub it in very well, let it lie for a week or ten days ; then fait it again very well, and let it lie another week or ten days then hang.it to dry, not very near the fire, nor over much in the air. Take your tongues and clean them, and cut off the root, then take two ounces of faltpetre, a quar- ter of a pound of bay fait well beaten, three or four tongues, according as they are in bignefs, lay them on a place by themfclves, for if you lay them under your bacon it flats your tongues, and fpoils them j fait them very well, and let them lie as long as the hams with the fkin fide downwards : You mav do a rump of beef the fame way, only leave out the lugar. 93- To boil a Knuckle ol Veal with Rice. Take a knuckle of veal and a fc<ag of mutton, put them in a kettle with as much water as will co- ver them, and hair a pound of rice ; before you put in the nee let the kettle be fleimm’d very well, it will make the rice the whiter; put in a blade or two of mace, and a little fait, fo let them boil all( 45 ) together, till the rice and meat be thoroughly enough; you mu ft not let the broth be over thick ; ferve it up with the knuckle in the middle ot the o .fti and fippets round it. 94. To (lew Ducks whole. Take ducks when they are drawn and clean waft'd, put them into a ftew-pan with ftrong broth, claret, mace, whole pepper, an onion, an ancho- vy, and lemon-peel ; when well dewed put in a piece of butter and feme grated bread to thicken it ; lay round them crifp bacon and forc’d-meat balls. Garniih with fhalots. 95. TojDot a Hare. Take a hare, cafe, waft, and wipe her dry, cut her in pieces, keep out all the bloody parts and fkins, feafon it with mace, pepper and fait, put it into a pot, and lay over it a pound of beef-fuet, let it ftand all night in a flow oven ; when it is bak- ed take out all the bones, and chop it all together ira a bowl v/ith the fat and gravy that comes from it, put it tight down into a pot, and when cold cover it with clarified butter. If you have no diflike to bacon, you may put in two or three dices when you fend it to the oven, 96. How to make a Hare-Pie. Parboil the hare, take out all the bones, and beat the meat in a mortar with fome fat pork or new ba- con, then loak it in claret all night, the next day take it out, feafon it with pepper, fait and nutmeg, then lay the back bone in the middle of the pie, put the meat about it with about three quarters of a pound of butter, and bake it in puff pafte, but lay no pafte in the bottom of the difli. 97. To make Hare-Pie another way. Take the flefh of a hare after it is fkinned and firing it ; take a pound of beef-fuet or marrow( 46 ) Sired fmall, with fvveet marjoram, parfley and fha- lots, take the hare, cut it in pieces, feafon it with mace, pepper, fait and nutmeg, then bake it et her in cold or hot pafte, and when it is baked open it and put to it fome melted butter. 98, To make Pig Royal. Take a pig and roaft it the fame way as you did for lamb, when you draw it you muft not cut it up ; when it is cold you mud lard it with bacon ; cut not your layers too fmall, if you do they will melt away, cut them about an inch and a quarter long; you mu ft put one row down the back, and one on either fide, then firinkle it over with a tew bread crumbs and a little fait, and fet it in the oven, an hour will bake it, but mind your oven be not too hot ; you muft take another pig ot a Isfs fize, roaft it, cut it up, and lie it on each fide: The fauce you make for a roaft pig will ferve for both. This is proper for a bottom dith at a grand en- tertainment. 99. To roaft Veal a favoury way. When you have duffed your veal, ftrew fome of the ingredients over it ; when it is roafted make your fauce of what drops from the meat, put an an- chovy in water, and when dilfdved pour it into the dripping-pan with a large lump of butter and oy* fters; tofs it up with flour to thicken it. 100. To make a Ham Pie. Cut the ham round, and lay it in water all night, boil it tender as you would do tor eating, take off the fkin, ftrew over it a little pepper, and bake it in a deep dilli, put to it a pint of water, and hail a pound ot butter ; you muft bake it in puff-pafte ; but lay no pafte in the bottom of the dilli ; when, you fend it to the table fend it without a lid.( 47 ) It is proper for a top or bottom difli either Turn- mer or win er. 101. Xo make a Neat’1 T ongue Pie. Xake two or three torques (according as you would have your pie in blgrn Is) cut off the loots and low pans, take the ounces ut fahpttrc, a little bay fait, rub diem very well, lay them n- an earth- en dilh with the Ikin fid dow ards, let them lie for a week or ten da>-, whillt ; • y be very red, tVjpn boil them as tender as you would hav them for eating, blanch ard fir u Ion with a little pepper 3nd fait, fiat them as much as you can, bake them in puff paiie iti a deep dilh, but lay no palfi in the bottom, p 1 to them a little gravy, and half a pound of biuicr ; lay your tpngues ith the wrong fide upwatds, when they are baked turn them, and ferve it up without a lid. 102. To broil Sheep or Hog’s Tongues. B*il, blanch, and lpiit your tongues, feafon them with a little pepper and fait, 'hen dip them in egg, flrew over them a few bread crumbs, and broil them while they are brown *, ferve them ;-p with a little gravy and butter. 103. To Pickle Pork. Cut off the leg, fhoulder pieces, the bloody neck and the fpare-rib, as bare as you can, then cut the the middle pieces as large as they can lie in the tub, fait them with fahpttre, bay fait, and white fait; your faltpetre mult be b-at (mall, and mixed with the other falls •, half a p ck of white fait, a quart of bay lalt, and halt a pound ot faltpitre, is enough . for a large hog ; you muff rub the pork very well with your fait, then lay a thick layer of fait all • over the tub, then a piece of pork, and do fo till all your pork is in ; lay the (kirn fide downwards, fill up the hollows and (ides of the tub with little 1 Pieces tllat are not bloody, prefs all down as clofe as poffible, and lay on a good layer of tyt on the( 48 ) top, then lay on the legs and (houlder pieces, which mult be ufed drib, the reft will keep two years if not pulied up, nor the pickle poured from it.—You mud obferve to fee it be covered with pickle. 104. To fricadee Calf’s Feet white. Drefs the Calf’s feet, boil them as you would do for eating, take out the long bones, cut them in two, and put them into a dew-pan with a little white gravy, and a fpoonful or two of white wine ; take the yolks of two or three eggs, two or three fpoonfuls of cream, grate in a little nutmeg and fait, and (hake all together with a lump of butter. Garnifh your difh with dices of lemon and currants, and fo ferve them tip. 105. To roll a Pig’s Head to eat like Brawn. Take a large pig’s head, cut off the groin ends, crack the bones and put it in water, fltift it once or twice, cut off the ears, then boil it fo tender that the bones will dip out, nick it with a knife in the thick part of the head, throw over it a pretty large handful of fait ; take half a dozen of large neat’s feet, boil them while they be ("oft, fplir them, and . takeout all the bones and black bits : take a ftrong . coarfe cloth, and lay the feet with the (kin hue downwards, with all ihe loofe pieces on the infide ; prefs them w ith your hand to make them of an equal thicknefs, lay them at that length that they will 1, reach round the head, and throw over them a hand- ful of fait, then lay the head acrofs, one thick part one way, and the other another, that the fat may appear alike at both ends ; leave one foot out to lay at the top to make a lantern to reach round, h bind it with filleting as you would do brawn, and . tie it very clofe at both ends ; you may take it out of the cloth the next day, take od the filleting and ( wadi it, wrap it about again very tight, and keep in brawn pickle. . This has often been taken for real brawn.C 49 ) 106. How to fry Calf’s Feet in Butter. Take four calf’s feet and blanch them, boil thena as you would do for eating, take out the large bones and cut them in two, beat a fpoonful of wheat flour and four eggs together, put to it a little nutmeg, pepper and fait, dip in your calf’s feet, and fry them in butter a light brown, and lay them up m your difli with a little melted butter over them. Garniik with flices of lemon r .d ferve them up. 107. To make Savoury Patties. Take the kidney of a loin of veal before it be roafted, cut it in thin dices, feafon it with mace, pepper and fait, and make your patties ; lay in every patty a flice, and either bake or fry them. You may make marrow patties the fame way. 108. To make Egg Pies. Take and boil half a dozen eggs, half a dozen ap- ples, a pound and "a half of beef-fuet, a pound of cur- rants, and thred them, fo feafon it with mace, nutmeg and fugar to your tafle, a fpoonful or two of brandy, and fweet-meats if you pleafe. 109. To make a fvveet Chicken Pie. Break the chicken bones, cut them in little bits, feafon them lightly with mace and fait, take the yolks of four eggs boiled hard and quartered, five artichoke bottoms, half a pound of raifins of the run, floned, halt a pound ot citron, half a pound of lemon, half a pound of marrow, a few torc’d- meat bads, and halt a pound of currants well clean- ed, fo make a light pufl pafle, but put no pafte in the bottom ", when it is baked take a little white wine, a little juice of either orange or lemon, the yolk of an egg well beat, and mix them together, Biake it hot and put it into your pie j when you( 5^ ) ferve it up take the fame ingredients you ufe for » Iamb or veal pie, only leave out the artichokes. nc. To Roaft Tongues. Cut off the roots of two tongues, take three ounces of fahpetre, a little bay-falt and common fait, rub them very 'well, let them lie a week or ten days to make them red, but not fait, fo boil them-tender as they will blanch, drew over them a few bread crumbs, fet them before the fire to brown, and turn them to make them brown on every fide. To make Sauce for the Tongues. Take a few bread crumbs, and as much water as will wet them, then put in claret till they be red, and a little beat cinnamon, fweeten it to your tafte, put a little gravy on the difh with your tongues, and the fweet fauce in two bafons, fet them on each fide, fo ferve them 'tip.. in. TofryCALp’s Feet in Eggs. Boil your call’s feet as you would do for eating, take out the long bones and fplit them in two, when they are cold fcalon them with a little pepper, fait and nutmeg *, take three eggs, put to them a fpoon- ful of flour, fodip the feet in it and fry them in but- ter ; you mud have a little gravy and butter for fauce. Garnifh with currants, fo ferve them up. 3i2. To make a Minc’d Pie of Calf’s Feet. Take two or three calf's feet, and boil them as you would do for eating, take out the long bones, fhred the meat very fine, put to them double their weight of beef-fuet fhred fine, aud about a pound »f currants well cleaned, a quarter of a pound of candied orange and citron cut in fmall pieces, hajf a pound of fugar, a little fait, a quarter o 1 an ounce of mace and a large nutmeg, beat them together, put in a little juice of lemon or verjuice to your( 51 ) tafte, a glafs of mountain wine or fack, whidi you pleafe, fo mix all together ; bake them in puft-ppUe. 113. To Roaft a Woodcock. When you have drelfed your woodcock, and drawn it under the leg, take out the bitter bit, put in the train again ; whilft the woodcock is mailing fet under it an earthen difh with either water in or fmall gravy, let the woodcock drop into it, take the gravy and put to it a little butter, and thicken it with flour; your woodcock will take about ten minutes mailing if you have a bride fire ; when you difh it up lay round it wheat bread toads, and pour the fauce over the toad ; and ferve it up. You may roaft a partridge the fame way, only add crumb fauce in a bafon. 114. To makea Calf’s Head Pie. Take a calf’s head and clean it, boil it as you would do for hafhing, when it is cold cut it in thin flices and feafon it with a little black pepper, nut- meg, fait, a few fhred capers, a few oyfters and cockles, two or three mulhrooms, and green lemon peel, mix them all well together, put them into your pie ; it mud not be a ftanding pie, but baked in a flat pewter difh, with a rim of puff pafte round the edge ; when you have filled the pie with the meat, lay on forc’d meat balls, and the yolks of fome hard eggs, put in a little fmall gravy and butter ; when it comes from the oven take off the lid, put into it a little white wine to your tafle, and ihakeup the pie, fo ferre it up without the lid. 115. To make a Calf’s Foot Pie. Take two or three calf’s feet, according as you would have your pie in bignefs, boil and bone them as yoa would do lor eating, and when cold cuf.ihem E aC 52 ) in thinflices ; take abour three quarters of a pound of beef-fuet (bred fine, half a pound of raiftns fton’d, half a pound of cleaned currants, a little mace and nutmeg, green lemon-peel, fait, fugar, and candid ed lemon or orange, mix altogether, and put them into a difh, make a good puff palle, but let there be no pafte, in the bottom of the tilh ; when it is baked,. take offthe lid, and Iqueeze. in a little le- mon peel or verjuice, cut the lid in fippets and lay round. 116. To make a Woodcock Pie. Take three or four brace of woodcocks, accord- ing as you would have the pie in bigirefs, drefs and fkewer them as you would do for roaiting, draw ihem, and feafon the infide with a little pepper, fait and mace, but don’t wafh them, put the train into the belly again, but nothing elfe, for there is fomeihingin them that gives them a bitterer talle in the baking, than in the roafting, when you put them into the difh lay them with the breaft down- wards, beat them upon the breaft as flat as you can ; you mud feafon them on the ouifide as you do the infide; bake them in puff pafte, but lay none jn the bottom of the dilh, put to them a jilt of gra- vy and a little butter ; you mud be very careful your pie be not too much baked ; when you ferve it up take oft' the lid, and turn the woodcocks with the breaft upwards. You may bake partridge the fame wray. 117. To Pickle Pigeons. Take your pigeons and bone them ; you muffc begin to bone them at the neck and turn the fkin downwards, when they are boned feafon them with pepper, fait and nutmeg, few up both ends, and boil them in water and white wine vinegar, a few bay leaves, a little whole pepper and fait ; when they arc enough take them out of the pickle, and boil( 53 $ it down with a little more fait ; whea it is cold put in the pigeons and keep them for ufe. 1x8. To make a fweet Veal Pie. Take a loin of veal, cut off the thin part length- ways, cut the reft in thin flices, as much as you have occafion for, flat it with your bill, and cut off the bone ends next the chine, feafon it with nut- meg and fait ; take half a pound of raiflns Honed, and half a pound of currants well clean’d, mix all together, and lay a few of them at the bottom of the difh ; lay a layer of meat; and betwixt every layer lay on your fruit, but leaye fomefor the top ; you mull make a puff pafte, but lay none in the bot- tom of the difh ; when you have filled your pie„ putin a jill of water and a little butter, when it is baked have a caudle to put into it. To make the caudle, fee receipt 177. 119. Minc’d Pies another way. Take a pound of the fineft feam tripes yob cau get, a pound and a half of beef fuet, and chop them very fine ; a pound and a half of currants well clean- ed, two, three, or four apples pared and lhred very fine, a little green lemon peel and mace Aired, a -large nutmeg, a glafs of fack or brandy (which you pleafe) half a pound of fugar, and a little fait, fo mix them well together, and fill your petty-pans, then flick five or fix bits of candied lemon or orange in every petty-pan, cover them, and when baked they are fit for ufe. 120. To makeafavoury Chicken Pie. . t'akc half a dozen of fmall chickens, feafon them with mace, pepper and fait, both infide and out ; then take three or four veal fweet breads, feafon them with the fame, and lay round them a few fored-meat balls, put in a little water and butter 5( 54 ) talcs a little white gravy not over ftrong, fhred a. few cyders if you have any, and a Hale lemon-peel, fqueeze in a little lemon juice, not to make it four ; if you ha've nooyfters take the whited or y ur fweet- breads and boil them, cut them fmal! and put them info your gravy, thicken it with a lutie butter and flour ; when you open the pie, if there be any fat, fkim it off, and pour the fauce over the chickens’ breads ; fo ferve it up wjthout a lid. 121. To road a Haunch of Venison. Take a haunch of venifon and fpit it, then take a little bread meal, knead and roll it very thin, lay it over the fat part of your venifon with a paper over it ; tye it round your venifon wdth a pack thread ; if it be a large haunch it will take four hours loading, and a middling haunch three hours ; keep it hading all the time you road it ; when you dilh it up put a little gravy in the difh, and fweet fauce in a bafon ; half an hour before you draw your venifon take off the pade, bade it, and let it be a little brown. 122. To make Sweet Patties. Take the kidney of a loin1 of veal with the fat, when roaded dtred it very fine, put to it a Hale fhred mace, nutmeg and fait, about halt a pound ot cur- rants, the juice of a lemon, and fugar to yotir tade, then bake them in puff pade ; you may either fry or oake them. They are pioperfor a fide-diOi. 123. To make Beef Rolls. Cut vnur beef thin as for Scotch codops, beat it very w-ll, and Uafun it with fait, Jamaica ar.d white pepper, mace, nutmeg, 1'cet-marjoraiti, par- flev, thyme, and a little oni« n fhred ftndl, mb them on the collops on one lidc, then take lung bits( 55 ) of beef fuet and roll in them, tying them up with a thread, flour them well, and fry them in butter very brown ; then have ready fotne good gravy and flew them an hour and a half, ftirring them often, and keep them covered, when they are enough take off the threads, and put in a little flour, with a good lump of butter, and fqueeze in fome lemon, then they are ready for ufe. 124. To make a Herring Pie of White Salt Herrings. Take five or Gx fait herrings, waih them very well, lay them in a pretty quantity of water all night to take out the faltnefs, feafon them with a little black pepper, three or four middling onions peel’d and ihred very fine, lay one parr of them at the bottom of the pie, and the other at the top ; to five or fix herrings put in half a pound of butter, then lay in your herrings whole, only take off the heads ; make them into a handing pie with a thin cruft. 125. Howto Collar Pig. Take a large pig that is fat, about a month old, kill and drefs it, cutoff the head, cut it in two down the back and bone it, then cut it in three or four pieces, wafh it in a little water to take out the' blood : take a little milk and water juft warm, nut in sour pig, let it lie abo't a day and a night, Ihift it two or three times in that time to make it white, then take it out, and wipe it very well with a dry cloth, and feafon it with mace, nutmeg, pi pper ami lalt j 'ak a little Ihred parflev and ftiinkie it over two of the q, arters, fo roll th m up in a fine .foit cloth, tie it up at both ends, bind i tight w-ith a 1 ittle hi let ing or coarfe incle, and noil it in milk and water with a little fait ; n ,1 i.ke'about an hour and a ha., bailing when ii is enough bind it up tight in your ciuiu again, and hang it up whiilt( S6 > it be cold. For the pickle boil a little milk aaf water, a few bay leaves and a little fait; when it is cold take your pig out of the cloth and put it into the pickle ; you mud fhift it out of your pickle two or three times to make it white, the lad pickle make drong, and put in a little whole pepper, a pretty large handful of fait, a few bay leaves, and fo keep it for ufe. 126. To Collar Salmon. Take the fide of a middling falmon, and cut off the head, take out all the bones and the outfide, fea- fon it with mace, nutmeg, pepper and fait, roll it tight up in a cloth, boil it, and bind it up with in- cle ; it will take about an hour boiling ; when it is boiled bind it tight again, when cold take it very carefully out of the ciot’n and bind it about with fil- leting; you mult not take off the filleting but as it is eaten. To make Pickle to keep it in. Take two or three quarts of water, 3 jill of vine- gar, a little Jamaica pepper, and whole pepper, a large handful of (alt, boil them altogether, and when it is cold put in your falmon, fo keep it for ufe : If your pickle does not keep you mud renew it. You may collar pike the fame way. 127. To make an Oyster Pie, Take a pint of the large!! oyfiers you can get, clean them very well in their own liquor, if you have net liquor enough, add to them three or four fponn-. fills ot water; take the kidney of a loin of veal, cut it in thin flices, and feafon it with a little pepper and fait, lay the flices in the bottom of the di(h, (but there mull be no palle in the bottom ofthedilh) cover them with the oyfiers, drew over a little ot the fcafonnig as you did for the veal j take the marrow( 57 ) of one or two bones, lay it over your oyders and cover them with oufF-pafie ; when it is baked take off the lid, put into it a fpoonful or two of white wine, ihake it 'p alcogc hrr, and ferve it up. It is proper for a fi e-di(h either for noon or night. 128. To butter Lobster and Crab. Drefs all the meat out of the bel'y and claws of your lobder, put it into a den -pan with two or three fpoonfuls of water, a fpoonful or two ot white wine vinetiar, a little pepper, fhred mace, a lump of butter, ihake it o er the dove till it be very hot, but do not let it boil, it v. u do it wiil oil ; put it inio yoirr riifh, 'and lay round it your fmall claws : Iris as proper to put it in fcallop fhells as on a difh. 129. To road a Lobster. If your lobder be alive tie it to the fpit, road and bade it for half an h ur ; if it be boiled you mud put u in boiling water, and let it have one boil, then lie it m a dripping-pan and bade it ; when you lay i* upon the dilh, fplii the tail, and lay it on each fide, fo ferve it up with a little melted buttet in a china cup. 130. To make a Quaking Pudding. Take eight eggs and beat them very well, put to them three fpoonfuls of London flour, a little fair, three jills ol ere m, and boil it with a dick of cin- namon and a blade ot mace, when it is cold mix it to your eggs and flour, butter your cloth, and do not give it over much room in your cloth; about had an hour will boil it; you mud turn it in the boiling, or the flour wiil fettle, fo ferve it up with a little melted butter. 131. A Hunting Pudding. Take a pound ol fine flour, a pound of beef fuet fhred fine, three quarters ot a pound of currants well cleaned, a quartern of raifuis Honed and Ihred,( 58 ) fivecggs, a little lemon peel fhred fine, half a nut- meg grated, a jill of cream, a little fait, about two fpoontuls of lugar, and a little brandy, fo mix all well together, and tie it up tight in your cloth ; it will take two hours boiling; you mud have a little white wine and butter for your fauce. 132. A Calf’s Foot Pudding. Take two calf’s feet, when they are clean’d boil them as you would for eating ; take out all the bones ; when they are cold fhred them in a wood- en bowl as fmall as bread crumbs; then take the crumbs of a penny loaf, three quarters of a pound of beef fuet fhred fine, grate in half a nutmeg, take half a pound of currants well wafhed, halt a pound of raifins floned and flared, half a pound of fugar, fix^ggs and a little fait, mix them all together very well with as much cream as will wet them, fo but- ter your cloth aud tie it up tight ; -it will take two hours boiling ; you may if vou pleafe flick it with a little orange and ferve it up. 133. A Sago Pudding. Take three or four ounces of fago, and wafh it in two or three waters, fet it on to boil in a pint of water, when you think it is enough take it up, fet it to cool, and take half a candy’d lemon fhred fine, grate in half of a nutmeg, mix two ounces of Jor- dan almonds blanched, grate in three ounces of bifeuit if you have it, il not a few bread crumbs grated, a little rofe water and half a pint of cream ; then take fix eggs, leave out two of the whites, beat them with a fpoonful or two of fack, put them to your fago, with about half a pound of clarified butter, mix them all together, then fweeten it with, fine fugar, put in a little fait, and bake it in a dilk with a little puff palle about the difh edge, when( 59 ) you ferve it up you may Hick a little citron or can- dy’d orange, or any fweet meats you pleafe. 154. A Marrow Pudding. Take a penny loaf, take off the outfide, then cut one half in thin dices; take the marrow of two bones, half a pound of currants well cleaned, Ihred your marrow, and ftrinkle a little marrow and cur- rants over the dilh; lay over it your bread, in thin dices, whilft you fill the difh ; if you have not marrow enough you may add to it a little beet fuet ftired fine ; take five eggs and beat them very well, put to them three jills of milk, grate in halt a nut- meg, fweeten it to your latte, mix all together, pour it over your pudding, and fave a little marrow t© ftrinkle over the top of your pudding % when von fend it to the oven lay a puff pafte round the dilh edge, 135. A Carrot Pudding, Take three or four clear red carrots, boil and peel them, take the red part of the carrot, beat U very fine in a marble mortar, put to it the crumbs •f a penny loaf, fix eggs, halt a pound of clarified butter, two or three fpoontuls of role water, a little lemon-peel (bred, grate in a little nutmeg, mix them well together, bake it with a puff palle round your dilh, and have a little white wine, butter and fugar, for the fauce. 136. AGround P^icePudding- Take half a pound ot ground rice, half creeitin a quart ol milk, when it is cold put to it five eg«»s well beat, a jill ot cream, a little lemon peel lined line half a nutmeg grated, half a pound of butter tend halt a pound ot lugar, mix them well together Jput them into } our dilh with a httle fait, and bake tt with a puff palte round your dilh ; have a little tefe water, turner and lugai to poir over it : You( 6o ) may prick in it candy’d lemon or citron if you pleafe.* Half of the above quantity will make a pudding for a fide difh. 137. A Potatoe Pudding. Take three or four large potatoes, boil them as you would do for eating, beat them with a little role water and a glafs ot lack in a marble mortar, put £0 them half a pound, of fugar, fix eggs, half a pound of melted butter, half a pound of currants well cleaned, a little fhred lemon peel and candy’d orange, mix altogether and fei ve it up. 138. An Apple Pudding. Take half a dozen large codlins, or pippins, roafl them and take out the pulp ; take eight eggs (leave out fix of the whites) halt a pound of fine powder fugar, beat your eggs and fugar well together, and put to them the pulp ot your apples, half a pound of clarified butter, a little lemon peel fhred fine, a handful of bread-crumbs orbifcuit, four ounces of candy’d orange or citron, and bake it with a thin paffe under it. 139. An Orange Pudding. Take three large Seville oranges, the c'eareft kind you can get, grate off all the out rind; take eight eggs (leave out fix of the whites) half a pound of double refined fugar, beat and put it to your eggs, then beat them both together tor halt an hour; take three ounces of fweet almonds blanch- ed, beat them with a fpoonful or two of fair water to keep them from oiling, half a pound of butter, melt it without water, and the juice of two oranges, then put in the rafpings of y®ur oranges, and mix all together ; lay a thin pafie over your difh, and bake it, but not in too hot an oven.( 6i ) 140. An Orange Pudding another way. Take half a pound of candy’d orange, cut them in thin flices, and beat them in a marble mortar to a'pulp *, take fix eggs (leave out half of the whites) half a pound of butler, and the juice of one orange ; mix them together, and fweeten it with fine pow- der fugar, then bake it with thin pafte under it. 141. An Orange Pudding another way. Take three or four Seville oranges, the cleared (kins you can get, pare them very thin, boil the peel in a pretty quantity of water, fliift them two or three times in the boiling to take out the bitter tafte ; when it is boiled you muff beat it very fine in a marble mortar ; take ten eggs (leave out fix of the whites) three quarters of a pound of loaf fugar, beat it and put it to your eggs, beat them together for half an hour, put to them half a pound of melted butter, and the juice of two or three oranges, as they are of goodnels, mix all together, and bake it with a thin pafle over your difh. This will make cheefe-cakes as well as a pud- ding. 142. An Orange Pudding another way. Take five or fix Seville oranges, grate them and make a hole in the top, take out all the meat, and boil the ficins very tender, Ihifiingthem in the boil- ing to take off the bitter tafte ; take half a pound of long bifcuits, (lice and Icald them with a little cream, beat fix eggs and put to your bifcuits 5 take half a pound of currants, wa(h them clean, grate in half a nutmeg, pm in a little fait and a glafs of fack, beat all together, then put it into your orange .fkins ; tie them tight in a piece of fine cloth, every one feparate ; about three quarters of an hour will boil them. You mult have a little white wine, but- ter and fugar for fauce. F( 62 ) 14-3* To make an Orange Pie. Take half a dozen Seville oranges, chip them very fine as you would do for preferving, make a little hole in the top, and fcope out all the meat, as you would do an apple, you mud boil them whi 1 ft they are tender, and fhift them two or three times to take off the bitter taffe; take fix or eight apples^ accord- ingas they are in bignefs, pare and flice them, and put to them part of the pulp of your oranges, and pick out the firings and pippins, put to them half a pound of fine powder fugar, fo boil it up over a flow fire, as you would do for puffs, and fill your oranges with it ; they muff be baked in a deep delf difh with r.o pafte under them ; when you put them into your difh put under them three quarters of a pound of fine powder fugar, put in as much water as will wet your fugar, and put your oranges with the open fide uppermuft ; it will take about an hour and half baking in a flow oven ; lay over them a light puff' palle ; when you difh it up take off the lid, and turn the oranges in the pie, cut the lid in fippets, and fet them at equal diftanccs, fo ferve it up. 144. To make a Quaking Pudding another way.' Take a pint of cream, boil it with one flick of cinnamon, take out the fpice when it is boiled, then take the yolks of eight eggs, and four whites, beat them veiy well with fome fack, and mix vour eggs with the cream, a little fugar ami fait, half a penny, wheat loaf, a fpoonful of flour, a quarter ot a pound of almonds blanch’d and beat fine, heat them alto- gether, wet a thick cloth, flour it, and put it in when the pot boils ; it muff boil an hour at lead ; melted butter, fack and fugar is faucc for'it ; flick blanch’d almonds and candy’d orange peel on the top, fo ferve it up.( 63 ) 145. To make Plumb Porridge.. Take two (hanks of beef, and ten quarts of wa- ter, let it boil over a (low fire till it be tender, and when the broth is ftrong, frrain it out, wipe the pot and put in the broth again, (lice in two penny loaves thin, cutting off the top and bottom, put fome of the liquor to it, cover it up and let it (land for a quarter of an hour, fo put it into the pot again, and let it boil a quarter of an hour, then put in fous pounds of currants, and let them boil a little ; then put in two pounds of raifins, and two pounds of prunes, let them boil till they fwell ; then put in a quarter of an ouncfe of mace, a few cloves beat fine, mix it with a little water, and put it into your pot; alfo a pound of fugar, a little fait, a quart or bet- ter of claret, and the juice of two or three lemons or verjuice ; thicken it with fago inftead of bread j fo put it in earthen pots, and keep it for ufe. 146. To make a Palpatoon of Pigeons. Take nnifhrooms, pallets, oyfters and fweet breads, fry them in butter, put all thefe in a ftrong gravy, heat them over the fire, and thicken them up with an egg and a little butter ; then take fix or eight pigeons, trufs them as you would for baking, feafon them with pepper and fait, and lay on them a cruft of forcM-meat, as follows, viz. a pound of veal cut in little bits, and a pound and a half of mar- row, beat it together in a (tone mortar, after it is beat very fine, feafon it with mace, pepper and fait, put in the yolks of four eggs, and two raw eggs, mix altogether with a few bread crumbs to a pafte ; make the (ides and lid of your pie with it, then put your ragout into your dilh, and lay in your pige-v ons with butler; an hour and a half will bake it. 147* i o fry Cucumbers for Mutton Sauce. ^oumuft brown fome butter in a pan, and cut, F 2( 64 ) fix middling cucumbers, pare and dice them, but not over thin, drain them from the water, then put them into the pan, when they arc fried brown put to them a little pepper and fait, a lump of butter, a fpoonful of vinegar, alittle Hired onion, anda little gravy, not to make it too thin, fo (hake them well together with a little flour. You may lay them round your mutton, or they are proper for a fide-difh. 148. To force a Fowl. Take a good fowl, pull and draw it, then flit the fkin down the back, take the flefli from the bones, and mince it very well, mix it with a little beef fuet, Hired a jill of large oyflers, chop a fhalot, a little gratefl bread, and fome fweet herb?, mix all together, feafon it with nutmeg, pepper and fait, make it tip with yolks of eggs, put it on the bones and draw the fkin over if, few up the back, cut off the legs, and put the bones as you ’do a fowl for boiling, tie the fowl up in a cloth ; an hour will boil it. For fauce take a few oylfers, fhred them, and put them into a little gravy, with a lump of butter, a little lemon pee! fhred, and a little juice, thicken it up with a little flour, lie the fowl on the difh, and pour the fauce upon it ; you may fry a little of the forc’d-meat to lay round. Garniib your difli with lemon ; you may let it in the oven if you have convenience, only rub over it the yolk of as egg and a few breadcrumbs. 149. To make Raspberry and Strawberry Fool. Takes pint of rafpberric?, fqticezeand drain the juice, with a fpoonful of orange water, put to the juice fix ounces of fine fugar, and boil it over the fire ; then take a pint of cream and boil it, mix fhetn all well together, and heat them over the fire,( 65 ) but not to boil, if it do it will curdle; dir it till :S- be cold, put it into your bafon and keep it for ale. 150. To make a Posset with Almonds. Blanch and beat three quarters of a pound of al- monds, fo fine that they will fpread betwixt your finders like butter, put in water as you beat them to keep them from oiling ; take a pint of fack, cherry or goofeberry wine, and fweeten it to your tafte with double refined fugar, make it boiling hot ; take the almonds, put to them a little water, and boil the w,ine and almonds together ; take the yolks of four eggs, and beat them very well, pur to them three or four fpoonfuls of wine, then put it into your pan by degrees, ftirring it all the while ; when it begins to thicken take it off, and ftir it a little, put it into a china difh, and ferve it up. 151. To make Dutch Beef. Take the lean part of a buttock of beef raw, rub it well with brown fugar all over, and let it lie in a pan or tray two or three hours, turning it three or four times, then fait it with common fait, and two ounces of faltpetre ; let it lie a fortnight, turn- ing it every day, then roll it very ftraight, and pur it into a cheefe prefs a day and night, Uten take off the cloth and hang it up to dry in the chimney ; when you boil it let it be boiled very well, it will cut in (hivers like Dutch beef. You may do a leg of mutton the fame way. 152. To make Bologna Sausages. Take part of a leg of pork or veal, pick it clean from the (kin or fat, put to every pound of lean meat a pound of beef-fuet picked from the fkins, fhred the meat and fuet feparate and very fine, mix them well together, add a large handful of green fage fhred very fmall ; feafon it with pepper antiC 66 ) fait, mix it well, prefs it down hard in an earthen pot, and keep it for ufe. When you ufe them, roll them up with as much egg as will make them roll fmooth ; in rolling them up make them about the length of your fingers, and as thick as two fingers ; fry them in butter, which mud be boiled hot before you put them in j and keep them rolling about in the pan ; when they are fried through they are enough. 153. To make an Amblet of Cockles. Take four whites and two yolks of eggs, a pint of cream, a little flour, a nutmeg grated, a little fait, and a jill of cockles, mix all together, and fry it brown. This is proper for a fide-difh either for noon.or night. 254. To make a common Quaking Pudding. Take five c^gs, heat them well with a little fait, put in three fpoonfuls of fine flour, take a pint of new milk and heat them well together, then take a cloth, butter and flour it, but do not give it over much room in the cloth ; an hour will boil it, give it a turn every now and then at the firll put- ting in, orelfe the meal will fettle to the bottom ; have a little plain butter for fatice, and ferve it up. 155.. To make a boiled Tansey. Take an old penny loaf, cut off the out crtifl, flice it thin, put to it as much hot cream as will wet it, fix eggs well beaten, a little Hired lemon- peel, grate in a little nutmeg, and a little fait; green it as you did your baked tanfey, fo tie it up in a cloth and boil it ; it will take an hour and a quarter boiling -f when you difli it up flick it with candy’d orange and lay a Seville orange cut in quar- , ters round the difli; ferve it up with melted butter.( 67*) 156. A Tansev another way. Take an old penny loaf, cut off the out cruft, flice it very thin, and put to it as much hot milk as will wet it ; take fix eggs, beat them very well, grate in half a nutmeg, a little fhred lemon peel, half a pound ol clarified butter, half a pound of fn- gar, and a little fait ; mix them well together. To green your Tanfey. Take a handful or two of fpi- nage, a handful of tanfey, and a handful of forrel, clean them and beat them in a marble mortar, or grind them as you would do greenfauce, llrain them thro- a linen cloth into a bafon, 2nd put into your tanfey as much of the juice as will green it, pour over for the fauce a little white wine, but- ter and fugar; lay a rim of pafte round your difh and bake it ; when you ferve it up cut a Seville orange in quarters, and lay it round the edge of the difh. 157- To make Rice Pancakes. Take half a pound of rice, walh and pick it clean, cree it in fair water till it be a jelly, when it is cold take a pint of cream and the yolks of four eggs, beat them very well together, and put them to the’ rice, with grated nutmeg and fome fait, then put in half a pound of butter, and as much flour as will make it thick enough to fry, with as little butter as you can. 158. To make Fruit Fritters. Take a penny loaf, cut off the out cruft, flice it put to it as much hot milk as will wet it, beat five or fix eggs, put to them a quarter of a pound of cur- rants, well cleaned, and a little candy’d orange fhred fine, fo mix them well together, drop them with a fpoon into a (lew pan in clarified butter • have a little white wine, butter and fugar for your fauce, put it into a china bafon, Jay "your fritters round, grate a little fugar over them, and ferve them up.( 68 ) 159* To make White Puddings in (kins. ■ Take half a pound of rice, cree it in milk while it be foft, when it is creed put it into a cullender to drain ; take a penny loaf, cutofFtheout cruft, then cut it in thin dices, fcaltl it in a little milk, but do not make it over wet ; take fix eggs, ana beat them very well, a pound of currants well cleaned, a pound of beef fuet ihred fine, two or three fpoonfuls of rofe water, half a pound of powder fugar, a little fait, a quarter of an ounce of mace, a large nut* meg grated, and a fmair (tick of cinnamon ; beat them together, mix them very well, and put them into the (kins ; if you find it be too thick put to it a little cream ; you may boil them near halt an hour, it will make them keep the better. 160. To make Black Puddings. Take two quarts of whole oatmeal, pick it and half boil it, give it room in your cloth, (you muff do it the day before you ufe it) put it into the blood while it is warm, with a handful of fait, flir it very well, beat eight or nine eggs in about a pint of cream, and a quart of bread crumbs, a handful or two of mad in meal drefs’d through a hair-fieve, if you have it, if not put in wheat dour ; to this quantity you may put an ounce of Jamaica pepper an ounce of black pepper, a large •nutmeg, and a little more fait, fvveet.marjoram and thyme, if they be green (hred them fine, it dry rub them to pow- der, mix them well together, and it it be too thick put to it a little milk ; take four pounds of beef fuct, and four pounds of lard, ikin and cut it in thin pieces, put it into your blood bv handfuls, as you fill •••our puddings ; wlie'n they are filled and tied prick them with a pin, it will keep them from burdingin the boiling ; (you mull boil them twice), cover them clofe and it will make them black.( 69 ) 1S1. An Orange Pudding another way. Take two Seville oranges, the largeft and clear- i eft you can get, grate off the outer fkin with a clean grater ; take eight eggs (leave out two of the whites) half a pound of loaf fugar, beat it very fine, put it I to your eggs, and beat them for an hour, put to I them half a pound of clarified butter, and four ounces of almonds blanched, and beat them with a little rofe-water ; put in the juice of the oranges, I but mind you don’t put in the pippins, and mix I altogether ; bake it with a thin pafte over the bct- | tom of the difli. It muft be baked in a flow oven. 162. TomakeArPLE Fritters. Take four eggs and beat them very well, put to 1 them four fpoonfuls of fine flour, a little milk, about [1 a quarter of a pound of fugar, a little nutmeg and I fait, fo beat them very well together ; you muft not [ make it very thin, if you do it will not flick to the I apple ; take a middling apple and pare it, cut out I the core, and cut the reft in round dices about the I thicknefs of a (hilling ; (you may take out the core I after you have cut it with your thimble) have ready i a little lard in aftew-pan, or any (other deep pan ; I then take your apple every (lice Angle, and dip it j into your batter, let your lard be very hot, fo drop I them in ; you muft keep them turning while enough, p and mind that they be not over brown ; as you take I them out lay them on a pewter difh before the fire I whilft you have done ; have a little white wine, butter and fugar for the fauce ; grate over them a I little loaf fugar, and ferve them up. 163. To makeaHERB Pudding. Take a good quarftity of fpinage and parfley, a I little forrel and mild thyme, put to them k handful I of great oatmeal creed, (bred them together till theyI 7° ) be very final!, put to them a pound of currants, well waffled and cleaned, four eggs well beaten in a jill of good cream ; if you would have it fweet, put in a quarter of a pound of fugar, a little nutmeg, a little fait, and a handful of grated bread ; then meal your cloth and tie it clofc before you put it in to boil; it will take as much boiling as a piece of beef. 164. To make a Pudding for a Hare. \ Take the liver and chop it fmall with fome thyme, parfley, fuet, crumbs of bread mixt with grated nutmeg, pepper, fait, an egg, a little fat bacon and lemon peel ; you muff make the compofmon very ftiff, left it fhould diffolve, and you lofe your pudding. 165. To make a Bread Pudding. Take three jills of milk, when boiled, take a penny loaf fliced thin, cut off the out cruit, put on the boiling milk, let it (land clofe covered till it be cold, and beat it very well till all the lumps be broke ; take five egijs, beat them very well, grate in a little nutmeg, (bred fome lemon peel, and a quarter of a pound of butter or beef-fuet, with as much fugar as will fweeten it; and currants as many as you pleafe , let them be well cleaned ; fo put them into your difh, and bake or boil it. 166. Tomake Clare Pancakes. Take five or fix eggs, and beat them very well vrith a little (alt, put to them two or three fpoon- fuls of cream, a fpoonful of fine flour, mix it with a httle cream ; take your clare and wa(h it very clean, wipe it with a cloth, put your eggs into a pan, juft to* cover your pan bottom, lay the clare in leaf by leaf, wltilft you have covered yonr pan all over ; take a fpoon, and pour the batter overw . ( 71 ) every icaf till they are all covered ; when it is done lay the brown fide upwards, and ferve it up. 167. To makea Liver Pudding. Take a pound of grated bread, a pound of cur- rants, a pound and a half of marrow and fuet toge- ther cut fmall, three quarters of a pound of fugar, half an ounce of cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce of mace, a pint of grated liver, and fume fait, mix all^qgether take twelve eggs (leave out half of the whites) beat them well, put to them a pint of cream make the eggs and cream warm, then put it to the pudding, and ftir it well together, fo fill them in fkins ; put to them a few blanch’d almonds fhred fine, and a fpoonful or two of rofe water, fo keep them for ufe. 16b’. To make Oatmeal Fritters. Boil a quart of new milk, deep a pint of fine flour or oatmeal in it ten or twelve hours, then beat four eggs in a little milk, fo much as will make it like thick batter, drop them in by fpoonfuls into frelh butter, a fpoonlul of butter in a cake, and grate fugar over them ; have fack, butter and fu- gar .for fauce. 169. To make Apple Dumplings. Take half a dozen codlins, or any other good apples, pare and core them, make a little cold but- ter pafte, and roll it up about the thicknefs of your finger, fo wrap round every apple, and tie then fingle in a fine cloth, boil them in a little fait and water, and let the water bod before you put them in ; half an hour will boil them ; you mud have for lauce a little white wine and butter , grate fome fugar routul the dilh, and ferve them up. 17c. To make Herb Dumplings. Take a penny loaf, cut off the out cruft, and the reft in llices, put to it as much hot milk as will( 72 ) juft wet it, take the yolks and whites of fix eggs, beat them with two fpoonfuls of powder fugar, half a nutmeg, and a little fait, fo put it to your bread ; take half a pound of currants well cleaned, put them to your eggs, then take a handful of the mildeft herbs you can get, gather them fo equal that the tafte of one be not above the other, wafh and chop them very final!,' put as many of them in as will make a deep green (don’t put any parfley among them, nor any other ftrong herb) fo mix them all together and boil them in a cloth, make them about the bignefs of middling apples, about half an hour will boil them ; put them into your dilh, and have a little candy’d orange, white wine, butter and fu- gar for fauce, fo ferve them up. 171. To make Marrow Tarts. To a quart of cream put the yolks of 12 eggs, half a pound of fugar, fume beaten mace and cin- namon, a little fait and fome fack, fet it on the fire with half a pound of bifxets, as much marrow, a little orange-peel and lemon-peel; ftir it on the fire till it becomes thick, and when it is cold put it into a dilh with puff-palte, then bake it gently in a flow oven. 172. To make plain Fruit Dumplings. Take as much flour as you would have dumplings in quantity, put to it a fpoonful of fugar, a little fait, 1 a little nutmeg, a fpoonful of light yeaft, and half a pound of currants well wafhed and cleaned, fo knead them the (tifl'nefs you do a common dumpling, you mult have white wine, fugar and butter for fauce ; ( you may boil them cither in a cloth or without; fo l( ferve them up. 173. To make Oyster Loaves. Take half a dozen French loaves, rafp them and make a hole at the top, take out all the crumbsa ndC 73 ) fry them in butter till they are crifp ; when your oyfters are {tewed, put them into your loaves, co- ver them up before the fire to keep hot whilft you want them ; fo ferve them up. They are proper either for a fide-difh or middle- difh. You may make cockle loaves or mufhroora loaves the fame way. 174. To make a Gooseberry Podding. Take a quart of green goofeberries, pick, cod- dle, bruife and rub them through a hair fieve to take out the pulp ; take fix fpoonfuls of the pulp, fix eggs, three quarters ot a pound oi fugar, halt’ a pound of clarified butter, a little lemon-peel Ihred .fine, a handful of bread crumbs or bifcuit, a fpoon- iul of rofe water or orange flour water ; mix thefe well together, and bake it with pafte round the difh ; you may add fweetmeats if you pleafe. 175. To make an Eel Pie. Cafe and clean the eels, feafon them with a lit- tle nutmeg, pepper and fait, cut them in long pieces; you muff make your pie with hot butter paite, ler. it be oval with a thin ctufi;; lay in your eeis length, way, putting over them a little frefh butter; fo bake them. Eel pies are good, and eat very well 'Ct'ith cur- rants, but if you put in currants you muff not ufe any black pepper, but a little Jamaica pepper. 176. To make a Turbot-Head Pie. Take a middling turbot-head, pretty well cut off, walh it clean, take out the gills, fealon it pret- ty well with mace, pepper and fait, fo pm it into a deep difh with halt a pound of butter, cover it with a light puff paite, but lay none in the bottom : when it is baked take out the liquor and the butter that it was baked in, put it into a fauce-pan with a lump( 74 } of frefh butter and flour to thicken it, with an an- chovy and a glafs of white wine, fo pour it into your pie again over the fifh ; you may lay round halt a dozen yolks of eggs at equal diftances ; when •you have cut off the lid, lie it in fippets round your dilh, and ferve it up. 177. To make a caudle fora fvveet Veal Pie. Take about a jill of white wine and verjuice mixed, make it very hot, beat the yolk of an egg verv well, and then mix them together as you W'ould do mull’d ale ; you muff fweeten it very well, becaufe there is no fugar in the pie. This caudle will do for any other fort of pie that is fweet. 178. To make Sweet-meat Tarts. Make a little fiiell-pafte, roll it, and line vour tins, prick them in the infide, and fo bake them ; when you ferve them up put in any fort ot fweet- meats, what you pieafe. You may have a different fort every day, do but keep your fhclls baked by you. 179. To make Orange Tarts. Take two or three Seville-oranges and boil them, fhift them in the boiling to take out the bitter, cut them in tuo, take out the pippins, and cut them in flices ; they mull be baked in crifp pafle ; when you fill the petty pans, lay in a layer of oranges and a layer of fugar (a pound will fweeten a dozen of fmail tins, if you do not put in too much orange) bake them in a flow oven, and ice them over. 180. To make a TanseY another way. Take a pint of cream, fome bifeuits without .beds, two or ihtee fpoonfuls of fine flour, nine leaving out two of the whites, fome nutmeg,< 75 ) and orange flower-water, a little juice of tanfey and fpinage, put it into a pan till it be pretty thick, then try or bake it, if fried take care that you do not let it be over brown. Garnilh with orange and fugar, fo ferve it up. 181. A good Paste for Tarts. Take a pint of flour, and rub a quarter oi a pound of butter in it, beat two eggs with a fpoon- ful of double-refined fugar, and two or three fpoon- fuls of cream to make it into pafle ; work it as lit- tle as you can, roll it out thin ; butter your tins, duff on fome flour, then lay in your pafte, and do not fill them too full. 182. To make tranfparent Tarts. Take a pound of flour well dried, beat one egg till it be very thin, then melt almoft three quarters of a pound of baiter without fait, and let it be cold enough to mix with an egg, then put it into the flour and make your pafle, roll'it very thin, when you are fetting them in the oven wet them over with a little fair water, and grate a little fugar ; if you bake them lightly they will be very fine. 183. To make a She ll Paste. Take halt a pound of fine flour, and a quarter of a pound of butter, the yolks of two eggs and one white, two ounces of fugar finely lifted, mix ail thefe together with a little water, and roll jt very thin win!It you can fee through it ; when you lid your tarts prick them to keep them from blitter- ing ; make fare to roll them even, and when vou bake them ice them. 184. To make Paste for Tarts. Fake the yolks ol five or fix eggs, jufl as you. would have pafle in quantity ; to the yolks of fix G a( 7 & ) rggs put a pound of butter, work the butter with vour hands till it take up all the eggs, then take lome London flour and work it with your butter whilft it conies to a pafle, put in about two fpoon- • luls of loaf fugar beat and Lifted, and about half a jill ot water ; when you have wrought it well toge- ther it is fit for ufe. * fhis is a pafle that feldom runs if it be even roll- ed ; roil it thin but let your lids be thinner than your bottoms ; when you have made your tarts, prick them over with a pin to keep them from blif- teiing; when you are going to put them into the oven, wet them over with a feather dipt in fair wa- ter, and grate over them a little double refined loaf fugar, it will ice them ; but don’t let them be bak- ed in a hot oven, 185. A Short Paste for Tarts. Take a pound of wheat flour, and rub it very fmall, three quarters of a pound of butter, rub it as fmall as the flour, put to it three fpoonfuls of loat fugar beat and fifted, take the yolks of four eggs, and beat them very well ; put to them a fpoonful or two of rofe-water, and as much fair wa- ter as will work them into a pafle, then roll them thin, and ice them over as you did the other if you pleafe, and bake them in a flow oven. 186. To make a light Paste for a Vcnifon Pafly or other Pie. Take a quarter of a peck of fine flour, or as much as you think you have occafton for, and to every quartern of flour put a pound and a quarter of but- ter, break ^he third part of your butter into the flour; then take tlie whites of three or four eggs, beat them very well to a froth, and put to them as much w.ner as will knead the meal ; do not knead it over flifl', then roll in the refl of your butter, yoti - muff roll it five or fix times over at leafl, and flrin-( 77 ) fcie a little flour over your butter every time you'1 roll it up, wrap it up the crofs way, and it will be- ittfor ufe. >j 187. To make a Paste for a Standing Pie. Take a quartern of flour or more if you have oc- cafion, and to every quartern ot flour put a pound of butter and a little fait, knead it with boiling wa- ter, then work it very well, and let it lie whilft it is cold. This pafle is good enough for a goofe pie, or any other Handing pie. 188. Alight Paste for a Dish Pee. Take a quartern of flour, and break into it a pound of butter in large pieces, knead it very ftifF, handle it as lightly as you can, and roll it once or twice, then it is fit. for ufe. , V i 189.- To make Cheese-Cakes. Take a gallon of new milk, make of it a tender curd, wring the whey from it, put it into a bafon, and break three quarters of a pound of butter into the curd, then with a clean hand work the butter and curd together till all the butter be melted, and rub it in a hair fieve with the back of a fpoon till all be through ; then take fix eggs, beat them with a few Ipoontuls of rofe-water or fack, put it into your curd with half a pound of fine fugar and a nut- meg grated ; mix them all together with a little fait, lome currants and almonds; then work up your palfe ot fine flour, with cold butter and a lit- tle fugar ; roll your pafle very thin, fill your tins with the curd, and let them in an oven, when they are alinoll enough take them out, then take a quar- ter ot a pound of butter, with a little rofe-water, and part ot a halt pound of fugar, let it Hand on the coals till the butter be melted, then pour into eachC 78 ) take fome of it, fet. them in the oven again till thty be brown ; fokeep them for ufc. tgo. To make Goofer. Wafers. Take a poufid of fine flour and fix eggs, beat them very well, put to them about a jii! of mi k, mix it well with the flour, put in half a pound of clarified butter, half a pound of powder fugar, half of a nut- meg, and a little fait ; you may add to it two or three fpoonfuls of cream ; then take your goofer- irons and put them into the fire to heat, when they are hot rub them over the firfi time with a little but- rer in a cloth, put your batter into one fide of your goofer-irons, put them into the fire, and keep turn- ing the irons every now and then : (if your irons be too hot they burn foon.)' make them a day or two before you ufe them, only fet them down before the fire on a pewter di!h before you ferve them up have a little white wine and butter for your fauce, grating fome fugar over them. 191. To nuke common Curd Cheese Cak es. Take a pennyworth of curds, mix them with a little cream, beat four eg<rs, put to them fix ounces of clarified butter, a quarter of a pound of fugar, half a pound of currants well walk’d, and a little le- mon-peel fined, a little nutmeg, a fpooniul of role water or brandy, whether \ou pleale, and a little fait, mix all together, and tuke them in fmall petty pans. 192. Cjheese-Cakes without Currants. Take five quarts of new mi k, run it to a tender curd, then hang it in a cloth to drain, rub into it a pound of butter that is well wafhed in rofe-water, put to it the yolks ot feven or eight eggs, and two of the whites; leafon it with cinnamon, nutmeg andiugar.( 79 ) 193- To make a Curd Pudding. Take three quarts of new milk, put to it a little earning, as much as will break it, when it isfcum- xned break it down with your hand, and when it is drained grind it with a muflard ball in a bowl, of beat i£»in a marble mortar ; then take half a pound of butter and fix eggs, leaving out three of the whites ; beat the eggs well, and put them into the curds and butter, grate in half a nutmeg, add a lit- tle lemon peel Hired fine, and fait, fweeten it to yourtafle, beat them all together, and bake them in little petty pans with faH bottoms ; a quarter of ati hour will bake them ; you miift butter the tins very well before you put them in; when you dilh them up you mull lay them the wrong fide upwards on the dilh, and Hick them with either blanched al- monds, candied orange or citron cut in long bits, and grate a little loat-fugar over them. 194. To make a Slip Coat Cheese. Take five quarts of new milk, a quart of cream, and a quart ot water, boil vour water, then put your cream to it j when your milk is new milk warm put in your earning, take your curd into the ftrainer, break it as little as you can, and let it drain, then put it into your vat, prefs it by degrees, and lay it in grafs. 193. To make Cream Cheese. Take three quarts of new milk, one quart of cream, and a fpoonful ot earning, pul them toge- ther, let it Hand till it come to the hardnefs of a itrong jelly, then put it imo the moulu, foifting it ohen into dry cloths, lay the weight of three pounds upon it, and about two hours alter you may lay fix 01 feven poun s upon it ; tutu it often into dry Cloths nil night, then take the weight off, and let it lie in the mould without weight and cloth till morning, and when it is lodry that it doth not wet( *0 ) a cloth, keep it in greens till fit for ufe ; if you pleafe you may put a little fait into it. 196. To make Pike eat like Sturgeon. Take the thick part of a large pike and fcaje it, fet on two quarts of water to boil it in, put in a jill of vinegar, a large handful of fait, and when it boils put in your pike, but firfl bind it about with coarfe incle ; when it is boiled you mutt not take off the incJe or baifing, but let it be on all the time it is in eating; it mult be kept in the fame pickle iiwas boiied in, and if you think it be not ftrona enough, you mutt add a little more laic and vinegar, when it is cold put it upon your pike, and keep it for ufe ; before you boil the pike take out the bone. You .may .do fcate the fame way, and in my opi-. nipn it eats more like tturgeon. J97. To Collar Eels. Take the largeft eels you can get, fkin and fplit them down the belly, take out the bones, feafon them with a little mace, nutmeg, and fait; begin at the tail and roll them up very-tight, fo bind them up in a little coarfe incle, boil it in fait and water, a few bay leaves, a little whole pepper, and a little alegar or vinegar; it will take an hour boiling, ac- cording as your roll is in bignefs ; when it is boil-, ed you inlitt tie it and hang it up whilft it be cold, then put it into the liquor that it was boiled in, and keep it tor ufe. If your eels be finall you may roll two or three of them together. 198. To Pot Smelts. Take the frelhcft and the largett fmelts you can get, wipe them very well with a clean cloth, take out the guts with a tkewer (but you mutt not take out the milt Wd roan) feafon them with a little mace, nutmeg and fait, fo lay them in a flat pot ;( 8i ) if you have two fcore you mud lay over them five ounces of butter ; tie over them a paper, and fet them in a flow oven ; if it be over hot it will burn them, and make them look black ; an hour will bake them ; when they are baked you mud take them out and lav them on a difh to drain, and when they are drained you muff put them in long pots about the length of your fmelts; when you lay them in, you mull put betwixt every layer the fame feafoning as you did before, to make them keep ; when they are cold cover them over with clarified butter, fo keep them for ufe. 199. To pickle Smelts. Take the beft and'larged fmelts you can get j gut, wadi and wipe them, lay them in a flat pot, cover them with a little white wine vinegar, two or three blades of mace and a little pepper and fait j bake them in a flow oven, and keep them for ufe. 200- To dew a Pike. Take a large pike, fcale and clean it, feafon it in the belly with a little mace and fait ; fkewer it round, put it into a deep dew-pan, with a pint of fmall gravy, and a pint of claret, two or three blades of mace, fet it over a dove with a flow fire, and cover it up clofe ; when it is enough take part of the liquor, put to it two anchovies, a little lemon- peel Aired fine, and thicken the fauce with flour and butter j before you lay the pike on the difh turn it with the back upwards, take off the Ikin, and ferve it up. Garnifh your difh with lemon and pickles. 201. Sauce for a Pike. Take a little of the liquor that comes from the pike when you take it out of the oven, put to it two or three anchovies, a little lemon-peel Aired, a fpoonful or two oi white wine, or a little juice of( 32 ) lemon, which you pleafe, put to it fome butter and flour, make your fauce about the thicknefs ot cream, put it into abafon or filver boat, and fet it in your difh with your pike, you may lay round your pike any fort of fried fith, or broiled, if you have it; you may have the fame fauce for a broiled pike, only add a little good gravy, a few Ihred ca- pers, a little parfiey, and a fpoonful or two of oy- iler and cockle pickle, if you have it. £02. How to roall a Pike with the Pudding in the Belly. Take a large pike, fcale and clean it, draw it at the gills. To male a Pudding for the Pike. Take a large handful of bread crumbs, as much beei-fuet fhred fine, two eggs, a little pepper and fait, a little- grated nutmeg, a iittle parfiey, fweet marjoram and- lemon-peel (hied fine ; fo mix all together, put it into the belly of your pike, fkewer it round and lay it in an earthen difh with a lump, of butter over it, a little fait and flour, fo fet it in the oven ; an hour will roaft it. 203. To drefs a Cod’s Head. Take a cod’s head, wafh and clean it, take out the gills, cut it open, and make it to lie flat ; if you have no convenience' ot boiling it you may do it in an oven (and it will be as well or better) put it into a copper dilh or earthen one, lay upoiTit a little butter, (alt and flour, and when it is enough, lake off the fkin. Sauce for the Cod’s Head. Take a little white gravy, about a pint ofovfters or co« kies, a little Ihred lemon-peel, two or three fpoonfuls of white wine, and about half a pound, of butter ihitkened with flour, and put it into youc boat or bafon.( S3 ) Another Sauce for a Cod’s Read. Take a pint of good gravy, a lobfler or crab, which you can get, drels and put it into your gravy with a little.butter, juice of lemon, (bred lemon- peel, and a few fhrimpsif you have them : thicken it with a little flour, and put it into your bafon, fet the oyflers on one fide of the dilh and this on the other; lay round the head boiied whitings, or any fried fifh ; pour over the head a little melted but- ter. Garnifh your dilh with horfe-radifh, flices of lemon and pickles. 204. To flew Carp or Tench. Take your carp or tench and walh them, fcale the carp but not the tench, when you have clean- ed them wipe them with a cloth, and fry them in a frying-pan with a little butter to harden the Ikin ; before you put them into the flew pan, put to them a little good gravy, the quantity will be according to the largenefs of your dilh, with a jill of claret, three or four anchovies at lealf.a little fhred lemon- peel, a blade or two of mace, let all flew together, till your carp be enough, over a flow fire ; when it is enough take part of the liquor, put to it half a pound of butter, and thicken it with a little flour ; fo ferve it up. Garnifh your dilh with crifp par- fley, flices of lemon and pickles. it you have not the convenience of flewing them, you may broil them before a fire ; only make the fame fauce. 20,5. How to make Sauce for a boiled Salmon or Turbot. Take a little mild white gravy, two or three an- chovies, a fpoonful of oyfler or cockle pickle, a lit- tle Aired lemon-peel, half a pound of butter, a lit- tle parfley and fennel Hired fniall, and a little juice of lemon, but not too much, for fear it fhould take off the fwcetnefs.( 84 ) 206. To make Sauce for Haddock or Cod, either broiled or boiled. Take a little gravy, a few cockles, oyfters cr miifhrooms, put to them a little of the gravy that comes from thefifh, either broiled or boiled, it will do very well if you have no other gravy, a little cat- chup and a lump of butter ; if you have neither oy- Iters nor cockles you may put in an anchovy or two, and thicken with flour ; you may put in a few fined capers, or a little mango, if you have it. 207. To flew Eels. Take your eels, cafe, clean and fkewer them round, put them into a flew-pan with a little good gravy, a little claret to redden the gravy, a blade Or two of mace, an anchovy, and a little lemon-peel; when they are enough thicken them with a little flour and butter. Garnifh your diih with parfley. 208. To fpitch-cock Eels. Take your eels, cafe and clean them, feafon them with nutmeg, pepper and fait, fkewer them round, broil them before the fire, and balle them with a little butter; when they are almoft enough flrinkle them over with a little fhred parfley, and make your fauce of a little gravy, butter, anchovy, and a little oyfter pickle if you have it ; don’t pour the fauce over your eels, put it into a china bafon, and fet it in the middle of your difh. Garnifh with crifp parfley, and ferve them up. 209. To boil Herrings. Take your herrings, fcale and wafh them, take etit the milt and roan, fkewer them round, and tie them with a firing or elfe they will come loofe in the boiling and be fpoiled ; fet on a pretty broad flew part, with as much water as will cover them, put to it a little fait, lie in your herrings with the( 85 ) backs downwards, boil with them the milt and roans to lie round them ; they will boil in half a quarter of an hour over a flow fire, when they are. boiled take them up with an egg (lice, fo turn them over and fet them to drain. Make your fauce of a little gravy and butter, an anchovy,' and a little boiled parfley fnred •, put it into the bafon, fet it in the middle of the difh, lay the herrings round with their tails towards the bafon'and lay the mills and roans between every herring. Garnilh with crifp parfley and lemon ; fo ferve them up. 210. To fry Herrings. Scale and wafh your herrings clean, flrew over them a little flour and fait ; let your butter be very • hot before vou put your herrings into the pan, then fhake them to keep them flirring, and fry them over a brifk fire ; when they are fried cut off the heads and brnife them, put to them a jill of ale (but the ale muff not be bitter) add a little pepper and fait, a final] onion or fhalot, if you have them, and boil them all together ; when they are boiled, ftrain them and put them into your fauce-pan again, thick- en them with a little flour and butter, put it into a bafon, anil fet it in the middle of your difh ; fry the milts and roans together, and lay round your herrings. Garnilh your dilh with crifp parfley, and ferve it up. 211. To pickle Herrings. Scale and clean your herrings, take out the inilts and roans, and fkewer them round, feafon them with a little pepper and lair, put them in a deep pot, cover them with alegar, put to them a little whole Jamaica pepper, and two or three bay leaves ; bake them and keep them for ufe. H( S6 ) 212. To-flew Oysters. Take a (core or two of oyders, according as you. have occafion, put them into a fmall (lew-pan, with a few bread-crumbs, a little water, (hred mace and pepper, a lump of butter, and a fpoon- ful of vinegar (not to make it four) boil them all to- gether, but not over much, if you do it makes them hard. Garnifh with bread fippets, and ferve them up. 213. To fry Oysters. Take a fcore or two of the larged cyders you can get, and the yolks of four or five eggs, beat them very well, potto them a little nutmeg, pep- per and fait, a fpoonful of fine flour, and a little raw parfley Aired, fo dip in your oyflers, and fry them in butter a light brown. They are very proper to lie about either dew’d cyders, or any other fifh, or made didies. 214. Oysters in Scallop Shells. Take half a dozen fmall feallop (hells, lay in the bottom of every (hell a lump of butter, a few breadcrumbs, and then your oyders ; laying over them again a few more bread-crumbs, a little but- ter, and a little beat pepper, fo fet them to crifp, either in the oven or before the fire, and ferve them UP- They are proper for either a fide-difh or middle- d'.fli. 215. To keep Herrings all the year. Take frefh herrings, cut off" their heads, open and wadi them very clean, feafon them with (alt, black pepper, and Jamaica pepper, put them into a pot, cover them with white wine vinegar and water, of each an equal quantity, and fet them in a flow oven to bake ; tie the pot upciofc and they will keep a year in the pickle.( S7 ) 2i6. To make artificial Sturgeon another way. Take out the bones of a turbot or bret, lay it in fait twenty-four hours, boil it with good dore of fait ; make your pickle of white wine vinegar and three quarts of water, boil them, and put in a lit- tle vinegar in the boiling ; don’t boil it overmuch, if you do it will make it foft; when it is enough take it out till it be cold, put the fame pickle to it, and keep it for ufe. 217. To dew Mushrooms. Take mufhrooms and clean them, the buttons you may wafh, but the flaps you mud peel both in- fide and out; when you have cleaned them, pick out the little ones for pickling, and cut the red in' pieces for dewing ; wafh them and put them into a little water ; give them a boil and it will take off the faintnefs, fo drain from them all the water, then put them into a pan with a lump of butter, a little Ihred mace, pepper and fait to your tafle, (putting to them a little water) hang them over a flow fire for half an hour, when they are enough thicken them with a little flour ; ferve them up with fippets. 218. To make Almond Puffs. Take a pound of almonds blanched, and beat them with orange-fipwer water, then take a pound of fugar, and boil them almofl to a candy height, put in your almonds and flir them on the fire, keep ftirring them till they be did', then take them off the fire and dir them till they be cold ; beat them a quarter of an hour in a mortar, putting to them a pound of fugar lifted, and a little lemon-peel grat- ed, make it into a pade with the whites of three cggs> and beat it into a froth more or lefs as you think proper ; bake them in an oven almod cold,, and keep them for life-. H 2C 88 ) 219. To pot Mushrooms. Take the largeft mufhrooms, fcrape and dean them, put them into your pan with a lump of but- ter, and a little fait, let them (lew over a flow fire vrhilft they are enough, put to them a little mace and whole pepper, then dry them with a cloth, and put them down into a pot as clofe as you can, and as you lie them down ftrinklc in a little fait and mace, when they are cold cover them over with butter ; when you ufe them tofs them up with gra- vy, a few bread crumbs and butter; do not make your pot over large, but rather put them into two pots ; they will keep the better if you take the gra- vy from them when thev are flewed. They are good for fiih fattce, or any other whilil they are frefh. 220. TofryTROUT, or any other fort of Filh. Take two or three eggs, more or lefs according^ as you have filh to fry, take the filh and cut it in thin flices, lie it upon a board, rub the eggs over it with a feather, and drew on a little flour and fait, fry it in fine drippings or butter, let the drippings be very hot before you put in the fifh, but do not let it burn, if you do it will make the filh black : when the filh is in the pan, you may do the other fide with the egg, and as you fry it lay it to drain before the fire till all be tried, then it is ready for ufe. 221. To make Sauce for Salmon or Turbot. Boil your turbot or falmoti, and fet it to drain ; take the gravy that drains from the falmon or tur- bot, an anchovy or two, a little lemon-peel Ihred, a fpoonful of catchup, and a little butter, thicken it with flour the thicknefs of cream, put to it a lit- tle fljred parfley and fennel ; but d > not put in your parlley and fennel till you be jult going to lend it up, for it will take off the green.( % ) The gravy of all forts of fifli is a great addition to your fauce, if the fifh be fweete 222. To drefs Cod’s Zoons. Lie them in water all night, and then boil them, if thev be fat fhift them once in the boiling, when they are tender cut them in long pieces, drefs them up with eggs as you do fait fifh, take one or two of them and cut into fquare pieces, dip them in egg and fry them to lay round your difh. It is proper to lie about any other difh. 223. To make Solomon Gundy to eat in Lent. Take five or fix white herrings, lay them in wa- ter all night, boil them as l’oft as you would do for eating, and fhift them in the boiling to take out the faltnefs; when they are boiled take the fifh from the bone, and mind you don’t break the bones in pieces, leaving on the head and tail 5 take the white part of the herrings, a quarter of a pound of an- chovies, a large apple, a little onion fhred fine, or fhalot, and a little lemon peel, fhred them all together, and fie them over the bones on both Tides, in the ihape of a herring ; then take off the peel of a lemon very thin, and cut it in long bits, juft as it will reach over the herrings; you mult lie this peel over every herring pretty thick. Gar- nifh your difh with a few pickled oyfters, capers and mulhrocms, if you have any, fo ferve them up. 224. Solomon Gundy another way. Take the white part of a turkey, or other fowl y if you have neither, take a little white veal anil mince it pretty final! ; take a little hung beef or tongues, fcrape them very fine, a few fitted capers, and the yolks of lour or five eggs Hired fmall, take a delf difh and fie a delf plate in the difh with the wrong fide up, fo lie on your meat and other Hi- tt 3f 90 ) , gredienls, all Tingle in quarters, one to anfwer an«- ther ; fet in the middle a large lemon or mango, fo lie round your difh, anchovies in lumps, pickled oyfters or cockles, and a few pickled mufhrooms, flices of lemon and capers ; To ferve it up. This is proper for a fide difh, either at noon ®r night. 225. To make Lemon Cheese Cakes. Blanch half a pound of almonds, and beat them in a (lone mortar very fine, with a little rofe water, put in eight eggs, leaving out five of the whites ; take three quarters of a pound of fugar, and three quarters of a pound of butter melted, beat ail together, then take three lemon Ikins, boiled tender, the rind of all, beat them very well, and mix them with the reft, then put them into your pafte You may make a lemon-pudding the fame way, onlv add the juice of half a lemon :—Before you fet them in the oven, grate over them a little fine loaf fugar. 226. To make White Ginger Bread. Take a little gum dragon, lav it in rofe water all night, then take a pound of Jordan almonds blanched with a little of the gum-water, a pound of double-refined fugar beat and fitted, an ounce of cinnamon beat with a little rofe-watcr, work it into a pafte and print it, then fet it in a (love to dry.. 227. To make Red Ginger Bread. Take a quart and a jill of red wine, a jill and a half of brandy, feven or eight manlhets according to the fize the bread is, grate them (the cruft mull be dried, beat and ftfted three pounds and a halt of fugar beat and fifled, two ounces of cinnamon, and two ounces of ginger beat and fifted, a pound of al- monds blanched and brat with rofe water, out tiie bnead into the liquor by degrees, birring ;t aft the.( 91 ) time, when the bread is all well mixed take it off the fire ; yon muft put the fiigar, fpices, and al- monds into it, when it is cold print it; keep fonie of the fpice to duft the prints with. 228. To make a Cr kat Cake. Take five pounds of fine flour (let it be dried very well before the fire) and fix pounds of currants well drefs’d and rubb’d in cloths after they are waffl- ed, fet them in a fieve before the fire ; you mull; weigh your currants after they are cleaned, then take three quarters of an ounce of mace, two large nutmegs beaten and mixed amongft the flour, a pound of powder fiigar, a pound of citron, and a pound of candy’d orange (cut your citron and orange in pretty large pieces) and a pound of almonds cut in three or four pieces long way; then take iixteen eggs, leaving out half of the whites, beat your fit- gar and eggs for halt an hour with a little fall ; take three jills of cream, and three pounds and a half cf butter, melt your butter with part of the cream, for fear itfhould he too hot, put in between a jack and ajillofgocd brandy, a quart of light yeaft, and the refl of the cream, mix all your liquors together about blood warm, make a hole in the middle of your flour, and pm in the liquids, cover it half an hour, and let it (land to rile, then put in jour cur- rants and mix all together ; butter your hoop, tie a paper three fold, and put it at ihe bottom in your hoop ; juft when they are ready to fet in the oven, put the cake into your hoop at three times ; when you have laid a little pafleai the bottom, lay in part of your fweet-meats and almonds, then put in a little pafle over them again, and the reft of your Tweet meats and almonds, then lay on the reft of your pail0, and let it in a quick oven ; two bouts will bake it.( 92 ) 229. To make Iceing for this Cake. Take two pounds of double refined fugar, beat it, and filt it through a fine fieve ; put to it a fpoon- ful of fine (larch, a pennyworth of gum-arabic, beat them all well together ; take the whites of four or five eggs, beat them well, and put to them a fpoonful of rofe water, or orange-flower water, a fpoonful of the juice of lemon, beat them with the ■whites of your eggs, and put in a little to your fu- gar till you wet it, then beat them for two hours whi;ft your cake is baking ; if you make it over thin it will run ; when you lie it on your cake you mull lie it on with a knife ; if you would have the iceing very thick, you mult add a litt.e more fu- gar , wipe off the loofe currants before you put on the iceing, and put it into the oveu to hatden the iceing. \ 230. To make a Plumb Cake. Take five pounds of flour dried and cold, mix to it an ounce of mace, half an ounce of cinna- mon, a quarter of an ounce of nutmeg, half a quarter of an ounce of lemon-peel grated, and a pound of fine fugar ; take fifteen eggs, leaving out feven of the whites, beat your eggs with halt a jill of brandy or fack, a little orange-flower water, or rofe water ; then put to your eggs near a quart ot light veaft, fit it on the fire with a quart of cream,, and three pounds of butter *, let your butter melt in the cream, fi> let it fiand till new milk warm, then fkim "fl ail the butter and moll of the milk, and mix it to your eggs and yeafi ; make a hole in the mid- dle of your flour, and put in your yeaft, fl rink le st the top a little flour, then mix to it a little fait, fix pounds of currants well walh’d, clean d. di\ d, pick’d, and plump’d bv the fire, a pound oi the belt ratlins Honed, and beat them altogether whiltt they leave the bowl ; put in a pound of candy cl otange, and half a pound of citron cut in longf'93 ) pieces ; then butter the girth and fill it full ; bake it in a quick oven, againft it be enough have an iceing ready 231. To make a Caraway Cake. Take eighteen eggs, leave out half of the whites, and beat them ; take two pounds of butter, wafli the butter clear from milk and fair, put to it a little rofe-water, and work your butter very well with your hands till it take up all the eggs, then mix them in half a jack of brandy and fack ; grate into youreggs a letnon rind ; put in by degrees (a fpoon- ful at a time) two pounds of fine flour, a pound and a half of loaf fugar, that is flfted and dry ; when you have mixed them very well with your hands, take a thible and beat it very well for half an hour, till it look very white, then mix to it a few feeds, fix ounces of caraway comfits, and half a pound of citron and candy’d orange ; then beat it well, but- ter your girth, and put it in a quick oven. 232. To make Cakes to keep all the Year. . Have in readinefs a pound and four ounces of flour well dried, take a pound of butter unfalted, work it with a pound of whi e fugar till it cream, three fpoonfuls of lack, and the rind of an orange, boil it till it is not bitter, and beat it with fugar, work thefe together, then clean your hands, and grate a nutmeg into your flour, put in three eggs and two whites, mix them well, then with a pafle- pin or thible flir in your flour to the butter, make them up into little cakes, wet the top with fack and firew on fine fugar ; bake them on buttered papers, ■well floured, but not too much ; you may add a pound ot currants walhed and warmed. 233. To make Shrewsberry Cakes. Take two pounds of fine flour, put to it a pound and a quarter of butter (rub them very well) a pound( 94 ) and a quarter of fine fugar fifted, grate in a nut- meg, beat in three whites of eggs and two yolks, with a little rofe-water, and fo knead your pafte with it, let it lay an hour, then make it up into cakes, prick them and lay them on papers, wet them with a feather dipp’d in rofe-water, and grate over them a little fine fugar ; bake them in a flow oven, either on tins or paper. 234. To make a fine Cake. Take five pounds of fine flour dried, and keep it warm ; four pounds of loaf fugar pounded ; fifted and warmed ; five pounds of currants well cleaned and warmed before the fire; a pound and a half of almonds blanch’d, beat, dried, flit and kepi warm; five pounds of good butter well wafh’d and beat from the water ; then work it an hour and a half till it comes to a fine cream; put to the butter all the fu- gar, work it up, and then the flour, put in a pint of brandy, then all the whites and yolks of the eggs, mix all the currants and almonds with the reft. There muft be four pounds of eggs in weight in the fhells, the yolks and the whites beat them fepa- rate, the whites beat to a froth ; you muft not ceafe heating till they are beat to a curd, to prevent oil- ing ; to this quantity of cake put a pound and a half of orange peel and citron fhred, without plumbs, and half a pound of caraway feeds, it will require four hours baking, and the oven muft be as hot as for bread, but let it be well flaked when it has re- mained an hour in the oven, and flop it clofe ; you may ice it if you pleafe, 235. To make a Seed Cake. Take one quartern of fine flour well dried before the fire, when it is cold rub in a pound of butter ; take three quarters of a pound of caraway comfits, fix fpoonfuls of new yeaft, fix fpoonfuls of cream,( 95 ) the yolks of fix eggs and two whites, and a little fack ; mix all thefe together in a very light pafte, fet it before the fire till it rile, and fo bake it in a tin. 236. To make an ordinary Plumb Cake. Take a pound of flour well dried before the fire, a pound of currants, two pennyworth of mace and cloves, two eggs, four fpoonfuls of good new yeaft, half a pound of butter, half a pint of cream, melt the butter, warm the cream, and mix altogether in a very light pafle, butter your tin before you put it in ; an hour will bake it. ■» 237. To make an Angelica Cake. Take the flalks of angelica, boil and green them very well, put to every pound of pulp a pound of loaf-fugar beaten very well, and when you think it is beaten enough, lay them in what fafhion you pleafe on glafles, and as they candy turn them. 238. To make King Cakes. Take a pound of flour, three quarters of a pound of butter, half a pound of fugar, and half a pound of currants, well cleaned ; rub your butter well over your flour, and put in as many yolks of eggs as will lythe them, then put in your fugar, cur- rants, and fome mace, fhred in as much as w ill give thematafte, fo make them up in little round cakes, and butter the papers you lie them on. 239 To make Breakfast Cakes. Take a pound of currants well wafhed (rub them in a cloth till dry) a pound of flour dried before a fire, take three eggs, leave out one of the whites, four fpoonluls of new yeafl, and four fpoonfuls of fack or two of brandy, beat the yealt and eggs well together ; then take a jill of cream, and fomething above a quarter of a pound( 9* ) of butter, fet them on a fire, and flir them till the butter be melted, but do not let them boil, grate a large nutmeg into the flour, with currants, and fiv fpoonfuls of fugar ; mix all together, beat it wit your hand till it leave the bowl, then flour the tin you put the pafle in, and let them ftand a little to rife, then bake them an hour and a quarter. Take a pound of blanched almonds and beat them, put fome rofe-water in while beating (they mud not be beaten too fmall) mix them with the whites of five eggs, a pound of fugar finely beaten and fifted. and a handful of flour, mix all thefe very well toge- ther, lay them on wafers, and bake them in a very temperate oven (it mud not be fo hot as for man- chetj then they are fit for ufe. Take two pounds of flour, a pound of butter, a pint of cream, four eggs (leaving out two of the whites) and two fpoonfuls of yeafl, fet them to rife a little ; when they are mixed add half a pound of fugar, and half a pound of caraway comfits, make them up with fugar, and bake them in a dripping pan. / 242. To make Raspberry Cakes. Take rafpberries, bruife them, put them in a pan on a quick fire wliilfl the juice be dried up, then take the fame weight of fugar as you have of rafp- berries, and fet them on a” flow fire, let them boil whilft they are pretty ftiff; make them into cakes, and dry them near the fire, or in the fun. fire, nine eggs, a pound of loaf-fugar beaten and 240. To make Mac aroons. 241. To make Wiggs. 243. To make Queen Cakes. Take a pound of fine flour dry’d well before the( 97 3 fifted, put one half to your eggs and the other l* your butter ; take a pound of butter and melt it ■without water, put it into a ftone bowl, when it is almoft cold put in your fugar, and a fpoonful or two of rofe water ; beat it very quick for half an hour, till it be as white as cream ; beat the eggs and fugar as long and very quick, whilfl they be white ; when they are well beat mix them all to- gether ; then take half a pound of currants cleaned well ; and a little fhred mace, fo you may fill one part of your tins before you put in yonr currants ; you may put a quarter of a pound of ,almonds Aired (if you pleafel into them that are without the cur- rants ; you may ice them if you pleafe, but do not let the iceing be thicker than you may lie on with a little brulh. 244. To make a Biscuit Cake. Take a pound of fine flour dry’d before the fire, a pound of loaf fugar beaten and fifted, beat nine eggs and a fpoonful or two of rofe water with the fugar for two hours, then put them to your flour and nix them well together } put in an ounce of caraway feeds, then put ii into your tin and bake it an hour and a halt in a pretty quick oven. 245. To make Cracknels. Take halt a pound of fine flour, half a pound of fugar, two ounces of butter, two eggs, and a few caraway feeds ; (you mult beat and lift the fugar) then put it to.your flour and work it to paite ; roll them as thin as vou ca , and cut them out with queen-cake tins, lie ihem on papers and bake them in a fl >w oven. 1 hey are proper to ea> with chocolate. I( 95 ) 24-6. To make Portugal Cakes. Take a pound of flour, a pound of butter, a pound of fugar, a pound of currants well cleaned, and a nutmeg grated ; take half of the flour and mix it with fugar and nutmeg, melt the butter and put into it the yolks of eight eggs very well beat, and only four of the whites, and as the froth rifes put it into the flour, and do fo till all is in ; then beat it together, (fill ftrewing in fome of the other half of the flour, and beat it till all the flour be in, then butter the pans and fill them, but do not b^ke them too much ; you may ice them if you pleafe, or you may flrew caraway comfits of all forts on them when they go into the oven. The currants muff be plump’d in warm water, and dried before the fire, then put them into your cakes. 247. To make Plumb Cakes another way. Take two pounds of butter, beat it with a little jofe-water and orange flour-water till it be like cream, two prunds of flour dried before the fire, a quarter of an ounce of mace, a nutmeg, halt a pound of loaf-fugar beat and lifted, fifteen eggs (beat the whites by themfelves and yoiks with your fugar) a jack of brandy and as much fack, two pounds of currants very well cleaned, and half a pound of al- monds blanched and cut in two or three pieces length way, fo mix all together, and put it into your hoop or tin ; you may put in half a pound of candy’d orange and citron it you pleafe ; about an hour will bake it in a quick oven j if you have a mind to have it iced, a pound of fugar will ice it. 248. To make a Ginger Br t ad Cake. Take two pounds of treacle, two pounds and a quarter of flour, an ounce of beat ginger, three quarters of a pound of fugar, two ounces of corian-( 99 ). der feeds, two eggs, a pennyworth of new ale with the yeaft on it, a glafs of brandy, and two ounces of lemon-peel, mix all thefe together in a howl, and fet it to rife for half an hour, then put it into a tin to bake, and wet it with a little treacle and water ; if you have a quick oven an hour and a half will bake it. 249. To make Chocolate Cream. Take four ounces of chocolate, more or lefs, ac- cording as you would have your difh in bignefs, grate it and boil it in a pint of cream, then mill it very well with a chocolate hick ; take the yolks of two eggs and beat them very well, leaving out the drains, put to them three or four fpoonfuls of cream, mix them all together, fet it on the fire and keep flirring it till it thicken, but do not let it boil; you mud fweeten it to your tafte, and keep flirring it till it be cold, fo put it into your glalfes or china difhes, which you pleafe. 250. To make White Lemon Cream. Take ajill of fpring water and a pound of fine fugar, fet it over the fire till the fuear and water be didblved, then put the juice of lour good lemons to your fugar and water, the whites of four eggs well beat, fet it on the fire again, and keep it ttirring one way fill it juft fimmers and does not boil, dram it thro’ a fine cloth, then put it on the fire again, adding to it a fpoonful of orange flower water, Itir it till it thickens on a (low fire, then drain it into ba- fonsor glalfes for your the, do not let it boil, if you do it will curdle. 251. To make Cream Curds. Take a gallon of w'ater, put to it a quart of new milk, and a little (alt, a pint of fweet cream and l 2( ICO ) right eggs, leaving out half of the whites and drains* beat them very well, put to them a pint of four cream, mix them very well together, and when your pan is juft at boiling (but ii mud not boii) put in the four cream and your eggs, itir it about to keep it from fettling to the bottom ; let it (land till it begins to rife tip, then have a little fair water, and as they rife ke<p putting it in whilli they be well rifen, then take them off tire re, and ier them Hand a litile to fadden ; have ready a fteve with a clean cloth over it, and take up the curds with a ladle or egg-flicer, whether you have; you muff; always make them the night before you ufe them ; this quantity will make a la'rge diih if your cream be good ; if you think veur curds be too thick, mix 10 them two or three (poonfuls of good cream, lie them upon a china dilh in lumps ; fo ferve them up. 252. To make Apple Cream. Take half a dozen of large apples (codlings or any other apples that will be foit) coddle them ; when they are cold take out the pulp ; then take the whites of four or five e>>gs (leaving out the Itrain?) three quarters of a pound of double refined fugar beat and lifted, a fpoonful or two of rofe water and grate in a little lemon-peel, fo beat ail toge- ther for an hour, until it be white, then lay it on a china dilh, fo ferve it up 25}. To fry Cream to eat hot. Take a pint of cieam ami boil it, three fpoonfuls of fine flour, mixed uiih a little milk, pm in three eggs, and beat them verv well with the flour, a lit- tle fait, a fpoonful or two of fine powder fugar, mix them very well ; then pot yotu cream to them on the fire and bml it ; then beat two eggs more very well, and when you take vour pan off the fire (tir them in, and pour them into a large pewterC 101 ) di(h about half an inch thick ; when it is quite cold cut it out in fquare b ts and fry it in butter, a light brown ; as you fry them fetthem before the fire to keep hot and crifp, fo difh them up with a little white wine, butter and fugar for your fauce, in a china cup, fet it in the midft, and grate over Come loaf-fugar. 254. To make Rice or Almond Cream. Take two quarts of cream, boil it with what feafoning you pleafe, then take it from the fire and fweeten it, pick out the feafoning and divide it into two parts, take a quarter of a pound of blanched almonds well beat with orange-flour water, fet that on the fire, and put to it the yolks of four eggs well beat and drained, keep ir itirring all the time it is on the fire, when it rtfes to boil take it off, Itir it a little, then put it into your bafon, the other half fet on the fire, and thicken it witn flour of rice ; when you take it off put to it the juice of a lemon, orange flour-water or fack, and ltir it till it be cold, then fetve it up. 2^5. To make Calf’s Foot Jelly. Take four call's feet and drefs them, boil them in fix quarts of water over a flow fire, whillt all the bones will come out, and hah the water be boiled away, drain it into a (tone bowl, then put to tnein t*o or three quarts more water, and let it boil away to one : it you want a arge quantity >t flum- mery or jelly at one ti ue, take two call’s teet m >re, it will make your dock the stronger ; you mud make your itock the day belore you tile it, and be- fore you put your (tuck into the pan take off rite tat, and put it into yout pan to melt, take tile whites of eight >r ten eggs, jolt as you have jelly in qMan-( 102 ) to them five or fix lemons, according as they are of goodnefs, a 1 i’tie white wine or rhenifh, mix them well together (but let not votir (lock be too hot when you put them in) and fweeten it to your tafie ; keep it Birring all the time whilfi it boil } take vour bag and dip it in hot water, and wring it well out, then put in your jel y, and keep it (hifting •whilfi "u comes clear ; throw a lemon-peel or two into your bag as the jelly is coming off, and put in fome bits of peel into yourglaffes. You may make hartfhorn jdly the fame way. 256. To make Orange Cream. Take two feville oranges, and perl them very thin, put the peel into a pint of fair water, and let it lie for an hour or two ; take four eggs, and beat them very well, put to them the juice of three or four oranges, according as they are in goodnefs, and fweeten them with double-refin’d fugar to your tafte mix the water and fugar together, and Brain them thro’a fine cloth into your tankard, and let it over the fire as you did the lemon cream, and put it into your glaffes for ule. 257. To make Yellow Lemon Cream. Take two or three lemons, according as they are in bignefs, take off tin peel as thin as you can irom the whin , pi t it into a pint of clear water, and let it lay three or four hour*-, take the yo’ksot itiree or four eggs beat them ver\ well, about ;ght mh:CcS of double refin’d (ugar, put it it to y or water to diff’lve, and a fpoonftil or two of rofe water cr orange fh wer water, which you can get, mix all together with the juice d two of vour lemons, and jl your lemons ptove not good, put in the ji ice of three, fo llrain them through a fine cloth into af 103 ) fitver tankard, and fet it over a ftnve or chafing difh, (lirrinu it a t the ti ne, and when it begins to be as thick as cream take it off, but don’t let it boil, if volt do it will curdle, ftir it whilff it be cold, and put it into glair s for life- 258. To make White Lemon Crea-m another way Take a pint of fpring water, and the whites of fix ecgs, beat them very well to a froth, put them to your water, adding to it half a pound o! double* refin'd fugar, a fpoonful of orange flower-water, and the juice of three lemons, fo mix all together,, an l (train them through a fine cloth into your filver tankard, fet it ovei a flow fire in a chafing dilli, and keep (iirring it all the time ; as von fee it thick- ens take it off, it will looner curdle than be yellow, (fir it until it be cold, and put it in final! jelly glalfcs for ufe 259. Tom ke Sago Custards. Take two ounces of fago, walh it in a little wa- ter, let it on to cree in a pint of milk, and let it cree till it be tender, when it is cold put to i three jil's of cteain, boil it all together with a blade or tw i i f mace, or a (tick of cinnamon ; take fix eggs, leave.out the drains beat them very wed, mix a lit- tle of your cream am nglt your tugs, hen 111.x all togetaer, keep during it as you put it in, fo let it over a flow hie, and (fir it about v\ hi 111 it be the thickncfsof good cream , you mult not let it boil ; when you take t If die tiie pm in a ra cup fi 11 of brandy, and Iweetcn it t your talte. the.i put it into pots or glafles for ule Von may have hall the quantity 11 you pieale. 260 To make Almond Custards. Boil two quarts of Tweet cicam with a flick of cinnamon , t ke eight et<gs, leaving out all the whites but two, beat litem very weli ; take fix{ ) ounces of Jordan almonds, blanch and beat them with a little rofe-water, fo give them a boil in your cream ; pot in half a p und of powder fogar, and a little of your cream amongfl your eggs, mix alto- gether, and fet them over a flow fire, flir it all the time until it be as thick as cream, but don’t let it boil ; when you take it off put in a little brandy to your tafie fo put it into your cup1: for ufe. You may make rice-cuflard the fame way. 261. To make a Sack Posset. Takea quart of cream, boil it with two or three blades of mace, and grate in a long bifeuit ; take eight eggs, leave out half the whites, beat them very well, and a pint of goofeberry wine, make it hot, fo mix it well with your eggs, fet it over a flow fire, and flir it about till it be as thick as cuf- tard \ fet a difh tha* is deep over a ftove, put in your fack and eggs, when vour cream is boiling hot, put it to your fack by degrees, and flir it all the time it Aa ds over your (love, until it be thorough- ly hot, but don’t let it boil ; you muft make it about half an hour before you want it ; let it upon a hoi hearth, and then it w ill be as thick ascuflardj make a little fioth of cream, to lav over the polfet ; when you difh it up fw'eeten it to your talfe ; you may make it without bifeuit if you pleafe, and don’t Jay on your froth till you ferve it up 262 To make a Lemon Posset. T ke a pint ot good thick cream, grate into it theouteimofl fkin of two lem uis, and fqueeze the juice into a jaek ot wihite wine, and fweeten it to youriaite ; take me whites of two eggs without the drains, iieat them to a froth, fo whifk them all to- gether in a (lone bow l for half an hour, then put tt.cm into gLll’es lor ufe.f 105 ) 263. To make Whipt Sillabubs. Take two porringers of cream and one of white wine, grate in the fkin of a lemon, take ihe whiles of three etrgs, f Iveeten it to your tafte, then whip if with a whifle, take off the froth as it riles, and put it into your fil abub gluffes or pots, whether you have, then they are fit for ufe. 264. To moke Almond Butter. Tak - a quart of cream, and half a pound of al- monos, b at them with the cream, then drain it, and boil it with twelve yolks of eggs and ’W > whites, till it curdle, hang it tip in a cloth till morning and then fweeten it ; vo i may rub it through a fieve with ths back of a fpoon, or drain it through a coarfe cloth. 265. To make Black Caps. Take a dozen of middling pippins and cut them in two, take out -the cores and black end-, lay them with the fiat fide downwards, fet them in the oven, and when they are about half roafied take them out, wet them over with a lil le rofe water, and grate over them loaf fugar, preny thick, fet them into the oven again, and let them ftand til thev are black ; when you ferve them up, put them cither into cream orculfard, .with the black lide upwards, and fet them at equal diltances. 266. To make Sauce for Tame Ducks. T ’ke the necks and gizzards of your ducks, a ferag of mutton if you have it, and make a little fweetgravy, pm to it a few bread crumbs, a fmall onion, and a 111 lie whole pepper, boil i|um for half a quarter of an hour, pm to them a lump of butter, and if it is not thick tmough a little flour, fo iall it to your tallc. 12&7- To make Sauce for a Green Goofe. Take a little good gravy, a little butter, and a few fcalded goofeberries, mix all together, and put it on the dilh v, ith yout goofe. 268. To make another Sauce for a Green Goofe. Take the juice of forrel, a little butter, and a few fcalded go feberries mix them together, and fweeten it to your tafte ; you muft not let it boil after you put in the forrel, if you do it will take oft'the green. You muft pur this fauce into a bafon. 269. To m. k. Almond Flummery. T ike a pint ot (tiff jelly made of caif’s feet, put to it a ji!l or bet111 of good cream, and four ounces of .dmori 's, b .inch and beat them fine with a little rofe-water, then put them 10 your cream and jelly, let them boil together or half a quarter of an hour, and fweeten it to your tafte , drain it through a fine cloth, and keep it birring til1 i> be quite culd, put i' in cups and let it ftand all night, loofen it in warm water and turn i' out in o y >ur difli lo ferve it up, and prick it with blanch’d almonds. 270. To make Calf’s Foot Flummery. Take two calf's feet, when they are drefs’d, put two quarts of water to them, boil them over a flow fire till halfor better beconfumed ; when yourftock is cold, if it be too IMF, you may put to it as much cream as jelly, boil them together with a blade or two of mace, fweeten it to your tafte with loaf fu- gar, (train it through a fine cloth, (lir it whillt it be cold, and turn it out but fir A loofen it in warm w-ater, and put it imoyourdilh as you did the flummery.( *0 7 ) i. To'flew Spin age with Poached Eggs,, Take two orthree handfuls of young fpinage,picfc it from the ftalks, wafh and dram it very clean, put it into a pan with a lump of butter, and a little fait, keep ftirring it al! the time whilli it be enough, then take it out and fqueeze out the water, chop it and ftir tn a little more butter, lay it in your difh in quarters, and betwixt every quarter a poached egg and lay one in the middle ; fry fome fippets of white bread and prick them in your fpmage, fo ferve them up. This is proper for a fide difh either for noon or night. 272. To make Ratafia Drops. Take half a pound of the bell Jordan almonds, and four ounces of bitter almonds, blanch and fet them before the fire to dry, beat them in a marble mortar with a little white of an egg, then put to them half a pound of powder fugar, and beat them all together to a pretty If iff palte ; you may beat your white of egg very well before you put it in, fo take it out, roil it with your hand upon a board witn a little fugar, then cut them m pieces, and lay them on (fleets of tin or paper, at equal diilances, that they don’t touch one another, and fet them in a flow oven to bake. 273 Tofry Artichoke Bottoms. Take artichoke bottoms when they are at the full growth, and boil them as you wouid do for eating, pull offthe leaves and take out the choke, cut off the italics as clofe as you can irotn the bottom, ta ke two or three eggs, beat them very well, fo dip your artichokes in them and llrcw over them a little pepper and fait; try them in butter, fome whole and fome in halves; lerve them up with a hule butter{ io8 ) in a china cup, fet it in the middle of your diili lay your artichokes round, and ferve them up. They are proper for a fide-difh either noon or night. 274. To fricafiee Artichokes. Take artichokes, and order them the fame way as you did for trying, have readv in a ftew-pan a few morels and truffles, hewed in brown gravy, fo put in your artichokes, and give them a {hake all to- gether in your fiew-pan and ferve them up hot. With ftppets round them. 275. To dry Artichoke Bottoms. Take the larged artichokes you can get, when they are at their full growth, boil them as you would do for eating, pull off the leaves and take out the choke ; cut off the Italic as clofe as you can, lay them on a tin dripping pan, or an earthen difh, fet them in a flow oven, for if your oven be too hot it will brown them, you may dry hem before the file if you have conveniency ; when they ate dry put them in paper bags, and keep diem tor ufe. 276. 1 o ttew Apr Li s. Take a pound of dou le refin’d fugar, with a pint of wa.er, boil and ikitn it, and pui mt i' a pound of tlu- latgeft and cl:- reft pippins, pared nr cut in ha ves ; it hole, lei rncm he w ole ; core ihcitii and boil them wirli . cot,urn al froth, nil tuey be as lender and clear as v on > oul-i ave them, nut •in ilie juice of iwo I-mons (bin fiilt take our the appies) a little pee. cut Ime tim-<» s, t- tl down your fyi up as thi k as \ o > uld hat e it, then pour it over your a pi > when von dilh then , fftek then, well tit le bio. -t cant’d o< .nge, and Ionic wi M aim rids out Jn loim IV. fei e them up. You mult flew them tiie day Defoie you ule mein.( io9 ) «77* ftcw Apples another way. Tike kentifh pippins or John apples, pare ami dice them into fair water, fet them on a clear fire* and when they are boiled to mafh let the liquor rim through a hair fteve; boil as many apples thus as will make the quantity of liquor you Would have t to a pint of this liquor you mud have a pound of double refin’d loaf fugar in great lumps, wet the lumps of fugar with the pippin liquor, and fet it over a gentle fire, let it boil, and fkim it well ; whilfl you are making the jelly, you muff have your whole pippins boiling at the fame time ; [they mud be the faired and bed pippins you can get) fcope out the cores, and pare them neatly, put them into fair water as you do them ; you mult Itkewife make a fvrup ready to put them into, the quamity as you think will boil them in clear ; make the fyrup with double refin’d fugar and water. Tie up your whole pippins in a piece of fine cloth or mutlin feverally, when your fugar and water boils put them in, let them boil very fad, fq fad that the fyrup always boils over them ; fometimes take them off and then fet them on again, let them boil till they be clear and tender ; then take off the mufiin they were tied up in, and put them into glaffes that will hold but one in a glafs j then fee if your jelly of John apples be boiled to jelly enough, if it be, Iqueeze in the juice of two lemons, and let it have a boil ; then dram it through a jelly bag into the glaffes your pippins are in ; you mud he hire that your pippins be well drained from the fyrup they were boiled in ; before you put them into the glaffes, you may, if you pleafe, boil little pieces of lemon- peel in water till they be tender, and then boil them in the fyrup your pippins were boiled in ; then take them out and lay them upon the pippins before the jelly is put in, and when they are cold paper them up. li( > 278. To make Plumb Gruel. tnr Take half a pound ©f pearl barley, fet it on cree ; put to it three quarts of water ; when it is. boiled a while, fhift it into another frefh water, and put to it three or four blades of mace, a little lemon-peel cut in long pieces, fo let it boil vvhilffc the barley be very foft ; if it be too thic k you may add a little more water ; take half a pound of cur- rants, wafh them well and plump them, and put to them your barley, half a pound of raifins and {tone them ; let them boil in the gruel whillt they are plump, when they are enough put to them a little white wine, a little juice of lemon, grate in half a nutmeg, and fweeteu it to your take, to ferve them up. 279. To make Rice Gruel. Boil half a pound of rice in two quarts of foft water, as foft as you would have it ter rice tniik, with fome dices ot lemon-peel, and a {lick of cin- namon ; add to it a little white wine and juice ot lemon to jour take, put in a little candy’d orange iliced thin, and fweeten it with fine powder lugar ; don’t let it boil alter you put in your wine and le- mon, put it in a china ddh, with five or fix dices ©1 lemon, fo ferve it up. 280. To make Scotch Custard, to eat hot for Supper. Boil a quart of cream with a dick of cinnamon, and blade of mace; take fix eggs, both yolks and whites (leave out the drains) and beat them very well, giate a long bifeuit into your cream, give it 1 a boil before you put in your tggs, mix a little of your cream amongll j our eggs beioie \ou put ’em in fo fet it over a flow fire; during it about whilfl it be thick, but don’t let it boil ; take halt a pound of currants, waih them very well and plump them, then put them to y our ctldaid ; you mult let yourC I1J ) cuflard be as thick as will bear the currants, that they don’t fink to the bottom ; when you are going to difh it up, put in a large glafs of fack, Itir it very well, and ferve it up in a china bafon. 281. To make a difh of Mull’d Milk. Boil a quart of new milk with a dick of cinna- mon. then put to it a pint of cream, and let them have one boil together, take jeijht eggs ^lcave out half of the whites and all 'he drams) beat them very ■well, put to them a jill of milk, mix all together, and let itov.-ra flow fire, ftir it whtlfl it begins to thicken like cuftard, Iweeten it to your t.-.lle, and grate in half a nu.meg ; then put it into your difh , with a toad of whue 1 read. This is proper fur a Tapper. 282. To make a Leatch. 1 Take two ounces of ifinglafs and break it into bits, put it into hot water, then put naif a pint of new milk into the pan with the ifinglafs, fet it on the fire to boil, and put into ir three or four dicks of good cinnamon, two blades of mace, a nutmeg quartered, and two or three cloves, boil it till the ifinglafs be difl'olved, run it through a hair-fieve into a large pan, then put to it a quart of cream fweeieued to your tade with loaf-lugar, and boil them a while together ; take a quarter of a pound of blanch’d a!mo -ds beaten in rofe-water, and drain out all the juice of them into the cream on the fire and warm it, then take it off and dir it well toge- ther ; when it has cooled a little take a broad flial- low difh and put it into it through a hair-iieve, when it is cold cut it in long pieces, and lay it acrofs whilfl you have a pretty large difh j lo ferve it up. Ka A( “2 ) Sometimes a lefs quantity of ifinglafs will do, ac- cording to the goodnefs ; Let it he the whited and cleared you can get. You mud make it the day before you want it for ufe. 283. To make Scotch Oysters. Take two pounds of the thick part of a leg of veal, cut it in'little bits clear from the {kins, and put it in a marble mortar, then fhred a pound of beef fuet and put to it, and beat them well together till they be as fine as pade ; put to it a handful of bread crumbs and two or three eggs, feafon it with mace, nutmeg, pepper and fair, and work it well together ; take one part of your forc’d-meat and wrap it in the kell, about the bignefs of a pigeon, the red make into little fiat cakes and fry them ; the rolls you may either broil in a dripping-pan, or fet them in an oven ; three are enough in a difh, let them in the middle of the dilh, and lay tlie cakes round, then take lotne drong gravy, {fired in a tew capers, & two or three mufiirooms or oydcrs if you have any, fo thicken it up with a lump of butter, and ferve it up hot. Garnifh your difh with pickles. 284. To boil Broccoli. Take broccoli when it is feeded, or at anv other time ; take off all the low leaves of your ltalks and tie them up in bunches as you do aiparagus, cut them the fame length you peel your ilalks; cut them in little pieces and boil them in fait and water by thenilelves ; you mud let your water boil before you put them in ; boil the heads in fait and water, and let the water boil before you put in the broc- coli ; put in a little butter ; it takes very little boil- ing, and if it boil too quick it will take off all the heads ; you mud drain jour broccoli through a fieve as you do afparagus ; iie the (talks in the mid- dle, and the bunches round it, as you would do af- paragus.f ”3 ) This is proper either for a fide difii or a middle dilh. 285. To boil Savoy Sprouts. If your favoys be cabbag’d, drefs off the out leaves and cut them in quarters ; take off a little of the hard ends, and boil them in a large quantity of water with a little fait ; when boiled drain them, lie them round your meat, and pour over them a little butter. Any thing will boil greener in a large quantity of water than otherwife. 286. To boil Cabbage Sprouts. Take your fprouts, cut off the outfide leaves and the hard ends, Hired and boil them as you do other greens, not iorgetting a little butter. 287. To fry Parsneps to look like Trout. Take a middling fort of parfneps, not over thick, boil them as foft as you would do for eating, peel and cut them in two, the long way ; you mult only fry the Imall ends, not the thick ones; beat three or tour eggs, put to them a fpoonful of flour, dip in your parfnips, and try them in butter a light: brown, have tor vour fauce a little vinegar and butter ; try fome llices to lie round about the dilh, and foferve them up. 288. To make Tan sey another way. Take an old penny loat, and cut off the cruft, flice 11 thin, put to it as much hot cream as will wet it, then put to it fix eggs well beaten, a little lhrcd lemon-peel, a little nutmeg and fait, and fweeten it to your take; green it as you did your tanley ; io tie it up in a cloth and boil it; fit will take an hour and a quarter boiling) when you d Ih it up Hick it with candy’d orange, and lie a Seville orange cut in quarters round your dilh ; lerve it up with a little plain butter. k a{ “4 ) 289. To make Gooseberry Cream. Take a quart ot goofeberries, pick, coddle, and bruife them very well in a marble mortar or wooden bowl, and rub them with the back of a fpoon through a hair fieve, till you take out all the pulp front the feeds ; take a pint of thick cream, mix it well among your pulp, grate in fome lemon-peel, and fweeten it to your talle ; ferve it up either in a china difli or an earthen one. 290. To fry Parsneps another way. Boil your parfneps, cut them in pieces about the length ot your finger, dip them in egg and a lit'le flour, and fry them a light brown ; when they are fried difli them up, and grate over them a little fu- gar : You muft have for the fauce a little white wine, butter and fugar, in a bafon, and fet in the middle of your diih. 291, To make Apricot Pudding. Take ten apricots, pare, ftone and cut them in two, put them into a pan with a quarter of a pound of loaf fugar, boil them pretty quick till they look clear, fo let them ftand till they are cold ; then take fix eggs (leave out half of the whites) beat them very well, add to them a pint of cream, mix the cream and eggs well together with a fpoonlul of rofe-water, then put in \our apricots, and beat them very well together, with lour ounces of cla- rified butter, then put it into your dilh with a thin, pafle under it ; half an hour will bake it. 292. To make \?R ICOT C U ST AR D. Take a pint of cream, boil it with a flick of cin- namon and fix eggs, leave out four of ti e whites, when your cream is a little cold mix your eggs and. cream together, witli a quarter of a pound of fine fugar, let it over a How lire, llir it all one wayC "5 ) whilft it begin to be thick ; then take it off and ftir it whilfl it fie a little cold, and pour it into your difh ; take fix apricots, as you did for your pud- ding, rather a little higher ; when they are cold lie them upon vour cuftard at equal fiftances; if it be at the time when you have no ripe apricots, you may lie preferved apricots. 293. To make Jumballs another way. Take a pound of meal and dry it, a pound of fu- gar fi iely beat, and mix thefe together ; then take the volks of free or fix eges, half a jill of thick cream, or as mu h as will make it up to a paite, and Tome cori nder feeds, lav them on tins and prick them ; bake them in a quick oven ; before you fet them in the oven wet them with a iittle rofe-water and double-refined fugar to ice them, 294. To make Pbach or Apricot Ch ips. Take a pound of chips to a pound of fugar, let not your apricots he too lipe, pare hem and cut them into large chip ; take three quarters of a. pound of fine fugar, drew moif of it upon the chips, and let them hand till the fu. ar he d'flolv’d, fet them on the fire and boil them oil they are ten- der and clear, brewing the remainder of the fimar on as they boil, fkim them clear, and lay them in glalfes or pots bugle, with fome fyrup, cover them with doubl--refin’d fugar, fet them in ,1 Hove and when they are enfp on one fide turn the other on glades and parch them, then fet them into a flove again : when they are pretty dry pour them oil. tau lieves till they are dry enough to put up.( ) *95- To make Sago Gruel. Take four ounces of fago and wafh it, fet it over a flow fire to cree in two quarts of fpring water, let it boil whilft it be thickiih and foft, put in a blade or two of mace, and a flick of cinnamon, let it boil in a while, and then put in a little more wa- ter ; take it off, put to it a pint of claret, and a lit- tle candy’d orange; then put in the juice of a le- mon, and fweeten it to your taite ; fo ferve it up. 296. To make Spinage toafts. Take a handful or two ol young fpinage and wafh jt, drain it from the water, put it into a pan with a lump of butter, and a little fait, let it flew whillt it be tender, only turn it in the boiling, then take it up and fqueeze out the water, put in another hi' n of butter and chop it (mall, put to it a hand- ful of currants plump’d, and a little nutmeg; have three toafts cut fiom a penny loaf well buttered, then he on your fpinage. This is proper ior a fide difh either at noon or night. 297. To roaft a Beast Kidney. Take a bead kidney with a little tat on, and fluff it all round, feafon it with a little pcpoer and fait, wrap it in a kell, and put it upon the (pit with a lit- tle water 111 the dripping-pan ; what drops from vour kidney thicken it with a lump of butter and ilour for your fauce. To make your Stuffing. Take a handful of fweet-herbs ; a few bread crumbs, a little beef-fuet lined fine, and two e^gs (leave out the whites) mix all together with a little nutmeg, pepper and fait ; fluff your kidnev with one part ol the fluffing, and try the other part ui little cakes, fo ferve it up.( ”7 ) 298. To dew Cucumbers. Take middling cucumbers and cut them in flices, but not too thin, drew over them a little fait to bring out the water, put them into a dew-pan or fauce-pan, with a little gravy, fome whole pepper, a lump of butter, and a fpoonful or two of vinegar to your tade; let them boil all together ; thicken them with flour, and ferve them up with ftppets. 299. To make an Oatmeal Pudding. Take three or four large fpoonfuls of oatmeal done thro’ a hair-fieve, and a pint of milk, put it into a pan and let it boil a little whild it be thick, add to it half a pound of butter, a fpoonful of rofe water, a little lemon-peel fhred, a little nutmeg or beaten cinnamon, and a little fait ; take fix eggs (leave out two of the whites) and put to them a quar- ter of a pound of fugar or better, beat (hem very well, fo mix them all together, put it into vour ddh with a pade round your didt edge ; have a little rofe-water, butter and fugar for fauce. 3C0. To make a Calf’s Head Pie another way. Half Boil your calf’s-head, when it is cold cut it in flices, rather thicker than you would ;o tor halhing, feafon it with a little mace, nutmeg, pep- per and fait, then lie part of your meat in the i>ot- 10m of your pie, a few capers, pickled oyders, anti mufhrooms ; a layer of one and a layer of another ; then put in half a pound of butter and a little gravy; when your pie comes from the oven, have ready the yolks of fix or eight eggs boiled hard, and lay them round your pie ; put in a 1 iitie melted butter, and a fpoonful or two of white wine, and give them a fhake together before you lie in your eggs ;( 118 ) your pie mufl be a Handing-pie baked upon a difh, with a puff-pafle round the edge of the difh, but leave no pafle in the bottom of your pie; when it is baked ferve it up without a lid.— This is pro- per lor either top or bottom difh. 301. To make Elder Wine. Take twenty pounds ot Malaga raifins, pick and chop them, then put them into a tub with twenty quarts of water, let the water be bored and Hand till it be cold again before you pur m vour raifins, let them remain together ten days, flirting it twice a day, then flrain the liquor very well from the raifins, through a canvas (trainer or hatr-fieve; add to it fix quarts ol elder juice, five pounds of loaf fugar, and a little juice oi floes to make it acid, juft as you pleafe ; put it into a veflei, and let it ftand in a pretty warm place three months, then bottle it ; t.he vefl'el mull not be Hopped up till it has done working; if vour raifins be very good you may leave out the fugar. 302. To make Gooseberry Wine of ripe Goofeberries. Pick, clean and beat your goofeberries in a mar- ble mortar or wooden bowl, meafure them in quarts up heaped, add two quarts ol fpring water, and let them ftand all night or twelve hours, then rub or prefs out the hufks very well ; flrain them through a wide flrainer, and to every gallon put three pounds of fugar, and a jill of brandy, then put all into a fweet vefl'el, not very full, and keep it very clofe for four months, then decant it off till it comes clear, pout out the grounds, and wafh. the veil'd clean wall a little of the wine ; add to every gallon a pound more fugar, let it Hand a month in the veflei again, drop the grounds through a flan- nel bag, and put it to the other in the veflei ; the tap hole mufl not be over near the bottom ot the cafk, for fear of letting out the grounds.( tl9 $ The fame receipt will ferve for currant wine the lame way ; let them be red currants. 303. To make Balm Wine. Take a peck of balm leaves put them in a tub or large pot, heat four gallons of water fcalding hot, ready to boil, then p >ur it upon the leaves, fo lei ;t hand all night, then firain them thro’ a hait-lieve ; put to every gallon of water two pounds of fine fugar, and it 1 r it very well ; take the whites of four or five eggs, beat them very well, put them into a pan, and whtfk it very well before it be over h"t, when the fkim begins to rife take it off, and keep Ikimming it all the time it is boiling, let n boil three quarters of an hour, then put it into the tub, w en it is cold put a little new yeaftupon it, and beat 11 in every two hours, that it may head the better, fo work it f >r two days, then put it into a fweet rundlet, bung it up dole, and when it is fine, bottle it. 304. To make Raisin Wine. Take ten gallons of water, and fifty pounds of Malaga raifins, pick out the large ftalks and boil them in your water, when the water is boiled, put it into a iuU ; take the raiftns and chop them very imall, when your water is blood warm, put in your raifins, and rub them very well with your hand ; when you have put them into the water, let them work lor ten days, Itirring them twice a day, then If rain out the radius in a hair-fieve, and put them into a clean harden bag, and Iqueeze it in the prefs to take out the liquor, fo put it into your banel ; don’t let it be over full, bung it up clofe, and let it Hand Hill it is fine ; when you tap )Our wine you mull not tap it too near the bottom, for fear of the grounds ; when it is drawn off, take the grounds out of the barrel, and walh it out with a little of your wine, then put your wine into the barrel( *20 ) again, draw your grounds thro’ a flannel bag, and put them into the barrel to the reft ; add to it two pounds of loaf fugar, then bung it up, and let it ftand a week or ten days ; if it be very fweet .to your tafte, let it ftand fome time longer, and bottle it. 305. To make Birch Wine. Take your birch water and boil it, clear it with whites of eggs ; to every gallon of water take two pounds and a half of fine fugar, boil it three quar- ters of an hour, and when it is almoft cold, put in a little yeaft, work it two or thrce'days, then put it into the band, and to every five gallons put in a quart of brandy, and half a pound of Hon’d rai- fins ; before you put in your wine burn a brimftcne match in the barrel. 306. To make White Currant Wine. Take the largeft white currants you can get, ftrip and break them in your hand whilft you break all the berries ; to every quart of pulp take a quart of water, let the water be boiled and cold again, mix them together, let them ftand all night in your tub, then ftrain them through a hair-fieve, and to every gallon put two pounds and a halt of fix-penny fugar ; when your fugar is diffolved, put it into your barrel, diilolve a little ifinglafs, whifk it with whites of eggs, and put it in ; to every four gallons put in a quart of mountain wine, fo bung up your barrel ; when it is fine draw it off, and take out the grounds (but don’t tap the barrel over low at the bottom) walh out the barrel with a little of your wine, and drop the grounds thro’ a bag, then put it to the reft of your wine and put it all into your barrel again, to every gallon add half a pound more fugar, and let it ftand another week or two; if it be too fweet let it ftand a little longer, < then bottle it, and it will keep two or three years*( 12! } 307* To make Orange Ale. Take forty Seville oranges, pare and cut them in llices, the bed: coloured you can get, put them all with the juice and feeds into half a hogfliead of ale ; when it is tunned up and working, put in the oranges, and at the fame time a pound and a half of raifins of the fun, ftoned ; when it has done working clofe up the bung, and it will be ready to drink in a month. 308. To make Orange Brandy. Take a quart of brandy, the peels of eight oranges thin pared, keep them in the brandy forty- eight hours in a clofe pitcher, then take three pints of water, put into it three quarters of a pound of loaf fngar, boil it till half be confumed, and let it Hand till cold, then mix it with the brandy. 309. To make Orange Wine. Take fix gallons of water and fifteen pounds of powder fngar, the whites of fix eggs well beaten, boil them three quarters of an httfir, and fkim them while any lkim will rife ; when it is cold enough for working, put to it fix ounces of the fyrup of citron or lemons, and fix fpoonfuls of yeall, beat the fyrup and ycaft well together, and put in the peel and juice of fifty oranges, work it two days and a night, then tun it up into a barrel, fo bottle it at three or four months old. 310. To make Cowslip Wink. Take ten gallons of water, when it is almoft at boiling, add to it twenty-one pounds of line pow- der fngar, let it boil half an hour, and fkim it very clean ; when it is boiled put it in a tub, let it (land till you think it cold to fet on the yeall ; take a porringer of new ycaft oft'the vat, and put to it a lew co wllips ; when you put on the yeall, put in( ) a few every time it is ftirred, till all the coivflips he in; which mull: be fix pecks, and let it work three or four days ; add to it fix lemons ; cut off the peel, and the infides put into your barrel; then add to it a pint of brandy ; when vou think it has done working, clofe l>d your vefi'tl, let it hand a month, and then bottle it; you may let your cow- flips lie a week or ten days to dry before you make your wine, for it makes it much finer ; you may ptit in a pint of white wine that is good, inltead of the brandy. 311. To make Orange Wine another way. Take fix gallons of water, and fifteen pounds of fug3r, put your fugar into the water on the fire, the whites of fix eggs well beaten, and uhifle them into the water, when it is cold fkim it v<rry well whilft any fkim rifes, and let it boil for half an hour ; take fifty oranges, pare them vfcry thin, put them into your tub, pour the water boiling he t upon vonr par- ings, and when it is blood warm put on the yeaif, then put in your juice, let it work two days, and fo tun it into your barrel ; at fix weeks or two months old bottle it ; you may put to it in the bar- rel a quart of brandy. 312. To make Birch Wine another way. To a gallon of birch water put two pounds of loaf or very fine lump fugar, when you put it into the pan whifk the whites of four eggs ; (four whites will fi r.ve for four gallons) whifk them very w ell to- gether before it be boiled, when it is cold put on a little yeaft, let it work a night and a day in the tub, before you pu» it into your barrel put in a brimllone match burning; take two penny-worth of ifinglafs cut in little bits, put to it a little of your wine, let it (land wi'hin the air ot the fiie all night ; take the whites of two eggs, beat them with your ifinglafs, put them into your barrel and ftir t: r t; r. F . ?ii( I23 ) them about with a (lick; this quantity will do for lour gallons ; to four gallons you mud have two pounds of rail!ns Hired, put them into your barrel, clofe it up, but not too clofe at the firft ; when it is fine bottle it. 313. To make Apricot Wine. Take twelve pounds of apricots when full ripe, done and pare 'them, put the parings into three gallons of water, with fix pounds of powder fugar, boil them together half an hour, lkim them well, and when it is blood warm put it on the fruit ; it mud be well bruifed, cover it clofe, and let it dand three days ; lkim it every day as the lkim rifes, and put it thro’ a hair fieve, adding a pound of loaf fugar; when you put it into the vef- fel clofe it up, and when it is fine bottle it. 314. To make Orange Shrub.. Take Seville oranges, when they are full ripe, to three dozen of oranges put half a dozen of large lemons, pare them very thin, the thinner the bet- ter, fqueeze the lemons and oranges together, drain the juice thro’ a hair-fieve ; to a quart of the juice put a pound and a quarter of loaf fugar •, about three dozen of oranges (if they be good) will make a quart of juice, to every quart of juice, put a gallon of brandy, put it into a little barrel with an open bung with all the chippings of your oranges, and bung it up clofe ; when it is fine bottle it. This is a pleafant dram, and ready for punch a!! the year. 315. To make ftrong Mead. Take twelve gallons of water, eight pounds of fugar, two quarts of honey, and a few cloves, when your pan boils take the whites of eight or ten eggs, beat them very well, put them into your wa- ter before it be hot, and vvhifkthem very well togo( 124 ) Jher ; do not let it boil but fkim it as it rifes till it has done riling, then put it into your tub ; when it is about blood warm put to it three fpoonfuls of new yeaft ; take eight or nine lemons, pare them and fcjueeze out the juice, put them both together into your tub, and let them work two or three days, then put it into your barrel, but it mull not be too full ; take two or three pennyworth of ifinglafs, cut it as fmall as you can, beat it in a mortar about a quarter of an hour, it will not make it fmall ; but that it mav difTolve fooner, draw out a little of the mead into a quart mug, and let it Hand within the air of the fire all night take the whites of three eggs, beat them very well, mix. them with your ifinglafs, whifk them together, and put theta into your barrel, bung it up, and when it is fine bottle it. You may order ifinglafs this way to put into any fort of made wine. 316. To make Mead another way. Take a quart of honey, three quarts of water, put your honey into the water, when it is diffolved take the whites offour or five eggs, whifk and beat them verv well together and put them into your pan ; boil it while die fkim rifes, and fkim it very clean ; put it into your tub, when it is warm put in two or three fpoonfuls of light yealf, according to the quantity of your mead, and let it work two nights and a day. 'J'o every gallon put in a large lemon, pare and drain it, put the juice and peel into your tub, and when it is wrought put it into your bar- rel ; let it work for three or four days, flirting it twice a day with a thiblc, fo bung it up, and let it Hand two or three months, accoiding to the hot- nefs of the weather. You mu ft try your mead two or three times in the above time, and if you find the fwcctnefs goingj off, you mull take it fooner.C I25 ) 317. To make Cyder. Draw oft the cyder when it hath been a fortnight in the barrel, put it into the fame barrel again when you have cleaned it from the grounds, and if your apples were iharp, and that you find your cyder hard, put into every gallon of cyder a pound and a half of fixpenny or fivepenny fugar ; to twelve gallons of this take half an ounce of ilinglafe, and put to it a quart of cyder 5. when your ifinglafs is dilfolved, put to itthree whites of eggs, whifk them all together, and put them into your barrel ; keep itclofe for two months, and then bottle it. 318. To make Cowslip Wine. Take two pecks of peeps, and four gallons of water, put to every gallon of water two pounds and a quarter of fugar, boil the water and fugar toge- ther a quarter of an hour, then put it into the tub to cool, put in the fkins of four lemons, when it is cold bruii'e your peeps, and put them into your li- quor, add to it ajill ofveaft, and the juice of four lemons, let them be in a tub a night and a day, then put it into your barrel, and keep it four days, hir- ing it each day, then clay it up clofe for three weeks and bottle it. Put a lump of fugar in every bottle. 319. To make Red Currant Wine. Let your currants be the beft and ripeh yon can get, pick and bruifethem ; to every gallon of juice add five pints of water, put it to your berries in a {land for twoniglus and a day, then drain your li- quor through a hairlieve ; to every gallon of liquor put two pounds of fugar, hir it till it be well dif- folved, put it into a rundlct, and let it Hand four clays, then draw it off clean, put in a pound and a half of iugar, birring it well, wafh out the rundlct with forac ot the liquor, lo tun it up clofe ; if you.( I2& ) put two or three quarts of rafps bruifeu among your berries, it makes it tafle the better. You may make white currant wine the fame way, only leave out the rafps. 320. To make Cherry Wine. Take eight pounds of cherries and done them, four quarts of water, and two pounds of fugar, {kim and boil the water and fugar, then put in the cherries, let them have one boil, put them into an earthen pot till the next day, and fet them to drain thro’ a fieve, then put your wine into a fpigot pot, clay it up clofe, and look at it every two or three days after •, if it does not work, throw into it a handful of frefh cherries, fo let it Hand fixer eight days, then if it be clear bottle it up, 321. To make Cherry Wine anotherway. Take theripeft and larged Kcntilh cherries you can get, bruife them very well, ftones and ftalks all together, put them into a tub having a tap to it, let them (land fourteen da vs, then pull out the tap, let the juice run from them, and put it into a bar- rel, lei it work three or four days, then (lop it up clofe three or four weeks and bottle it off. This wine will keep many years, and be exceed- ingly licit. 322. To make Lemon Drops. Take a pound of loaf fugar, beat and lift it very fine, grate tire rind of a lemon and put it to your liiiiar ; take the whites of three eggs and whifk them to a froth, fqueeze in feme lemon to your talle, beat them lor half an hour, and drop them on whitepaper ; be litre you let the papcr<fee very dry, and flit a little fine fugar on the paper before you drop them. If you would have them yellow, take a pennyworth of gamboge, deep it in forne rofe( I27 ) water, mix to it fome whites of eggs, and a little fugar, fo drop them, and bake them in a flow oven. 323. To make Gooseberry Wine another way. Take twelve quarts of good ripe goo'feberries, (lamp them, and put to them twelve quarts of ^wa- ter, let them dand three days, flirthem twice every day, firain them and put to your liquor fourteen pounds of l'ugar ; when it is diffolved drain it through a flannel bag, and put it into a barrel, with half an ounce of ifinglafs ; you mud cut the ifinglafs in pieces, and beat it whild it be foft, put to it a pint of your wine, and let it dand within the air of the fire ; take the whites of four eggs and beat them vety well to a froth, put in the ifinglafs, and vvhifk the whites and it together •, put them into the bar- rel, clay it clofe, and let it dand whild fine, then bottle it for ufe. 32.1. To make Red Currant Wine another way. Take five quarts of red currants full ripe, bruife them and take from them ail the flalks, to every five quarts of fruit put a gallon of water ; when you have your quantity, drain them thro’ a hair-fieve, and to every gallon of liquor put two pounds and three quarters of fugar ; when your fugar is diffolv- ed tun it into your cafk, and let it dand three weeks, then draw it off, and pm to every gallon a quarter of a pound of fugar ; wadi your barrel with cold water, tun it up, and let it dand a w'eek ; to every ten gallons put an ounce of ifinglafs, difiolve it in fome of the wine, when it is diffolved put to it a quart of your wine, and beat them with a whific, then piit it into the cad:, and dop it up clofc ; when it is fine, bottle it. If you would have it tafie of rafjps, put to every gallon of wine a quart of rafps ; if there be any grounds in the bottom of the cafk when you draw off your wine, draw them thro’ a flannel bag, and then put it into your cafk.t 128 ) 325. To make Mulberry Wine. Gather your mulberries when they are full ripe, beat them in a marble mortar, and to every quart of berries put a quart of water; when yon put them into the tub, rub ’em very well with your hands, and let them {land all night, then drain them thro’ a fieve ; to every gallon of water put three pounds of fugar, and when the fugar is difiblved put it into your barrel; take two pennyworth of ifinglafs and clip it in pieces, put to it a little wine, and let it Hand all night within the air of the fire; take the whites of two or three eggs, beat them very well, then put them to the ifinglafs, mix them well to- gether, and put them into your barrel, flirring it about when it is put in ; you mud not let it be over ful, nor bung it ciofe up at firft ; let it in a cool place, and bottle it when fine. 326. To make Blackberry Wine. Take blackberries when they are full ripe, and fqueeze them the fame way as you did the mulber- ries. If you add a few mulberries, it will make your wine have a much better tade. 327. To make Syrup of Mulberries. Take mulberries when they are full ripe, break them very well with vour hand, and drop them through a flannel bag ; to every pound of juice take a pound of loaf l'ugar ; beat it fmall, put it to your juice, fo boil and fkim itvuy well, you mud ikitn it all the time it is boiling ; when the fkim has done }ifing it is chough ; when it is coid bottle it and keep it for ufc. You may make rafpberry fyrup the fame way. 328. To make Raspberry Brandy. Take a gallon of the bed brandy you can get, and gather your rafpbcrrics when they arc full ripe, ynd put therm whole into your brandy ; to every gal- lon of brandy take three quails of rafps, let them* ( 129 ) ftand clofe covered for a month, then clear it from the rafps, and put to it a pound of ioaf fugar ; when your fugar is diffolved and a little fettled, bottle it and keep it for ufe. 329. To make Black Cherry Brandy. Take a gallon of the beft brandy, and eight pounds of black cherries, ftune and put ’em into your brandy in an earthen pot ; bruife the {tones in a mortar, then put them into your brandy, and co- ver them up clofe, let them fteep for a month or fix weeks, fo drain it and keep it lor ufe.—You may diftil the ingredients if you pleafe 330- To make R.atafia Brandy. Take a quart of the bed brandy, and about a jill of apricot kernels, blanch and bruife them in a mortar, with a fpoonful or two of brandy, fo put them into a large bottle with your brandy; put to it four,ounces of loat fugar, let it ft and till you think it has got the taile of the kernels, then pour it out and put in a little more brandy if you pleafe. 331. To make Cowslip Syrup. Take a quartern of frefti pick’d cowflips, put to ’em a quart of boiling water, let them ftand all right, 3nd the next morning drain it from the cow - Hips ; to every pint of water put a pound of fine powder fugar, and boil it over a flow fire j fleim it ail the time in the boiling whilft the fkim has done tiling ; then take it off, and when it is cold put it into a bottle, and keep it for ufe. 332. To make Lemon Brandy. Take a gallon of brarMy, chip twenty-five le- mons (let them fteep twenty four hours) the juice of fixteen lemons, a quarter of a pound of almondsv ( 130 blanch’d and beat, drop it thro’ a jelly bag twice, and when it is fine bottle it ; fweeten it to your tade with donblerefined fngar before yon not it into your jelly bag. You miifi make it with the bed brandy you can get. 333. To make Cordial Water of Cowflips. Take two quarts of cowflip peep*, a flip of balm, two fprigs of rofemarv, a flick of cinnamon, half an orange peel, half a lemon peel; lay all thefe ro fleep twelve hours in a pint of brandy, and a pint of ale ; then dillil them in a cold dill. 334. To make Milk Punch. Take two quarts of old milk, a quart of good brandy, the juice of fix lemons or oranges, whe- ther you pleafe, and about fix ounces of loaf-fugar, mix them together, and drop them thro’ a jeliy- bag ; take off' the peel of two of the lemons or oranges, and put it into your bag, when it is run off bottle it ; it will keep as long as you pleafe. 335. To make Milk Punch another way. Take three jills of water, a jill of old milk, and a jill of brandy, fweeten it to your tafte ; you muft not put any acid into this, for it will make it curdle. This is a cooling punch to drink in a morning. 936. To make Punch another way. Take five pints of boiling water, and one quart of brandy, add to it the juice ot four lemons or oranges, and about fix ounces of lqaf-l'ugar ; when you have mixed it together drain it thro’ a hair fieye or cloth, and put into your bowl the peel oi a lemon or orange. 337 To make Acid for Punch. Take goofeberries at their full growth, pick and beat them in a marble mortar, and fquecze them inC i3I ) a harden bag thro’ a prefs, when you have done, run it thro a flannel bag, and then bottle it in (mail bottles ; put a little* oil in eve:y bottle, fo keep it for ufe. 338. To bottje Gooseberries. Gather your goofeberries when they are young, pick and bottle them, put in the coik loole, fet them in a pan 01 water, with a little hay in the bottom, put them into the pan when the water is cold, let it hand on a flow fite, and mind when they are cod fling ; don’t let the pan Doil, if you do it will break the bottles ; when they are cold fallen the coik, and put on a little rofin, lo keep them ior ufe. 339. To bottle Damsins. Take your damfins before they are full ripe, and gather them when the-dew is ofiy pick oft'the llaiks, and put them into drv bottles , don’t fill your bot- tles over full, and cork them as clofe as you would do ale, keep them in a cellar, and cover them over with land. 3-j.o. To preferve Orange Chips to put in glulfcs. "lake a Seville orange with a clear fkin, pare it very thin Irom the white, then take a pair ot 1 ciliars and clip it very thin, and boil it in water, Ihifting it two or three times in the boiling to take out the bitter ; then take half a pound of double-refuted fu- gar, boil it arid fkiut it, then put in your orange, fo let it boil over a flow fire whilft your fyrup be thick, and your orange look clear, then put it into glalfes, and cover it with papers dipt in brandy ; if you have a quantity of peel you mull have a larger quantity of fugar. 341. To preferve OttANCESor Lemons. Take Seville oranges, the largcll and roughefl: you can get clear ol fpols, chip them very fine,) ( r32 and put them in water for two days, fhifting them twice or three times a day, then boil them whilft they are foft ; take and cut them in quarters, and take out the pippins with a penknife, fo weigh them, and to every pound of orange, take a pound and half ofloaf-fugar ; put your fugar into a pan, and to every pound of fugar a pint of water, fet it over the fire to melt, and when it boils fkim it very well, then put in your oranges ; if you would have any of them whole, make a hole at the top, and take out the meat with a tea fpoon, fet your oranges over a flow fire to boil, and keep them fkimming all the^while ; keep your oranges as much as you can with the (kin downwards ; you may cover them with a delf plate, to bear them down in the boiling ; let them boil for three quarters of an hour, then put them into a pot or bafon, and let them fiand two da\*s covered, then boil them again, whilft they look clear, and the fvrupbe thick, fo put them into a pot, and lie clofe over ihem a paper dipp'd in bran- dy, and tie a double paper at the top, fet them in a cold place, and keep them for ufe. If vou would have your oranges that are whole to look pale and clear, to put in glades, you mult make a fyrnp of pippin jelly ; then take ten or a dozen pippins, as they-aie of bignefs, pare and flice them, and boil them in as much water as will cover them till they be thoroughly tender, fo drain your water from the pippins thro* a hair fieve, then drain it thro* a flannel bag ; and to every pint of jelly take a pound of double-refined fugar, fet it over a fire to boil, and fkim it, let it boil whilft it be thick, then put it into a pot and cover it, but they will keep bed if they be put every one in different pots. 342. To make J elly of Currants. 1 akc a quartern of the larged and bed currants you can get, drip them from the dalks and put( r33 ) them in a pot, flop them clofe tip, and boil them in a pot of water over the fire, till they be thoroughly coddled and begin to look pale, then put them in u clean hair-fieve to drain, and run the liquor through a flannel bag ; to every pint of liquor put in a pound of double-refined fugar ; you muft beat the fugar fine, and put it in by degrees, fet it over the fire, and boil it whilft any fkim will rife, then put it into glafles for ufe ; the next day clip a paper round, ancT dip it in brandy to lay on your jelly ; if you would have your jelly a light red, put in half a quartern of white currants, and in my opinion it looks much better. 343. To preferve Apricots. Take apricots before they are full ripe, fione and pare them j then weigh them, and to every pound of apricots lake a pound of double-refined fugar, beat it very fmall, lie one part of your fugar under the apricots, and the other part at the top, let them hand all night, the next day put them in a (lew- pan or brafs pan ; don’t do over many at once in your pan, for fear of breaking, let them boil over a flow fire, fkim them very well, and turn them two or three times in the boiling ; vou muft but about half do them at the firfi, and let them fianti vvhilfl they be cool, then let them boil whilfl your apricots look clear, and the fyrup thick, put them into your pots or glalfes, when they are cold cover them with a paper dipt in brandy, ihcn tie another paper clofe over your pot to keep out the air. 34.4. To make Marmalade of Apricots. Take what quantity of apricots you fhall think proper, (lone them and put them immediately into a ikillet of boiiing water, keep them under water on the fire till they be foft then take them out of tin! water and wine them with a cloth, weigh your( *34 ) fugar with your apricots, weight for weight, then dilTolveyour fugar in water, and bull it to a candy height, then put in your apricots, being a little bruifed, let them boil but a quarter of an hour, then glafs them up. 345. To know when Sugar is at Candy Height. Take fome fugar and clarify it, keep it boiling till it becomes thick, then flir it with a hick from you, and when it is at candy-height it will fly from your flick like flakes of fnow, or feathers flying in the air, and till it comes to that height it will not fly, then you may ufe it as you pleafe. 346. To make Marmalade of Quinces white. Take your quinces and coddle them as you do apples, when they are foft pare them and cut them in pieces, as if you would cut them for apple pies, then put your cores, parings, and the wafle of your quinces in fome water, and boil them fall for fear of turning red, until it be a flrong jcllv ; when you fee the jelly pretty flrong flrain it, and be fure you boil them uncovered ; add as much fugar as the weight of your quinces into your jelly, till it be boiled to a height, then put in your coddled quinces, and boil them uncovered till they be enough, and fet them near the fire to harden. 347. To make Quiddany of Red Currant- Berries. Put your berries into a pot, with a fpoonful or two ot water, cover it clofc, and boil ’em in fome water, when' you think they are enough flrain them, and put to every pint of juice a pound of loaf fugar, boil it up jelly height, and put them intoglaifes for ufe. 348. Topreferve Gooseberries. ’ To a pound of flon’d goofeberrics put a pound and a quarter of fine fugar, wet the fugar with the( *35 ) goofeberry jelly ; take a quart of goofeberries, and two or three fpoonfuls of water, boil them very quick, let your fugar be melted, and then put in your goofeberries ; boil them till clear, which will be very quickly. ( \ 34.9. To make little Almond Cakes. Take a pound of fugar and eight eggs, beat them well an hour, then put them into a pound of flour, beat them together, blanch a quarter of a pound of almonds, and beat them with rofe-water to keep ’em from oiling, mix all together, butter your tins,, and bake them half an hour. Half an hour is rather too long for them to (land in the oven. 350. To preferve Red Gooseberr ies. Take a pound of fixpenny fugar, and a little juice of currants, put to it a pound and a half of goofe- berries, and let them boil quick a quarter of an hour; but if they be for jam they mull boil better than half an hour. They are very proper for tarts, or to eat as fvveet- meats. 351. To bottle Berries another way. Gather your berries when they are full grown, pick and bottle them, tie a paper over them, prick it with a pin, and fet it in the oven after you have drawn ; when they are coddled, take them out, and when they are cold cork them up ; rofln the cork over, and keep them for ufe. 352. To keep Barberries for Taits all the Year. Take barberries when they are full ripe, and pick them from the llalk, put them into dry bot- tles, cork them up very clofe, and keep them for life. \ou may do cramberries the fame way. M 2( *36 ) 353. To preferve Barberries for Tarts. Take barberries when full ripe, ftrip them, lake their weight in fugar, and as much water as will wet your fugar, give it a boil and (kim it ; then put in your berries, let them boil whilft they look clear and your fyrup thick, fo put them into a pot, and when they are cold cover them up with a pa- per dipped in brandy. 354. To preferve Damsins. Take damfins before they are full ripe, and prick them, take their weight in fugar, and as much water as will wet your fugar, give it a boil and fkim it, then put in your damfins, let them have one feald, and fet them by whilft cold, then feald them again, and continue fealding ’em twice a day ■whilft your fyrup looks thick, and the damfins clear ; you muft never let them boil ; do them in a brafs pan, and do not tak? them cut in the doing ; when they are enough put them into a pot, and cover them up with a paper dipped in brandy. 355. How to keep Damsins for Tarts. Take damfins before, they are full ripe, to every quart of damfins put a pound of powder fugar, put them into a pretty broad pot. a layer of fugar and a layer of damfins, tie them clofe up, fet them in a flow oven, and let them have a heat every day whilft the fyrup be thick, and the damfins enough ; yender a little llieep fuct and pour over ’em, fo keep them for life. 356. To keep Damsins another way. Take damfins before they be quite ripe, pick off the llalks, and put them into drv bottles ; cork them as you would do ale, and keep them in a cool place for life. 347. To make Mango of Codlins. l ake codlins when they are at their lull growth, and of the grecncft fort, take a little out of the end( *37 ) with the flalk, and then take out the core ; lie them in a ftrong fait and water, let them lie ten days or more, and fill them with the fame ingredients as you do other mango, only fcald them oftener. 358. To pickle Currant-berries. Take currants either red or white before they are thoroughly ripe, you mud not take them from the ftalk, make a pickle of fait and water and a little vinegar, fo keep them for ufe.—They are proper for garni filing. 359. To keep Barberries inftead of preferving. Take barberries and lie them in a pot, a layer of barberries and a layer of fugar, pick the feeds out before for garnifhing fweetmeats, if for fauces put fome vinegar to ’em. 360. To keep Asparagus or Green-Peas a year. Take afparagus or green peas, green them as you do cucumbers, and fcald them as you do other pickles with fait and water ; let it be always new pickle, and when you would ufe them boil them in frcfii water. r361. To make White Paste of Pippins. I ake fome pippins, pare and cut them in halves, and take out the cores, then boil ’em very tender in fair water, and firain them through a fieve, then c'arify two pounds of fugar with two whites of eggs,. and boil it to a candy height, put two pounds and a halt of the pulp of your pippins into it, let it fiand over a flow fire drying, keeping it ftirring till it comes clear from the bottom of your pan, then - lie them upon plates or boards to dry.( *38 ) 362. To make Green Paste of Pippins. Take green pippins, put them into a pot and cover them, let them Hand infufing over a flow fire, five or fix hours to draw the rednefs or fappi- nefs from them, and then drain them through a hair fieve ; take two pounds of fngar, boil it to a candy height, put to it two pounds of the pulp of youx pippins, keep it fiirring over the fire till it comes clean from the bottom of your pan, then lay it on plates or boards, and fet it on an oven or flove to dry. 363. To make Red Paste of pippins. Take two pounds of fugar, clarify it, then take roflet and temper it very well with fair water, put it into your fyrup, let it boil till your fyrup is pret- ty red colour’d with it, then drain your fyrup thro’ a fine cloth, and boil it tiil it be at candy-height, then put to it two pounds and a half of the pulp of pippins, keeping it fiirrtng over the tire till it comes clean from the bottom of the pan, then lie it on pdaies or boards, fodrythem. 364. To preferve Fruit green. Take your fruit when they are green, and fome fair water, fet it on the fire, and wnen it is hot put in the apples, cover them clofe, but they mud not boil, lb let them flam! till they he foft, and there will be a thin ifkin on them, peel it od', and fet them to cool, thin put them in again, let them boil till they be verv green, and keep them as whole as you can ; when you think them ready to take up, make your fyrup for them ; take their weight in fugar, ami when your fyrup is ready put the apples into it, and boil them verv well in it : they will keep all the year near fome fire. You may do green plumbs or other fruit.( *39 ) 365. To make Orange Marmalade. Take three or four Seville oranges, grate them, take out the meat, and boil the rinds whilft they are tender; fhift them three or four times in the boilinp- to take out the bitter, and beat them very fine in a marble mortar ; to the weight of your pulp take a pound of loaf fugar, and to a pound of fug3r you may add a pint of water, boil and fkim it before you put in your oranges, let it boil half an hour very quick, then put in your meat, and to a pint take a pound and a half of fugar, let it boil quick half an hour, ftir it all the time, and when it is boiled to a jelly, put it into pots or glalTes ; cover it with a paper dipped in brandy. 366. To make Quinces urhite another way. Coddle your quinces, cut them in fmall pieces, and to a pound of quinces take three quarters of a pound of fugar, boil it to a candy height, having ready a quarter of a pint of quince liquor boiled and fkimmed, put the quinces and liquor to your fugar, boil them till it looks clear, which will be very quickly, then clofe your quince, and when cold cover it with jelly of pippins to keep the colour. 367. To make Gooseberry Vinegar. To every gallon of water take fix pounds of ripe goofeberries, bruife them, and pour the water boil- ing hot upon your berries, cover it clofe, and fet it in a warm place to ferment, till all the berries come to the top, then draw it off, and to every gallon of liquor put a pound and a half of fugar, then tun it into a cafk, fet it in a warm place, and in fix months it will be fit for ufe. 368. To make Gooseberry Vinegar another way. Take three pounds of green goofeberries to a quait of water, and a pound of fugar, {lamp your( Ho ) berries and throw them into your water as you damp them, it will make them drain the better ; when it is drained put in your fugar, beat it well with a difti for half an hour, then drain it thro’ a finer drainer into your vedel, leaving it fome room to work, and when it is clear bottle it ; your berries mud be clean pick’d before you ufe them, and let them be at their full growth when you ufe them, ra- ther changing colour. 369. To make Jam of Cherries. Take ten pounds of cherries, done and boil them till the juice be waded, then add to it thfee pounds of fugar, and give it three or four good boils, then put it into your pots. 370. To preferve Cherries. To a pound of cherries take a pound of fugar finely fifted, with part of which drew the bottom of your pan, having doned the cherries, lay a layer of cherries and a layer of fugar, drewing the fugar verv well over all, boil them over a quick fire a good while, keeping them clean fkimm’d till they look clear, and the fyrup is thick and both of one colour •, when you think them half done, take them off the fire for an hour, after which fet them on again, and to every pound of fruit put in a quar- ter of a pint of the juice of cherries and red cur- rants, fo boil them till enough, and the fyrup is jellied, then put them in a pot, and keep them clofe from the air. 371. To preferve Cherries for drying. Take two pounds of cherries and done them, pnt to them a pound of fugar, and as much water as will wet the fugar, then fet them on the fire, let them boil till they look clear, take them off the fire,( Hi ) and let them (land a while in the fyrup, and tlien take them up and lay them on paper to dry. •372. To preferve Fruit green all the Year. Gather your fruit when they arc three parts ripe, on a very dry day, when the fun fhines on them, then take earthen pots and put them in, cover the pots with cork, or bung them that no air can get into them, dig a place in the earth a yard deep, fet the pots therein and cover them with the earth very dole, and keep them for ufe. When you take any out, cover them up again, as at the firft. 373. How to keep Kidney Beans all Winter. Take kidney beans when they are young, leave on both the ends, lay a layer of fait at the bottom of your pot, and then a layer of beans, and fo on till your pot be full, cover them clofe at the top that they get no air, and fet them in a cool place ; before you boil them lav them in waier all night, let your water boil when you put them in ( ithout fait; and put into it a lump of butter about the bign'efs of a walnut. 374. To candy Angelica. Take angelica when it is young and tender, take off all the leaves from the fialks, boil it in the pan with feme of the leaves under, and fome at the top, till it be fo tender that von can peel off all the {kin, then put it into fome water again, cover it over with fome oi the leaves, let it fimmer over a flow fire till it be green, when it is green drain the wa- ter from it, and then weigh it ; to a pound of an- gelica take a pound of loaf fugar, put a pint of w'a- ter to every pound of fugar, boil and fkim it, and then put in your angelica ; it will take a great deal of boiling in the fugar, the longer you boil it and the greener it will be, boil it vvhilft your fugar( *4* ) be candy height, you may know when it is candv- height by the fide of your pan ; if you would have it nice and white, you mud have a pound of fugar boiled candy-height in a copper didi or dew pan, fet it over a chafing difh, and put into it your an- gelica, let it have a boil, and it will candy as you take it out. 375. To dry Pears. Take half a peck of good baking pears (or as many as you pleafe) pare and put them in a pot, and to a peck of pears put in two pounds of fugar ; you mu(! put in no water, but lie the parings on the top of your pears, tie them up clofe, and fet them in a brown bread oven ; when they are baked lay them in a dripping-pan, and flat them a little in your pan ; fet them in a flow oven, and turn them every day whilft they be thoroughly dry ; fo keep them for ufe.—You may dry pippins the fame way, only as you turn them grate over them a little fugar. 376. To preferve Currants in bunches. Boil your fugar to the fourth degree of boiling, tie your currants up in bunches,. then place them in order in the fugar, and give them fcveral covered boilings, fkim them quick, and let them not have above two or three Teethings, then fkim them again, and fet them into the dove in the preferring pan,th^ next day drain them, and drefis them in bunches, drew them with fugar, and dry them in a dove cr in the fun. 377. To dry Apricots. To a pound of apricots put three quarters of a pound of fugar, pare and done them, to a layer of fruit lie a layer of fugar, let them dand till the next day, then boil them again till they be clear,( H3 ) when cold take them out of the fyrup, and lay them upon glaffcs or china, and fift them over with dou- ble refined fugar, fo fet them on a Hove to dry, next day if they he dry enough turn them, and fift the other fide with fugar; let the fiones be broke and the kernels blanch’d, and give them a boil in the fyrup, then put them into the apricots ; you mud not do too many at a time, for fear of break- ing them in the fyrup ; do a great many, and the more you do in it, the better they will tafle. 378. To make Jumballs another way. Take a pound of meal dry, a pound of fugar finely beat mix them together : then take the yolks of five or fix eggs, as much thick cream as will make it up to a patfe, and fome coriander feeds ; roll them and lay them on tins, prick and bake them in a quick oven ; before you fet them in the oven wet them with a little role-water and double refined fugar, and it will ice them. 379. Topreferve Okances whole. Take what quantity of oranges you have a mind to preferve, chip off the rind, the thinner the bet- ter, put them into water twenty-four hours, in that time fhift them in the water, (to take off the bitter) three times ; you mult fhift them wiih boiling wa- ter, cold water makes them hard ; put double the weigh,t of fugar for oranges, diffolve your fugar in water, fkim it, and clarify it with the white of an egg ; before you put in your oranges, boil them in fyrup three or four times, three or four days betwixt each time; yoii muff take out the inmeat of the oranges very clean, for fear of mudding the fyrup. 380. To make Jam of Damfins. Take damfins when they are ripe, and to two pounds of damfins take a pound of fugar, put your( H4- ) fugar into a pan with a jill of water, when you have boiled it put in your damflns, let them boil pretty quick, fkim them all the tinr.e they are boil- ing, when your fyrnp looks' thick they are enough, pul them into your pots, and when they are cold cover them with a paper clipp’d in brandy, tie them up clofe, and keep them for ufe. / 381. To make clear Cakes of Goofeberries. Take a pint of jelly, a pound and a quarter of fugar, make your jelly with three or four i'poonfuls of water, and put your fugar and jelly together, fet it over the fire to heat, but don’t let it boil, then put it into the cake pots, and fet it in a flow oven till iced over. 382. To make Bullies Cheese. Take half a peck or a quartern of bullies, whe- ther you pleafe, pick off the flalks, put them in a pot, and flop them up very clofe, let them in a pot of water to boil for two hours, and be fure your pot be full of water, and boil them till they be enough, then put them in a hair fieve to drain the liquor from the bullies ; and to every quart of li- quor put a pound and a quarter of fugar, boil it over a flow fire, keeping it ftirring all the time : You may know w hen it is boiled high enough by the parting from the pan, put it into pots and cover it with papers dipp’d in brandy, fo tic it up clofe and keep it for ufe. 383. To make Jam of Bullies. Take the bullies that remained in the fieve, to every quart of it take a pound of fugar, and put it to your jam, boil it over a flow fire, put it in pots, and keep it for ufe. 384. To make Syrup of Gilliflawcrs. Take five pints of dipt gilliflowers, and put to them two pints of boiling water, then put them inC H5 ) an earthen pot to infufe a night and a day, take a {trainer and (train them out ; to a quart of your liquor put a pound and a half of loat fugar, boil it over a (low fire, and ikira it whilft any fkim rifes ; fo when it is cold bottle it for ufe. 385. To pickle Gilliflowers. Take clove gilliflowers, when they are at full growth, clip them and put them into a pot, put them pretty fad down, anti put to them fome white wine vinegar, as much as will cover them ; fweet- cn them with fine powder fugar, or common loaf; when you put in your fugar Air them up that your fugar may go down to the bottom ; they mull be very fweet; let them (land two or three days, and then put in a little more vinegar ; fo tie them up for ufe. 386. To pickle Cucumbers diced. Pare thirty large cucumbers, dice them into a pewter difh, take fix onions, dice and drew on them fome fait, fo cover them and let them ftand to drain twenty-four hours ; make your pickle of white wine vinegar, nutmeg, pepper, cloves and mace, boil the fpices in the pickle, drain the li- quor clean from the cucumbers, put them into a deep pot, pour the liquor upon them boiling hot, and cover them very clofe ; when they are cold drain the liquor from them, give it another boil ; and when it is cold pour it on them again ; fo keep them for ufe. , 387. To make Cupid Hedge Hogs. Take a quarter of a pound of Jordan almonds, and half a pound of loaf fugar, put it into a pan with as much water as will juft wet it, let it boil whilft it be fo thick as will (lick to your almonds, then put in your almonds and let them boil in it 5( I# ) liave ready a quarter of a pound of fmalJ coloured comfits ; take your almond^ out of the fvrup one by one, and turn them round whilft they be cover- ed over, fo lie them on a pewter di(h as you da them, and fet them before the fire, whilft'yomhava done therfi all. • They are pretty to put jn glades, or to fet in a defert. 388. To make Almond H edgEtHogs. Take half a pound of the belt almonds, and blanch them, beat them with two or three fpoonfuls of rofe water in a marble mortar, very final), then take fix. eggs (leave out two of the whites) beat your eggs very well, take half a pound of loaf fugar beat- en, and four ounces of clarified butter, mix them all well together, put them into a pan, fet them over the fire, and keep it ftirrin’g whilft'it be ftifF, then put it into a china diih, and when it is cold make it up in the fhape of an hedge-hog, put cur- rants for eyes, and a bit of candy’d orange for tongue ; you may leave out part of the almonds un- beaten ; take them and fplit them in two, then ci t them in long bus to flick into your hedge-hog all over, then take two pints of cream cultard to pour over your hedge-hog, according to the bignefs of your difh •, lie round yourdifh edge llices of candyM or preferved orange, which you have, fo ferve it up. 389. To pot Salmon to keep half a year. Take a fide of frefh falmon, takeout the bone, cut off the head and fcale it ; yon mull not waih, b it wipe it with a drv cloth j cut it in three pieced, feafon it with mace, pepper, fait and nutmee, put it into a flat pot with the 1km fide downward, lie over it a pound of butter, tie a paper over it, and fend it to the oven, about an hour .rnd a half will bake it ; if you have more faimon in your pot than( m ) N 1 three pieces it wiH take more baking, and you mud: put in more butter ; when it is baked take it out of your pot, and lie it on a fifh plate to drain, and take off the (kin, fo feafon it over again, for if it be not well feafoned it will not keep; put it into your pot piece by piece ; it will keep bed in little pots ; when you put it into your pots, prefs it well down with the back of your band, and when it is cold cover it with clarified butter, and let it in a cool place ; fo keep it for ufe. 390. To make a Codlin Pie. Take codlins before they are over old, hang them over a flow fire to coddle, when they are foit peel off the fkin, fo put them into the fame water again, then cover them up with vine leaves, and let them hang over the fire whild they be green ; be lure you don’t let them boil ; lav them whole in the difh, and bake them in puff pade, but leave no pade in the bottom of the difh ; put to them a little lhred 1cmon-peel, a fpoonful of verjuice or juice of lemon, and as much fugar as you think proper, ac- cording to the largenefs of your pie. 391. To make a Colliflonvkr Pudding. Boil the flowers in milk, take the tops and lay them in a difh, ’hen take three jills of cream, the yolks of eight eggs, and the whites of two, leaun it with nutmeg, cinnamon, mace, fugar, fack, or orange flower-water, beat all well togethei, then pour it over tlie colltflower, put it into the over, bake it as you would a cudard, and orate fugar over it w hen it comes from the oven. I ake fugar, fack and butter for fauce. 392. To make Stock for Haitdiorn Jelly. I ake five or fix ounces of hartlhorn, put it into a gallon ot water, hang it over a flow Hre, cover it( 148 ) clofe, and let it boil three or four hour?, fo drain it; make it the day before you ufe it, and then you may have it ready for vour jellies. 393. To make Syrup of Violets. Take violets and pick them ; to every pound of violets put a pint of water, when the water is juft ready to boil put it to your violets, and flir them well together, let them infufe twenty-four hours and drain them ; to every pound of fyrup, take almod two pounds of fugar, beat the fugar very well and put it into your fyrup, dir 'it that the fu- gar may diifolve, let it dand a day or two, dirring it two or three times, then fet it on the fire, let it be hut warm and it will be thick enou-’h. O You may make your fyrup either of violets or gilliflowers, oniy take the weight of fugar, let it Itand on the fire till it be very hot, and the fyrup of violets mud be only warm. 394. To pickle Cockles. Take cockles at a full moon and wafh them, then put them into a pan, and cover them with a wet cloth, when they arc enough put them into a done bowl, take them out of the (hells and waih them very well in their own pickle ; let the pickle fettle every time you vvalh them, then clear it <>lf; when you have cleaned them, put the pickle into a pan with a fpoonful or two of white wine and a little white wilicvinegar to your tade, put in a lit- tle Jamaica and whole pepper, boil it very well fn the pickle, then put in your cockles, let them have a boil and fkim them, when they are cold put them in a bottle with a little oil over them, fet them is a cool place and keep them for ufe.( M9 ) N 3 39v To preferve Quinces whole or in quarters. Take the larged quinces when they are at full growth, pare them and throw them into water, when you have pared them cut them in quarters, and take out the cores ; if you would have any whole you mud take out the cores with a fcope ; fave all the cores 3nd parings, and put them in a pot or pan to coddle your quinces in, with as much water as will cover them, fo put in your quinces in the middle of your parings into the pan (be furc you cover them clofe up at the top) fo let them hang over a flow fire whilftthey be thoroughly ten- der, then take them out and weigh them ; to every pound of quince take a pound of loaf fugar, and to every pound of fugar take a pint of the fame water you coddled your quinces in, fet your water and fugar over the fire, boil it and {kim it, then put in your quinces, and cover it clofe up, fet it over a flow fire, and let it boil whild your quinces be red and the fyrup thick, then put them in pots for ufe, dipping a paper in brandy to lie over them. 396. To pickle Sh r imps. Take the larged fhrimps you can get, pick them eut of the (hells, boil them in a jill of water, or as much water as will cover them, according as you have a quantity of lhrimps, drain them thro’ a hair fieve, then put to the liquor a little Ipice, mace, cloves, whole pepper, white wine, white wine vinegar, and a little fait to your talk ; hoii them very well together ; w hen it is cold put in your fhrimps, they are fit tor ufe. 397. To pickle Muscles. Wall) yoiir rrmlcles, put them into a pan as you do your cockles, ptek them our of the llvells, and Walh them in the liquor ; be lure you take off the tieards, lo boil them in the liquor with fpices, as( 15® )’ you do your cockles, only put to them a little more vinegar than you do to cockles. 398. To pickle Walnuts green. Gather walnuts when they are fo young that you can run a pin through them, pare them and put them in water, and let them lie four or five days, flirting it twice a'day to take out the bitter, then put them in (Irong fait and water, let them lie a week or ten days, flirting it once cy: twice a day, then put them in frefh fait and water, and hang them over a fire, put to them a little allum, and cover them up clofe with vine leaves, let them hang over a flow fire whiilf they be green, but be fure don*t let them boil ; when they are green put them into a fieve to drain the water from them. 399. To make Pickle for them. Take a little good alegar, put to it a little long pepper and Jamaica pepper, a few bay leaves, a little horfe radifh, a handful or two of muftard feed, a little fait and a little rocambole if you have any, if not a few fhalots ; boil them all together in the alegar, which put to your walnuts and let it Hand tfiree or four days, giving them a feald once a day, then tie them up for life.—A fpoonful of this pickle isgood lor filh-fauce, or a calfs-head hafli. 400. To pickle Walnuts black. Gather walnuts when they are fo tender that you can run a pin thro’ them, prick them all with a pin very well, lie them in frefh water, and let them lie for a week, flit ting *hen> once a day ; make for them a ftrong (alt and water, and let them lie whilfl they be yellow, ftirring them once a day, then take them out of the lab and water, and make a lrefli fait and water and boil it, put it.( *5* 5 on the top of your walnuts, and let your pot (land in the corner end, fcaid them once or twice a day whiKl they be black. You may make the fame pickle for thofe as you did tor the green ones. 401. To pickle Oysters. Take the largefl oyfters you can get, pick them whole out of the fhell, and take off the beards, wa(h them very well in their own pickle, fo let the pickle fettle, and clear it off, put it into a ftew- pan, put to it two or three fpoonfuls of white wine, and a little white wine vinegar ; don’t put in any water, for if there be not pickle enough of their own, get a little cockle pickle and put to it, a lit- tle Jamaica pepper, white pepper and mace, boil and fkim them very well ; you muft fkitn it before you put in your fpices, then put in your oyflers, and let them have a boil in the piclde, when they are cold put them into a large bottle, with a little | oil on the top, fet them in a cool place and keep them for ufe. 402. To pickle Cucumbers. Take cucumbers and put them in a ftrong fait and water, let them lie wlifUl ihey he very y. llow, then leak! them in the fame fait and water they lie in, fet them on the fire, and fcaid 'hem once a day whilft they a e green ; take the'beff alegar you can get, put to n a little Jamaica pepper and black pepper, fome It >rte-radi'h in {lice1', a few bay leaves, and a Hole dill and fait, fo fcaid your cu- cumbers wice or thrice in this pickle, then put them up :ot nle. 403 To pickle Onions. ;5,T?ke the fiqaUcit .opimji.s-vmu.can get, peel and jut them into a large quauftjy^pf lair water, let( 152 ) them lie two days and (liift them twice a day ; then drain them from the water, take a little diltill’d vi- negar, put to’em two or three blades of mace, and a little white pepper and (alt, boil it, and pour it into your onions, let them (land three davs, fcald- ing 'em every day, fo put them into little glafles, and tie a bladder over them ; they are very good done with alegar, for common ufe, only put in Jamaica pepper inflead of mace. 404 To pickle Elder Buds. Take elder buds when they are the bignefs of fmall walnuts, lie them in a flxong (alt and water for ten days, and then fcald them in frefh fait and water, put in a lump of allum, let them (land in the corner end clofe cover’d up, and (calded once a day whild green. You maydoradifh cods or brow n buds the fame way. 40J. To make the Pickle. Take a little alegar or white wine vinegar, and put to it two or three blades of mace, with a little whole pepper and Jamaica pepp-r, a few bay leaves and fait, put to your buds, and fcald them two or three times. 406. To pickle Mushrooms. Take mulhrooms when frefh gather'd, fort the Targe ones from the buttons, cut oft the (lalks, walh them in water with a flannel, have a pan of waier ready on the fire to boil ’em in, tor tiie lets, tli- y lie in tile w. ter die better ; le diem have two or duee boils over the fire, then put them into a firve, auel wlie'ii you have diained the water from the" put them into a pot, thp wover hem a hand- ful of lait, (lop them up cly/e > ith a cloth, and Jet ,em and t \ o or time hours on ihe hot hearth or rang' ’ vnu, giving yol r pot ■ ih-ke now-and then ; then drain .tire pickle from them, and lif( i53 ) them in a dry cloth for an hour or two, fo put them into as much diddl'd vinegar as will cover them, let them lie a week or ten days, then take them out, and put them in dry bottles; put to them a little whie pepper, fait and ginger diced, fill ’em up with diddl’d vinegar, put over them a little Tweet oil, and cork them up clofe ; if your vinegar be good they will keep two or three years ; I know it by experience. You mud be fure not to fill your bottles above three parts full, if you do they will not keep. 407. To pickle Mushrooms another way. Take mudirooms and wafh them with a flannel, throw them into water as yon wadi them, only pick the fmall from the large, put them into a pot, throw over them a little fait, flop tip your pot Clofe with a cloth, boil ’em in a pot of water as you do currants when you make a jelly, give them a (hake now and then ; you may guefs when they are enough by the quantity of liquor that comes from them ; when you think they are enough drain from them the liquor, put in a little white wine vinegar, and boil in it a little mace, white pep- per, Jamaica pepper, and dic’d ginger; when it is cold put it to the mudirooms, bottle ’em and • keep ’em for ufc. They will keep this way very well, and have more of the tafle of mudirooms, but they will not be altogether fo white. 408 To pickle Potatoe Crabs. Gather your crabs when they are young, and about the bignefs of a large cherry, lie them in a ftrong fait and water as you do other pickles, let them Hand for a week or ten days, then feald them in the fame water they lie in twice a day whilft green; make th'd fame pickle for them as you do( 154 ) for cucumbers ; be fure you fcald them twice or thrice in the pickle, and they will keep the better. 409. To pickle large Buttons. Take your buttons, clean ’em and cut ’em in three or four pieces, put them into a large fauce- pan to flew in their own liquor, put to them a little Jamaica and whole pepper, a blade or two of mace, and a little fait, cover it up, let it dew over a flow fire w 1111 ft you think they are enough, then drain from them their liquor, and put to it a little white wine vinegar or alegar, which you pleafe, give it a boil together, and when it is cold put it to your muihrooms, and keep them for ufe. You may pickle flaps the fame way. 410. To make Catchup. Take large mufhrooms when they are frefh ga- thered, cut off the dirty ends, break them fmalL with your hands, put them in a done-bowl with a handful or two of fait, and let them (land all night; if you don’t get muihrooms enough at once, with a little fait they will keep a dav or two wlulft vou get more, fo put ’em in a (lew-pot, and let them in an oven with h6u(hold bread ; when they are chough (train from ’em the liquor, and let it itand , to fettle, then boil it with a little mace, Jamaica and whole black pepper, two or three ihalots, boil c it over a How fire for an hour, when it is boiled let it dand to fettle, and when it is cold bottle it; if you boil it well it will keep a year or two; you mod put in fpices according to the quantity ot your catchup; you mud not wafh them, nor put to them any water. 411. To make Mango of Cucumbers or fmall f. Melons. ^ 0: Gather cucumbers when they arc green, cut a c, bit off the end and take out all the meat ; lie them tit( 155 ) in a ftrong fait and water, let them lie for a week or ten days whilft they be yellow, then fcald them in the fame fait and water they lie in, whilft green, then drain from them the water.; take a little mtiftard- feed, a little horfe radifh, fome fcraped and fome Hired fine, a handful of fhalots, a claw or two of garlick if you like the tafte, and a little fhred mace ; take fix or eight cucumbers Hired fine, mix them amongft the relt of the ingredients, then fill your melons or cucumbers with the meat, and put in the bits at the ends, tie them on with a firing, fo take as much alegar or white wine vinegar as will well cover them, and put into it a little Jamaica and whole pepper, a little horfe radifh and a handful or two of muitard feed, then boil it, and pour it upon your mango ;• let it Hand in the corner, end two or three days, fcald them, once a day, and then tie them up for ufe. ■ > 412. To,pickle Garkins. Take garkins of the firft growth, pick them clean, put them in a flrong fait and water, let them lie a week or ten days whilft they be thorough- ly yellow, then fcald them in the fame fait and wa- ter they lie in, fcald them once a day, and let them lie whilrt they are green, then fet them in the corner end clofc covered. 413. To make Pickle for your Cucumbers. Take a little alegar (the quantity mtifl be equal to the quantity of your cucumber , and fo irmft your feaionmg) a little pipper, a little Jamaica and long pepper, two or three fhalots, and a little horfe-radith fcraped or fliced, a little fait and a bit of alluin ; boil them altogether, and fcald yourcu- cumbcVs*two or three times with your pickle, fo tie them up tor ufe.( *5& ) 414. To pickle Cqlliflower white. Take the whiteft collifiower you can get, break it in pieces the bignefs of a mufhroom ; take as much diftill’d vinegar as will cover it, and put to it a little white pepper, two or three blades of mace, and a little fait, then boil it and pour it on your col- liflowers three times, let it be cold, then put it into your glafles or pots, and wet a bladder to tie over it to keep out the air. You may do white cabbage the fame way. 415. To pickle Red Cabbage. Take a red cabbage, chufe it a purple red, for a light red never proves a good colour ; fo take your cabbage and flared it in very thin flices, feafon it with pepper and (alt very thin, let it lie all night upon a. broad tin, or a dripping pan1, take a little alegar, put to it a little Jamaica pepper, and twp or three races of ginger, boil them together, and when it is cold pour it upon your cabbage, and in two or three days time it will be fit for ufe. You may throw a little collifiower among it, and it will turn red. 416. To pickle Collifiower another way. Take the collifiower and break it in pieces the bignefs of a mufhroom, but leave on a fhort ftalk with the head •, take fome white wine vinegar, into a quart of vinegar put fix pennyworth of cochineal beat well, alfo a little Jamaica and whole pepper, , and a little fait, boil them in vinegar, pour it ovei the collifiower hot, and let it hand two or three days clofe covered up 5 you may fcald it once in three days whilft it be red, when it is red, take if ! out of pickle, and wadi the cochineal off in the 1 pickle, fo flrain it through a hair-fieve, and let it h tfand a little to fettle, then put it to your colliflow- ; er again, and tie it up for ufe ; the longer it lies in' v the pickle the redder it will be-( *57 ) 4iy* To pickle Walnuts white. Take walnuts when they are at full growth an* can thruft a pin through them, the larged fort you can get, pare them, and cut a bit off one end whilft you fee the white, fo you ijiuft pare off all the green (if you cut thro* the white to the kernel they will be (potted) and put them in water as you pare them ; you mud boil them in fait and water as you do mufhrooms, they will take no more'boil- ing than a mufhroom ; when they are boiled lay them on a dry cloth to drain out the water, then put them into a pot, and put to them as much dif- till’d vinegar as will cover them, let them lie tw« or three days 5 then take a little more vinegar, put to it a few blades of mace, a little white pepper and fait, boil them together, when it is cold take the walnut out of the other pickle and put them into that, let them lie two or three days, pour it from them, give it another boil and (kirn it, when it is cold put to it your walnuts again, put them into a bottle, and put over them a little fweet oil, cork them up, and fet them in a cool place ; if your vinegar be good they will keep as long as the mulhrooms. 418. To pickle Barberries. Take barberries when full ripe, put them int* a pot, boil a drong fait and water, then pour it on them boiling hot. 419. To make Barley-Sugar. Boil barley in water, drain it through a hair- fievt, then put the deco£tion into clarified fugar brought to a candy-height, or the lad degree of boiling, then take it off the (jre, and let the boil- in feitle, then pour it upon a marble done rubbed with the oil vf olives, when it cools and begins to O( *5* ) grow hard, cut it in pieces, and rub it into length? as you pleafe. 420. To pickle Purslain. Take the thickeft ftalks of purflain, lay them in fait and water fix weeks, then take them out, put them into boiling water, and cover them well ; let them hang over a flow fire till they be very green, when they are cold put them into a pot, and cover them well with beer vinegar, and keep them covered c'lofe. 421. To make Punch another way. Take a quart or two of fherbet before you put in your brandy, and the whites of four or five eggs, beat them very well, and fet it over the fire, let it have a boil, then put it into a jelly bag, fo mix the reft of your acid and brandy together (the quantity you defign to make) heat it and run it all through your jelly bag, change it in the running off whilft it looks fine 5 let the peel of one or two lemons lie in the bag i you may make it the day before you ufe it, and bottle it. 422. To make new College Puddings. Grate an old penny loaf, put to it alike quantity of fuet fhred, a nutmeg grated, a little fait and fome currants, then beat fome eggs in a little lack and fugar, mix all together, and knead it asftiff as for manchet, and make it up in the form and fize of a turkey’s egg, but a little flatter ; take a pound of butter, put it in a clifh or ftew-pan, and fet it over a clear fire in a chafing-dilh, and rub your butter about the difti till it is melted, then put your pud- dings in, and cover the difli, but often turn your puddings till they are brown alike, and when they are enough grate fome fugar over them, and ferveO 2 ( *59 ) them up hot. For a fide-difh you mud let the pafte lie for a quarter of an hour before you make up your puddings. 423. To make a Cuftard Pudding. Take a pint of cream, mix with it fix eggs, well beat, two fpoonfuls of flour, half a nutmeg grated, a little fait and fugar to your tafle ; butter your cloth, put it in when the pan boils, boil it juft half an hour, and melt butter for the faitce. 424. To make fryed Toasts.- Chip a manchet very well, and cut it round ways in toafts, then take cream and eight eggs feafoned with fack, fugar, and nutmeg, and let thofe toads fteep in it about an hour, then fry them in fvveet butter, ferve them up with plain melted butter, or with butter, fack and fugar as you pleafe. 425. To make Sauce for Fifh or Flefh. Take a quart of vinegar or alegar, put it into a jug, then take Jamaica pepper whole, fome diced ginger and mace ; a few cloves, fome lemon peel, fiorfe-radifh diced, fweet herbs, fix dialots peeled, eight anchovies, and two or three fpoonfuls of Ihred capers, put all thofe in a linen bag, and put the bag into your alegar or vinegar, flop the jug clofe, and keep it for ufe. A fpoonful cold is an addition to faucc,for either fidi or flefh. 426. To make a favoury Difh of Veal. Cut large collops of a leg of veal, fpread them abroad on a drefler, hack them with the back of a knife, and dip them in the yolks of eggs, feafon them with nutmeg, mace, pepper, and Fait, then make forc’d-mcat with fome of your veal, beef' fuct, oyfters chopp’d, and fweet herbs fhred fine ;( i6° ) and the above fpice, ftrew all thefe over your col- lops, roll and tie them up, put them on lkewers, tie them to a fpit and roalt them ; and to the reft of your forc’d meat add the yolk of an egg or two, and make it up in balls and fry them, put them in a difh with your meat when roafted, put a little wa- ter in the difh under them, and when they are enough put to it an anchovy, a litrie gravy, a fpoon- fui of white wine, and thicken it up with a little flour and butter, fo fry your balls and lie round the difh and ferve it up. This is proper for a fide-difh either at noon or night. 427. To make French Bread. Take half a peck of fine flour, the yolks of fix eggs and four whites, a little fait, a pint of ale yeaft, and as much new milk made warm as will make a thin light pafte, ftir it about with your hand, but be fure yoirdon’t knead t em ; have rea- dy fix wooden quarts or pint difhes, fill them with the pafte (not over full) let them ftund a quarter of an hour to rife, then turn them out into the oven, and when they are baked rafp them. The oven muft be quick 428. To make Ginger-Bread another way. Take three pounds of fine flour, aud the rind of a letnon dried and beaten to powder, Half a pound of fugar, or more if you like it, a little butter, and an ounce and a half of bea'eu ginger, mix all thefe together, and wet it pretty ftiif with nothing but treacle ; make it into rolls or cakes which you • pleafc ; if you pleafe you may add candv’d orange peel and citron ; bi tter your paper to bake it on, and let it be baked hard. 429. To make Quince Cream. Take quinces when they are full ripe, cut them in quarters, fcald them till they be foft, pare them*C l6< ) and mafh the clear part of them, and the pulp, and put it thro’ a fieve, take an equal weight of quince and double refin’d fugar, beaten and fifted, and the whites of eggs beat till it is as white as fnow, then put it into di(hes. You may do apple cream the fame way. 430. To make Cream of any preferved Fruit. Take half a pound of the pulp of any preferved fruit, put it in a large pan, put to it the whites of two or three eggs, beat them well together for an hour, then with a fpoon take it off, and lay it heap- ed up high on the dilh and falver without cream, or put it in the middle baton. Rafpberries will not do this way. 431. To dry Pears or Pippins without Sugar. Take pears or apples and wipe them clean, take a bodkin and run it in at the head, and out at the ftalk, put them in a flat earthen pot and bake them, but not too much ; you mull put a quart of flrong new ale to half a peck of'pears, tie twice papers over the pots that they are baked in, let them (land till cold, then drain them, fqueexe the pears flat, and the apples, the eye to the (talk, and lay them on fleves with wide holes to dry, either in a ftovc or an oven not too hot. 432. To preferve Mulberries whole. Set fome mulberries over the fire in the fkillet or prelervmg pan, draw from them a pint of juice when it is drain’d; then take three pounds of fu- gar beaten very fine, wet the fugar with the pint of juice, boil up your fugar and fkim it, put in two pounds of ripe mulbc.ries, and let them fland in. the fyrup till they are thoroughly warm, then fet them on the fire, and let them boil very gently ; do them but half enough, fo put them by iu the fyrup till next day, then bull them gently again •, when( ) tke fyrup is pretty thick and will {land in round drops when it is cold, they are enough, fo put all in a gaily pot for ufe. 433. To make Orange Cakes. Cut your oranges, pick ou- the meat and juice free from the firings and feeds, fet it by, then boil it, and fhift the water till your peels are tender, dry them with a cloth, mince them fmall, and put them to the juice ; to a pound of that weigh a pound and a half of double refin’d fugar ; dip your lumps pf fugar in water, and boil it to a can- dy-height, take it offthe fire and put in your juice and peel, fiir it u'ell, when it is almolt cold put it into a bafon, and fet it in a flove, then lay it thin on earthen plates to dry, and as it candies, fafhion it with a knife, and by them on glalfes ; when your plate is empty, put more out of your bafon. 434. To dry Apricots like Prnnellos. Take a pound of apricots before they be full ripe, cut them in halves or quarters, let them boil till they be very tender in a thin fyrup, and let them {land a day or two in the.(love, then take them out of the fyrup, lav them to dry till thev be as dry as prunellos, then box them, if you pleafe \ou may pare them. You may make your fyrup red with the juice of red plumbs. 435. To preferve green white Plumbs. Take a pound of white plumbs, take three quar- ters of a pound of double refin’d fugar in lumps, dip your fugar.in water, boil andfkim it very well, flit your plumbs down the feam, and pm them into the fyrup with the flit downwards let them Ifew over the fire a quarter of an hour, fkim rhem very well, then take them off, and hen cold cover »hem up ; turn them in the fyrup two or three times-( >°3 ) a day for four or five days, then put them into pot£ and keep them for ufe. 436. To make Gooseberry Wine another way. Take goofeb rries when they are full ripe, pick and beat them in a marble mortar} to every quart of berries put a quart ot water, put them into a tub, and let them Hand all night, then 11 rain them n rough a hair-fieve, and prefs them very well with your hand , to every gaiion of juice put thiee pounds of fourpenny fugar, when vour ft gar is melted put it into the barrel, and ;o as many gallons of juice as you have, take as manv poum's of Malaga rat- lins, chop th- m in a bowl, and pm them in the bar- rel with the wine, he fore let not your bairel be over full, fo clofe it up, let it hand three months in the barrel, and when it is fine buttle it, but not before. 437. To pickle Nasturtium Buds. Gather your little nobs quickly after the bloflbma- are off put them in cold wa'er and fait three days, lhittin^ them once a day } thin make a pickle lor them (but don’t boil them at all) of fome white wine, and fome white wine vin gar, fhalot, horfe- radiih, whole pepper and fait, and a blade or two of mace ; then put in your feeds, and flop ihem clofe up. They are to be eaten as capers. 438. To make Elder-Flower vVine. Take three or four handfuls of dried elder flow- ers, and ten gallons of fpring watei, boil the wa- ter, and pour it fealditig hot upon the flowers, the next day put to every gulf>11 of water five pounds of Malaga ruifins, the Hulks being fiill picked 1 fly but not waffled, chop them g dlv with a> chopping knife, then pm th m into ynui boiled waier, itir the water, ratlins and flowers well together, andf i64 ) efo fo twice a dav for twelve days, then prefs out the juice clear as long as you can get any liauor ; put it into a barrel tit for it, flop it up two or three days till it works, and in a few days ft p it up clofe, and let it ftand two or three months, then bottle it. 439. To make Pearl Barley Pudding. T.'ke half a pound of pearl barley, cree it in Toft water, and fhift it once or twice in the boiling till it be foft ; take five eggs, put to them a pint of good cream and half a pound of powder fugar, grate in half a nutmeg, a little fait, a fpoonful or two of rofe-water, and half a pound of clarified butter; when your barley i« co'd mix them all together, fo fo_.ke it with a puff pafte round the difti edge. Serve it up with a little rofe-water, fugar, and butter for your fauce. 440 To make Goofeberry Vinegar another way. Take goofeberries when they are full ripe, bruife them in-a marble mortar or wooden bowl, and to every unheap’d half peck of berries take a gallon of water, put it to them in the barrel, let it ftand in a warm place for tw’o weeks, put a paper on the top of your barrel, then draw it off, vvalh out the barrel, put it in again, and to every gallon add a pound of coarfe fugar ; fet it in a warm place by the fire, and let it ftand till Chriftmas. 441. To preferve Apricots green. Take apricots when they are young and tender, coddle them a li’tie, rub them with a coarfe cloth to take off the fkin, and throw them into water as you do them, and put them in the fame water they were coddled in, cover them wfith vine leaves, a white pap'-r, nr fomething more at the top, the cloferyou keep them the fooner they are green ; be( i65 ) fare you don’t let them boil ; when they are green weigh them, and to every pound of apricots take a pound of loaf fugar, put it into a pan, and to every pound of fugar a jill of water, boil your fugar and water a little and fkmi it, then put in your apri- cot.', let them boil together till vour apricots look clear, and your fvrup t ick, fk'.m it all the time it is boiling, and put them into a pot covered with a paper dipp’d in brandy. 442. To make Orange Chips another way. Pare vour oranges, not over thin but narrow, jj throw the rinds into lair water as vou pare them off, then boil them therein very lafl till they be tender, tilling up the pan with boiling water as it wades away, then make a thin lyrup ^ith part of the water tliev afe boiled in, put in the riruis, and jnll let them boil, then take .hem off, and lei them lie in the fvrup three or four days, then boil triem again t i 11 vou find the (viup begin to draw between your fingers, take them off from the fire, and let thorn drain thro’ your cullendor, lake out but a few at a lime, becaufe if they cool too iad it will be difficult to got tin Iviup bom them, which mud he done by palling every piece of peel through your fingeis, an ' I'mg iliem fuigh on a fieve with the rind uppermod, the (ieve nav b- fet in a Hove, or before the fire ; but in furnmer the fun is hot enough to drv uem. 1 uree quarters of a pound of fugar will make fyrup to eOti.e peels of twenty-five oranges. 443. I’o n 1 ake Mulhroom Powder. Take about ha'f a peck of laige .nitons or flaps, clean them and fet them in an earthen dtlh or drip- ping pan o; e by one, let them Hand in a How overt to dry whilft'they will beat to powder, and when they are powdered fift them through a fieve j take( i66 ) half a quarter of an ounce of mace, and nutmeg, beat them very fine, and mix them with yourmuffi- room powder, then put it into a bottle, and it will be fit for ufc. You muff not wafh your mufhrooms. 444. To preferve Apricots anotherway. Take your apricots before they are full ripe, pare them and ftone them, and to every pound of apri- cots take a pound of lump loaf f igar, put it into your pan with as much water as will wet it ; to four pounds of fugar take the whites of two eggs beat them well to a froth, mix them well with your fugar whilfl it be cold, then fet it over the fire and let it have a boil, take it off theft e, and put in a fpoonful or two of water, then take off the fkim, and do fo three or four times whilfl an> fkim rifes; put in your apricots, and let them have a quick boil over the fire ; take them off and turn them over, let them Hand a little while covered, and then fet them on again, let them have another boil and fkim them, then take them out one by one ; fet on your fyrup again to boil down, and fkim it, put in your apricots again, and let them boil whilfl they look clear, put them in pots, when they arc cold cover them over with a paper dipt in brandy, and tie another paper at the top, fet them in a cool place and keep them for ufe. 445. To pickle Mushrooms anotherway. When you have cleaned vour mufhrooms put them into a pot, throw over them a handful of fait, flop them very clofe with a cloth, fet them in a pan of water to boil about an hour, give them a drake now and then in the boiling, then take them out and drain the liquor from them, wipe them dry with a cloth, and put them up either in white wind-( *67 ) vinegar or diftill’d vinegar, with fpices, and put a. little oil on the top. They don’t look fo white this way, but they have more the taffe of mufhrooms. 446. How to fry Mushrooms. Take the largeftand frefheft flaps you can get, fkin them and take out the gills, boil them in a little fait and water, then wipe them dry with a cloth ; take two eggs and beat them very well, half a fpoonful of wheat flour, and a little pepper and fait, then dip in your mufhrooms and fry them in butter. They are proper to lie about flew'd mufhrooms ©rany made difh. 447. How to make an Ale Posset. Take a quart of good milk, fet it on the fire to boil, put in a handful or two of bread crumbs, grate in a little nutmeg, and Iweeten it to your tafle ; take three jills of ale and give it a boil; take the yolks of four eggs, beaf them very well ; put to them a little of your ale, and mix all your ale and eggs together ; then fet it on the fire to heat, keep ffirring it all the time, but don’t let it boil, if you do it will curdle ; then put it into your difh, heat the milk and put it in by degrees; fo ferve it up. You may make it of any fort of made wine; make it half an hour before you ufe it, and keep it hot before the fire. 448. To make Minc’d PlESanotber way. Take half a pound of Jordan almonds, blanch and beat them with a little rofe-water, but not over fmall; take a pound of heel fuet Ihred very fine, halt a pound of apples fhred fmall, a pound of currants well cleaned, hall a pound of powder fu- gar, a little mace lhied fine, about a quarter of a( *68 ) pound of candy’d orange cut in fmall pieces, a fpoonful or two of brandy, and a little lalt, fo miK them well together, and bake it in a puff pafte. 449. To make Sack Posset another way. Take a quart of good cream, and boil it with a blade or two ofmace, put in about a quarter of a pound of fine powder fugar ; take a pint of fack or better, fet it over the fire to heat, but don’t let it boil, then grate in a little nutmeg, and about a quarter of a pound of powder fugar ; take nine eggs (leave out fix of the whites and Arams) beat ihern very well, then put to them a littie of your fack, mix the fack and eggs very well together, then put to them the left of your fack, ftir it all the time you are pouring it in, fet it over a flow fire to thicken, and ftir it till it be as'hick as cuf- tard ; (be fure you don’t let it bod, it you do it will curdle) then p<ur it into your difh or bafon ; take your cram boiling hot, and pour it to ioui fack by degiees. During it all the time you are pouring it in, then fet it on a hot hearth ftone, von null make it half an hour before you ufe it ; before you fet it on the hearth cover it clofe with pewter difh. To make a Froth for the Poffet. Take a pint of the thiikeft cream you can get, and beat the whites of two eggs erv w 11, put them to your cream, and fweeten it to vou ?afte, whifk them very well together, take off the t oth by fpoonfuls, and he it in a fievc todiain; wnen you cliHi up the poffet lie the froth ver it. 450. To dry Cherries another wav. Take cherries when lull ripe. Hone them and break ’em as little as sou can in <he ftonmg . fn fix pounds of cherries u*.e three pounos oi loaf( *69 ) fugar, beat it, lie one part of your fugar under your cherries, and the other at the top, let them ftand all night, then put them into your pan, and boil them pretty quick whilft your cherries change and look clear, then let them ftand in the fyrup alt night, pour the fyrup from them, and fet them either in the fun or before the fire ; let them ftand to dry a little, then lay them on white papers one by one, let them ftand in the fun whilft they be thoroughly dry ; in the drying turn them over, then put them into a little box ; betwixt every layer of cherries lie a paper, and fo do till all are in, then lie a paper at the top, anil keep them for ufe. You rnuft not boil them over long in the fyrup, for if ii be over thick it will keep them from dry- ing •, you may boil two or three pounds more cher- ries in the fyrup after. 451. How to order Sturgeon. If your fturgeon be alive, keep it a night and a day before you ufe it; then cut off the head and tail, fplit it down the back, and cut it into as many pieces as you pleafe j fait it with bay fait and com- mon fait, as you do beef for hanging, and let it. lie 24 hours ; then tie it up very tight, and boil it in fait and water whilft it is tender ; (you muff not boil it over much) when it is boiled throw over it a little fait, and fet it by till it be cold. Take the head and fplit it in two, and tie it up very tight rp you mud boil it by itfelf, not fo much as you did the reft, but fait it after the fame manner. 452. To make the Pickle. Take a gallon of fo ft water, ami make it into a ftrong brine ; take a gallon of ftale beer, and a gallon of the bed vinegar, and let it all boil toge- ther, with a few fpices; when it is cold put in your P( *7° ) fturgeon ; you may keep it, if clofe covered, three or four months before you need to renew the pickle, 453. To make Hotch-Potch. Take five or fix pounds of f re fit beef, put it into a kettle with fix quarts of foit water, an t an onion ; fet it on a flow fire, and let it boil till your beef is almoft enough ; then put in the fcrag of a neck of mutton, and let them boil together till the broth be very good ; put in two or three handfuls of bread-' crumbs, two or three carrots and turnips cut final! (but boil the carrots in water before you put them in, elfe they will give your broth a tafle) with half a peck of fhillM peas, but take up the meat before you put them in, when you put in the peas take the other part of your mutton and cut it in chops (for it will take no more boiling titan the peas)’ and put it in with a few fweet herbs fhred very fmall, and fait to your tafle. You mull fend up the mutton chops in thedifh with the'hotch-potch. When there are no peas to be had, you may put in the heads of afpar<.gus, and if there be neither of thefe to be had, you may lhrcd in a green favoy cabbage. This is a proper difli inflead of fotip. 454. To make Minc’o Collofs. Take two or three pounds of any tender part of beef (according as you would have the difh in hig- nefs) cut it fmall as you would do minc’d tea) j take an onion, (hred it fmall, and fry it a light brown in butter feafoned with nutmeg, pepper and fait, and put the meat into your pan with your onion, and fry it a little vvhilft it be a light brown ; then pi . to it a jill of good gravy, and a fpoonful of watfnit pickle, ora little catchup; put in a few , fhred capers or mnlhrooms, thicken it i.p with a little flour and butter ; if you pleafe you may put( r7I ) in a little juice of lemon ; when you difh it up gar- nifh your difh with pickle, ami a few forc’d-meat balls. It is proper for either fide difh or top difh. 455. To make white Scotch Collops another way. Take two pounds of the folid part of a leg of veal, cut in pretty thin dices, and feafon it with a little fhred mace 2nd fait, put it into your flew- pan with a lump of butter, fet it over the fire, keep it flirring all the time, but do not let it boil ; when you are going to difh up the collops, put to them the yolks of two or three eggs, three fpoonftils of cream, a fpoonful or two of white wine, and a lit- tle j nice of lemon, fhake it over the fire whilfl it be fo thick that the fauce (licks to the meat } be furer you don’t let it boil. Garnifh your difh with lemon and fippets1, and ferve it up hot. This is proper for either fide difh or top difh, noorpor night. 456. To make Vinegar another way. Take as many gallons of water as you pleafe, and to every gallon of water put in a pound of four- penny fiigar, boil it for half an hour and fkiin it all the time ; when it is about blood warm put to it three or four fpoonfu’s of light yeafl, let it work in the tub a night and a day, put it into yourveffel, clofe up the top with a paper, and fet it as near the fire as you have convenience, and in two or three days it will be good vinegar. 457. To preferve Quinces another way. Take quinces, pare and put them into water, fove all the parings and cores, let ’em lie in the water with the quinces, fet them over the fire with the parings and cores to coddle, cover them clofc up at the too with the parings, and lie over them. P 2( *72 ) either a difh-cov&r or pewter diih, and cover them clofe ; iet them hang over a very flow fire whilft they be tender ; but don’t let them boil ; when they are foft take them out of the water, and weigh your quinces, and to every pound put a pint of the fame water they were coddled in (when drained) and a pound of fugar ; put them into a pot or pew- ter flaggon, the pewter makes them a much better colour; clofe them up with a little coarfe pafle, and fet them in a bread oven all night ; if the fyrup be too thin boil it down, put it to your quinces and keep it for ufe. You may either do it with pow der fugar or loaf fugar. 4.58. To make Almond Cheesecakes another way. Take the peel of two or three lemon3 pared thick, boil them pretty foft, and change the water two or three times in the boiling ; when they are boiled beat them very fine with a little loaf fugar, then take eight eggs (leaving out fix of the whites) half a pound of loaf or powder fugar, beat the eggs and fugar for half an hour, or better ; take a quar- ter of a pound of the beft almonds, blanch and beat them with three or four fpoonfuls of rofe-water, but not over ftnall ; take ten ounces of frefh butter, melt it without water, and clear off from it the butter-milk, then mix them all together very well, and bake them in a flow oven in a puff pafle ; before you put them into the tins, put in the juice of half a lemon. When you put them in the oven grate over them a little loaf fugar. You may make them without almonds, if you pleafe. You may make a pudding of the fame, only leave out the almonds. FINIS.Englifh Houfewifery Improved ; * OR, A SUPPLEMENT T O MOXON’s COOKERY. CONTAINING Upwards of SIXTY Modern and Valuable RECEIPTS,, In Paltry, Preferving, Made Diflies, Made Wines, See. Collected by a Perfon of Judgmcnl. WITH CORRECTIONS and ADDITIONS. THE SEVENTH EDITION. Hontion: VUEtlSHE® POR Till BOOKSELLERS; AND PRINTED ANn SOU) BY H, AND O. MOZLEY, MARKET-PLACE, GA1N3JIROUOU. l800.( 2 ) A SUPPLEMENT TO MOXON’s COOKERY. AKE the caul of a leg of veal, lay it into a. round pot ; put a layer of the flitch part of bacon at the bottom, then a layer of forc’d meat, and a layer of the leg part of veal cut as for collops, ’till the pot is filled up 3 which done, take the part of the caul that lies over the edge of the pot, clofe it up, tie a paper over, and fend it to the oven ; when baked, turn it out into your difh. Sauce.—A good light-brown gravy, with a few tnulhrooms, morels, or truffles: ferve it up hot. 2. The fine Brown Jelly. Boil four calf’s feet in fix quarts of water, till it is reduced to three pints, take off the feet and 1. A Granade( 3 ) let the (lock cool, then rnelt it, and have ready i* a ftew-pan a fpoonful of butter hot, add to it a fpoonful of fine flour, Air it with a wood fpocn over a ftove fire, till it is very brown, but not t burnt, then put the jelly out and let it boil ; when ' cold take off the fat, melt the jelly again, and put to it half a pint of red port, the juice and peel of half a lemon, white pepper, mace, a little Jamaica pepper, and a little fait ; then have ready the whites of four eggs, well froth’d, and put them into the jelly (take care the jelly be not too hot when the whites arc put in) ftir it well together, and boil it over a quick fire one minute, run it thro’ a flannel bag and turn it back till it be clear, and what form you would have it, have that ready, pour a little of the jelly in the bottom, it will foon flarken ; then place what you pleafe in it, either pigeon or fmall chicken, fweet bread larded, or pickled fmelt or trout, place them in order, and pour on the remainder of the jelly. You may fend it up in this form, or turn it into another difh, with holding it over hot water } but not till it is thoroughly hardened. 3. To make a Melon,. Make the leaned forc’d-meat that you can, green it as near the colour of melon as poffible with the juice of fptnage, as little of the juice as you can j put feveral herbs in it, efpecially pnrfley fhred fine, for that will help to green ;t ; roll it an inch and,’a half thick, lay one half in a large melon mould, well buttered and floured, with the other half the full fizeof the mould, tides and all ; then put into it as many dewed oyiters a< will near fill it with liquor fufficient to keep them moill, and clofe the forced- meat well together ; clofe the melon and boil it till you think it is enough *, then make a fmall hole (if poffible not to be perceived) pour in a little more of( 4 ) the liquor that the oyfters were flewed in hot, and ferve it up with hot fauce in the di(h. It mult be boiled in a cloth and is either for a firft or fccond. courfe. 4. Hot Chicken Pie. Order the chickens as for fricafiee, and form the pie deep, lay in the bottom a mince meat made of the chifckens’ livers, ham, parlley and yolks of eggs, feafon with white pepper, mace, and a little fait; moiften with butter, then lay the chicken above the minc’d meat, and a little more butter; cover the pie and bake it two hours ; when baked take off the fat, and add to it white gravy, with a little juice of lemon. Serve this up hot. 5. Sheeps’Rumps with Rice. Stew the rumps very tender, then take them out to cool, dip them in eggs and bread-crumbs, and fry them a light brown ; have ready half a pound of rice, well walhed and picked, and half a pound of butter; let it flew ten minutes in a little pot ; then add a pint of good gravy 10 the rice and butter, and let it ilew half an hour longer ; have ready fix onions boiled very tender, and fix yolks of boiled eggs, Rick them with cloves ; then place the fhcep rumps on the di111, and put round them the rice as neatly as you cqn ; place the onions and eggs over the rice, lo ferve it up hot. 6. Sheep Tongues broiled. The tongues being boil’d, put a lump of butter in a (lew-pan, with parlley and green onions cut •final] ; then fplit the tongues, but do not part them, and put them in the pan ; feafon them with pep- per, herbs, mace, and nutmeg; fet them a mo- ment on the fire and lire w crumbs of bread on them;( 5 ) let them be broiled and difli them up, with a high gravy fauce. 7. To lard Oysters. Make a ftrong eflence of ham and veal, with a little mace ; then lard the large oyfters with a fine larding pin ; put them, with as much eflence as will cover them, into a ftew-pan ; let them flew an hour or more, over a flow fire. They are ufed for gamilhing, but when you make a dilh ot them, fqueeze in a Seville orange. 8. Veal Coujley. Take a little lean bacon and veal, onion, and the yellow part of a carrot, put it into a Aew-pan ; fet it over a flow fire, and let it fimmer till the gravy is quite brown, then put in fmall gravy, or boiling water ; boil it a quarter of an hour, and then it is ready for ufe. I ake two necks of mut- ton, bone them, lard one with bacon, the other with parfley ; when larded put a little couley over a flow flove, with a (lice of lemon whilfl; the mut- ton is fet, then fkewer it up like a .couple of rab- bits, put it on the fpit and roaft it as you would any other mutton then ferve it up with ragoo’d cucumbers. This will do for firil courfe, bottom difh. 9. The Mock Turtle. Take a fine large calf’s head, cleans’d well and ftew’d very tender, a leg of veal twelve pounds vi'eight, leave out three pounds of the fincflpart of it ; then take three fine large fowls (bone them, but leave the meat as whole as pofiiblc) and four pounds of the fined: ham fliced ; tlien boil the veal, fowls bones, and the ham in lix quarts of water, till it is reduced to two quarts, put in the fowl and the three pounds of veal, and let them boil half ao( 6 ) hour 5 take it off the fire and drain the gravy from it ; add to the gravy three pints of the bed white wine, boil it up and thicken it $ then put in the calf’s head ; have in readinefs twelve large forc'd- meat balls, as large as an egg, and twelve yolks of eggs boil’d hard. Difh it up hot in a terreen. 10. TodrefsOx Lips. Take three or four ox lips, boil them as tender as poffible, drefs them clean the day before they are ufed ; then make a rich forc’d meat of chicken or half-roaffed rabbits, and ffuff the lips with it ; they will naturally turn round ; tie ’em up with pack thread and put them into gravy to dew ; they mud dew while the forc’d meat be enough. Serve them up with truffles, morels, mufhrooms, cockf- combs, forc’d-meat balls, and a little lemon to your tadc. This is a top difh for fecond, or fide difh, for fird courfe. 11. To make Povj-rade. Take a pint of good gravy, half a jill of elder vinegar, fix fhalots, a little pepper and fait, boil all thele together a few minutes and drain it off. This is a proper fauce for turkey, or any other fort of white fowls. 12. To pot Partridg ES. Take the partridges and feafon them well with mr.ee, fait and a little pepper; lie ’em in the pot with the breads downwards, to every partridge put three quarters of a pound of butter, fend them to the oven ; w hen baked drain them from the butter and gravy, and add a little more feafoning, then put them clofe in the pot with the breads upwards, and when cold, cover them well with the butter, fljit the pot to the number of the partridges to have( 7 ) h full. You may pot any fort of moor-game the. fame way. 13 To pot Partridges another way. Put a little thyme and pailley in the infide of the partridges, ft* a foil them with mace, pepper and fait ; put them in the pot, and cover them with butter ; when baked, take out the partridges, and pick all the meat from the bones, tie the meat in a P°t( without beating) fkim all the butter from the gravy, and cover the pot well with the butter. 14. To pot Char. Scrape and cut them, wafh and dry them clean, feafonthem with pepper, fait, mace, and nutmeg j let the two laft feafonings be higher than the other j put a little butter at the bottom of the pot ; then lie in the filh, and put butter at the top, three pounds of butter to four pounds of char ; when they are baked (before they are cold) pour off the gravy and butter, put two or three Ipconluls of butter into the pot you keep them in, then lie in the filh ; fkim the butter clean from the gravy, and put the butter over the hill, fo keep it for ufe. 15 Salmon en Maigre. Cut fome flices of freih falmon the thicknefs of your-thumb, put them in a Hew pan with a little onion, white pepper and mace, and a bunch of fwett herb.-,, pouroverit hall a pint of w'h te wine, half a jill of water, and b ur ounces of butter (to a pound and half of falmon) covet the ftew-pan dole ; and (lew it half an hour; then take out the falmon and place it on the >tilh ; (train off the liquor, and have ready craw-hill, pick’d from the fhell, or lobfter cut in ltnall pieces ; pound the fhclls of theCraw-fifh, or the feeds of the loblfer, and give it % turn in the liquor; thicken it and ferve it up hot with the craw-filh, or lobfter, over the falmon. Trouts may be done the fame way, only cut off their heads. 16. Lobster A’L’Italienne. Cut the tail of the loblfer in fquare pieces, take the meat out of the claws, bruife the red part of the loblfer very fine, (fir it in a pan with a little but- ter, put fome gravy to it ; drain it off while hot, then put in the loblfer with a little fait ; make it hot, and fend it up with fippets round your dilh. 17. To do Chickens or any Fowls Feet. Scald the feet till the {kin will come off, then cut off the nails ; flew them in a pot clofe cover’d fet in water, and fome pieces of fat meat till they are very tender ; when you fet them on the fire, put to them fome whole pepper, onions, fait and fome fweet herbs \ when they are taken out, wet them over with the yolk of an egg, and dredge them well with bread-crumbs ; fo fry them crifp. 18. Larks done in Jelly. Boil a knuckle of veal in a gallon of water till it is reduced to three pints (it mull not be covered but done over a clear fire) (kirn it well and clarify it, then feafonthe larks with pepper and fait, put them in a pot with butter, and fend them to the oven ; when baked lake them out of the butter whilfl hot, take the jelly and feafon it to your taite with pep- per and fait ; then put the jelly and larks into a pan together, and give them a feald over the fire ; fo lie them in pots and cover them well with jelly. When you would ufe them, turn them out of the pots, and ferve them up.C 9 ) 19. The fine Catchup. Take three quarts of red port, a pint of vinegar, one pound of anchovies unwaihed, pickle and all together, half an ounce of mace, ten cloves, eight races of ginger, one fpoonful of black pepper, eight ounces of horfe-radifh, half a lemon-peel, a bunch of winter favory, and lour fhalots ; flew thefe in a pot, within a kettle of water, one full hour, then flrain it thro’ a clofe fieve, and when it is cold bottle it ; (hake it well before you bottle it, that the fediment may mix. You may ftew all the ingredients over again in a quart of wine for prefent ufe. 20. Walnut Catchup. Take the walnuts .when they are ready for pick- ling, beat them in a mortar, and ftrainthejui.ee thro’ a flannel bag ; put to a quart of juice a jill of white wine, a jill of vinegar, twelve fhalots fliced, a quarter of an ounce of mace, two nutmegs llicea, one ounce ot black pepper, twenty-four cloves, antithepeels of twoSevilleoranges pared fo thin that; no white appears, boil it over a How lire very well, 3nd fkim it as it boils ; let it Hand a week or ten days cover’d very dole, then pour it thro" the bag. and bottle it. 21. A very good White or Almond Soup. Take veal, low!, or any white meat, boiled down with a little mace (or other f.uce to your taftc) let thefe boil to m dh, then Itrain ofT the gravy ; take fome of the white flelhy part of the meat and rub it thro a^cullender ; have readv two ounces of almonds beat fine,’ rub thefe thro’ the cullender, then put all into the gravy, let it on the fire to thicken a little, and ftir in it two or three fpoon- fuis of cream, and a little butter work’d in flour, then have ready a French roll crifo for th • mid ib ' O( 10 ) and flips of bread cut long like Savoy bifcuits; Serve it up hot. 22. Almond Pudding. Take one pound of almonds, blanch’d and beat fine, one pint of cream, the yolks of twelve eggs, two ounces of grated bread, half a pound of fuet, marrow, or melted butter, three quarters of a pound of fine fugar, a little lemon peel and cinna- mon ; bake it in a flow oven, in a dflh, or little tins. The above are very good put in fkins. 23. Almond Puddi NG another way. Boil a quart of cream, when cold, mix in the whites of ieven eggs well beat ; blanch five ounces of almonds, beat them with role or orangc-flotver water, mix in the eggs and cream ; Iweeten it to yonr tafte with fine powder fugar, then mix in a little citron or orarge, put a thin pafle at the bot- tom, and a thicker round the edge of the difh. Bake it in a flow oven. Sauce. Wine and fugar. 24. Almond Cheesecakes another way. Six ounces of almonds, blanched and beat with rofe water ; fix ouncts of butter beat to cream ; half a pound ol fine fugar ; fix eggs well beat, and a little mace. Bake thele in little tins, and cold butter palte. 25. A Lemon Pudding another way. 'Lake a quarter of a pound of almonds, three quarters of a pound of fugar, beat and karc'd, half a pout d of butter, beat the almonds with a lit- tle rofe-water, grate the rinds of two lemons, beat eleven eggs, leave out two whites, melt the butter and ftir it in ; when the oven is read) mix all thele well.-together with the juice ol one or two lemonsf “ ) to your tafte ; put a thin paffe at the bottom, and a thicker round the edge ot the difh. Sauce. Wine and fugar. 26. Potatoe Pudding another way. Take three quarters of a pound of potatoes when boil’d and peel’d, beat them in a mortar with a quarter of a pound of fuet or butter (if butter, melt it)\a quarter of a pound of powder fugar, five eggs well be^t, a pint of good milk, one fpoonful of flour, a little mace or cinnamon, and three fpoon- fuls of wine or biandy; mix. all thefe well toge- ther, and bake it in a pretty quick oven. Sauce. Wine and butter. 27. Carrot Pudding another way. T<=ke half a pound of carrots, when boiled and peeled, beat them in a mortar, two ounces of grated bread, a pint of cream, half a pound of fuet or marrow,, a glafs of fack, a little cinnamon, half a pound of fugar, fix eggs well beat, leave out three of the whites, and a quarter of a pound of macaroons ; mix all well together ; puff-pafte round the difh edge. Sauce. Wine and fugar. 28. White Pott another way. A layer of white bread cut thin at ihe bottom of the difh, a layer of apples cut thin, a layer ot mar- row or fuet, currants, raifins, fugar and nutmeg, then the bread, and fo on a' above, till the diih is- failed up ; beat four eggs, and mix them with a pint ot good milk, a little fugar and nutmeg, and pour it over the top. This fhould be made three or four hours before it is baked. Sauce. Wine and butter. 29. Hunting Pudding another way. Take a pound of grated bread, a pound of fuet and a pound of currants, eight eggs, a glafs o; Q ^( 12 ) brandy, a little fugar ; and a little beat cinnamon ; mix thefe well together, and boil it two hours at- t he lea It. 30. Almond Biscuits. Blanch a pound of almonds, lie them in water for three or four hours, dry them with a cloth, and beat them fine with eight fpoonfuls ol rofe or orange-flower water ; then boil a pound of fine fu- gar to wire-height, and ffir in the almonds, mix them well over the fire j bur do not let them boil j pour them into a bafon, and beat them with a fpoon till quite cold; then beat fix whites of eggs, a quarter of a pound of {larch, beat and fearc’d, beat the eggs and ft arch together, till thick ; ft i r in the almonds, and put them in queen-cake tins, half full, duff them over with a little fearc’d fugar ; bake them in a flow oven and keep them dry. , 31. To make Almond Butter another way. Take a quart of cream, fix eggs well beat, mix them and ft rain them into a pan, keep it flirring 011 the fire whilft it be ready to boil ; then add a jack of fack, keeping it flirring till it comes to a curd ; wrap it clofe in a cloth till the whey be run from it ; then put the curd into a mortar, and beat it very fine, together with a quarter of a pound of blanch’d almonds, beaten with rofe-water, and half a pound of loaf-fugar: When all thefe are well beaten together, put it into glaffes. This will keep a fortnight. 32. Apricot JUMBALL'S. Take ripe apricots, pare, flone, and beat them fmall, then boil ’em till they are thick, and the moillttre dry’d up, then take them off the fire, and beat them up with fearc’d fugar, to make them into( *3 ) pretty ftiff pafle, roll them, without fugar, the thickncfs of a ftraw, make them up in little knots in what form you pleafe ; dry them in a ftove or in the fun. You may makejumballs of any fort of fruit the fame way. 33. Burnt Cream. Boil a flick of cinnamon in a pint of cream, four eggs well beat, leaving out two whites, boil the cream and thicken it with the eggs as for a cuftard ; then put it in your difh, and put over it half a pound of loaf fugar beat and fearc’d ; heat a fire fhovel red hot, and hold it over the top till the fugar be brown. So fcrve it up. 34. Little Plumb Cakes. Take two pounds o^ flour dry’d, three pounds of currants well wafh’d, pick’d and dry’d, four eggs beaten with twofpoonfuls of fack, half a jack of cream, and one fpoonful of orange-flower or rofe-water ; two nutmegs grated, one pound of butter wafh’d in rofe-mater and rubbM into the flour, and one pound of loaf fugar fearc’d, mix all well together, and put in the currants ; butter the tins and bake them in a quick oven : half an hour will bake them. 35. York Ginger-Bread another way. Take two pounds and a half of Bale bread grated fine (but not dry’d^ two pounds of fine powder fu- gar, an ounce of cinnamon, halt an ounce of mace, halt an ounce of ginger, a quarter of an ounce of faunders, and a quarter of a pound of almonds ; boil the fugar, faunders, ginger, and mace in half a pint of red wine ; then put in three fpoonfuls of brandy, cinnamon, and a quarter of an ounce of cloves ; ftir in half the bread on the fire, but do not let it boil; pour it out, and work in the red of( *4 ) the bread with the almonds; then fmother it clofe half an hour ; print it with cinnamon and fugar fearc’d, and keep it dry. 36. Ginger-Bread in little Tins. To three quarters of a pound of flour, put half a pound of treacle, one pound of fugar, and a quarter of a pound of butter ; mace, cloves and nutmeg, in all a quarter of an ounce ; a little gin- ger, and a few caraway feeds ; melt the butter in a glafs ol brandy, mix altogether with one egg ; then butter the tins, and bake them in a pretty quick oven. 37. Oat-Meal Cakes. V f Take a peck of fine flour, half a pe-k of oat- meal, and mix it weli together ; put to it feven eggs well bear, three quarts of new milk, a little warm water, a pint of fack, and a pint of new yeaft ; mix all thefe well together, and let it ftand to rife ; then bake them. Butter the hone every time you lie on the cakes, and make them rather thicker titan a pan-cake. 38. Bath Cakes. Take two pounds of flour, a pound of fugar, and a pound of butter ; wafh the butter in orange-flow- er water, and drv the flour, rub the butter into the flour as for pufF-pafle, beat thtee eggs fine in three fpoonfuls of cream, and a little mace and fait, mix thefe well together with vour hand, and make them into little flat cakes; rub them over with white of egg, anil grate fugar upon them ; a quar- ter of an hour will bake them in a flow oven. 39. A rich White Plumb Cake. Take four pounds of flour drv’d, two pounds of butter, one pound and a half ol double refin d fu- gar beat and fearc’d, beat the butter to a cream,( *5 ) then put in the fugar and beat it well together; fix- teen eggs, leaving out four yolks % a pint ot new veaft ; fivejills ot good cream, and one ounce ot mace fhred ; beat the eggs well, and mix them with the butter and fugar; put the mace in the flour ; warm the cream, mix it with the yealt, and run it through a hair-fieve, mix all thefe into a palte ; then add one pound of almonds blanched and cut final], and fix pounds of currants well wafh- ed, picked and dried ; when the oven is ready, ftir in the currants, with one pound of citron, le- mon or orange, then butter the hoop and put it in. This cake will require two hours and a half bak- ing in a quick oven. 40. An Iceing for the Cake. One pound and a half of double-refined fugar, beat and fearc’d ; the whites of four eggs, the big- nels ot a walnut of gum dragon fteeped in rofc or orange-flower water ; two ounces of flarch, beat fine with a little powder blue : (which adds to the whitenefs) while the cake is baking, beat the ice- ing, and lie it on with a knife as foon as the cake is brought from the oven. 41. Lemon Brandy. Pour a gallon ot brandy into an earthen pot, put to it the yellow peel ot two dozen lemons, let it hand two days and two nights, then pour two quarts ot fpring water into a pan and diflolve in it two pounds ot refin’d Ioaf-fugar, boil it a quarter ot an hour, and put it to the brandy ; then boil and fkim three jilis ot blue milk, and mix all together, let it Hand two days more, then run it tluo’ a flan- nel hag, or a paper wiiuin a tunnel, and bottle it. 42. 1 o make Rataf IA another wav. 1 ake a hundred apricot Hones, break ’em and bruile the kernels, then put them in a quart of the( ,i6 ) belt brandy ; let them (land a fortnight ; fhakz them every day; put to them fix ounces of white fugai-candy, and let them {land a week longer ; then put the liquor thro’ a jelly bag, and bottle it for ufe. 43. Topreferve Grapes all Winter. Pull them when dry, dip the (talks about an inch in boiling water, and feal the end vith wax ; chop wheat ft’-aw and put a little at the bottom of a bar- rel then a layer of grapes, and-a layer of ftraw, until die barrel is filled up ; do not lie the bunches too near one another - flop the barrel clofe, and fet it in a dry place ; but not any way in the fun. 44. 1 o preferve Grapes another way. Take ripe "rapes and {(one ’em ; to every pound of grapes take a pound of double refined fugar ; let them Hand till the fugar is diffi-lved; boil them pretty quick till clear ; then drain out the grapes, and add hit a pound of pippin jellv, and half a pound more fugar ; boil and fkim it till it comes to a jelly ; put in the grapes to heat ; afterwards Itrain them out, and give the jelly a boil ; put it to the grapes, and ftir it till near cold, then glafs it. 4,5. Barberry Cakes. Draw off the juice as tor currant jelly, take the weight of the jelly in fugar, boil the fugar to fugar again; put in the jelly, and keep it ftirring till, the fugar is diffolved ; let it be hot, but not boil ; pour it out, and ftir it three or four times ; when it is near cold drop it on glaffes in little cakes, and fet them in the ftove. If you would have them in the form of jumhalls, boil the fugar to a high candy, but not to fugar again, and pour it on a pie plate ;( 17 ) \ when it will part from the plate cut it, and turn them into what form you pleafe. 46. Barberry Drops. When the barberries are lull ripe, pull them off the ffalk,. put them in a pot, and boil them in a pan of water till ihey are foft ; pulp them through a hair-fieve ; beat and learce ihe iugar, and mix as much of the fearc’d fugar with the pulp, as will make it of the confiftance of a light palte ; then drop them with a pen-knife on paper (glazed with a flight (tone) and fet tnem within the air ot the fire tor an hour, then take them off Lhe paper and keep them dry. 47. To candy Oranges whole another way. Take Seville oranges, pare off the rinds as thin as you cau ; tie them in a thin cloth (with a lead weight to keep the cloth down) put ’em in a lead or ciflern ot river water; let them lye five or fix days, flirring them about every day, then boil them while they are lo tender that you may put a ftraw through them } mark them at the top with a thim- ble cul it out, and take out all the iufide very care- fully, then walh the Ikms clean in warm water, and fet them to drain with the tops downwards ; fine the fugar very well, and when it is cold put in the cranges; drain the fyrup from the oranges, and boil it every day till it be very thick, then once a month ; one orange will take a pound of lugar. 48. To Candy Ginger. Take the thickcfl races of ginger, put them in an earthen pot, and cover them with river water ; put frefh water to them every day for a fortnight ; then tie the ginger in a cloth, and boil it an hour in a large pan of water ; ferape off the brown rind, and( 18 ) cut the infir’e of the races as broad and thin as you can, one pound of finger will take three pounds of loaf fugar ; heat and fearce the fugar, and put a layer of t he thin (heed _ inger, and a layer of learc’d fugar into an earthen bowl, having f gar at the top ; Air it well every other day for a fortnight, then boil it over a hole charcoal ; when it is can- dy height take it out of the pan as q n.k as you can with a fpoon, and lie it in cakes on a board ; when near cold take them off and keep them dry. 49. To preferve Wine-Sours. Take wine-fours, and loaf-fugar an equal weight, wet the fugar with water ; the white of one egg will fine four pounds ot fugar, and as the flutn rifes throw on a little water ; then take off the pan, let it Hand a little to fettle, ami fkim it; boil it again while any fkim rifes; when ;t is clear and a thick fyrup take it off and I t it Hand till near cold, then nick the plumbs down the learn, and let them have a gentle heat over the fire ; take the plumbs and fyrup and let them Hand a day or tw'O, but don’t covet them; then give ttiein another gentle heat ; let them Hand a dav longer, and heat them again ; take the plumbs out and drain them, boil the fyrup and fkim it well ; put it 011 the. wine-fours, and when cold, put them into bottles or pots, tie a bladder ck fe over the top, fo keep them for ufe. 50. Currant Jelly. Take tight pounds of ripe, pick’d fruit, put thefe into three p. unds of fugar boile d candy height, and. fo let them (itnmer till the jelly will fet ; then run it off clear through a flanucd bag, and glafs it up for ufe. This never looks blue, nor fkiins hall fa. much, as the other way.( l9 ) ,51. To preferve red or white Currants whole. Pick two pounds of currants from the llalks, then take a pound and a half of loaf fugar, and wet it in halt a pint of currant juice, put in the ber- ries, and boil them over a flow fire t 11 they arc clear ; when cold pm them in ftnall berty bottles, with a little mutton fuet over them. 52. Syrup ot Poppies. Take two pounds ol poppy flowers, two ounces ofraiftns, fhred them, and to ever) pound of pop- pies put a quail of boiling water, half an ounce of annifeeds ; let thefe (land twelve hours to mtufe, then ftrain off the liquor, ?nd put it upon the fame quantity of poppies, raifins, liquorice, and anni- feeds as before, and let this hand twelve hours to infufe, which muff be in a pitcher fct within a pot or pari of hot water ; then ftrain it, and take the weight in fugar, and boil it to a fyrup ; when it is cold bottle it. 53. To make Black Paper for drawing Patterns. T^ke a quarter of a pound of mutton fuet, and one ounce ot bees wax, melt both together, and putinas much lamp-black as will colour it dark enough, then fpread it over your paper with a rag, and hold it to the fire to make it fraooth. 54. Goofeberry Vinegar another way. To every gallon of water put fix pounds of ripe goofeberrtes ; boil the water and let it be cold, fquceze the berries, and then pour on the water ; let it Hand coveied three days pretty warm 10 work, flirring it once a day ; then drain it off, and to every fix gallons put three pounds of coat fe fugar, let it Hand till it has done wot king, then bung it up and keep it moderately warm ; m nine months it will be ready for ufe.( 20 ) 55' To make bad Ale into good ftrong Beer. Draw off the ale into a clean veffel (Tuppofe half a hogfhcad) only leave out eight or ten quarts, to which put tour pounds of good’hops, boil this near an hour; when quite cold, put the ale and hops into tiie hog (head, with eight pounds of treacle, mixed well with tour or five quarts of boiled ale ; ft r it well together, and bung it up clofe. Let it ftand fix months, then bottle it for ufe. 56. Green Gooseberry Wine. To everv quart of goofeberiies take a quart of fpring water, brtufe them in a mortar, put the wa- ter to them and let them ftancl two or three days ; ftrain it off, and to evety gallon of liquor put three pounds and a half of fugar ; pul it into a barrel, and it will of itfelf rue to a froth, which take off, and keep the barrel full; when the froth is all work- ed off, bung it up for fix weeks, then rack it off, and when the lees are clean taken out, put the wine into the fame ba re] again ; to every gallon put half a pound of fugar, made into fyrup, and when cold mix it with the wine ; to every five gal- lons, have an ounce of lfinglafs, diffolved in a lit- tle of the wine, and put in with the fvrup, fo bung it up ; when fine, you may either bottle it or draw it out of the veffel. Lifbon wine is thought the beft. This wine drinks like fack. 57. Ginger Wine. Take fourteen quarts of water, three pounds of loaf fugar, and one ounce of girtger diced thin, boil thefe together half an hour, fine it with the whites of two egys ; when new milk warm put in three le- mons, a quatt of brandy, and a white bread toaft covered on both fidcs with veaft ; put all thefe to-C -r ) gcther into a ftand, and work it one day, then tun it: It will be ready to bottle in five days, and rea- dy to drink in a week after it is bottled. 58. Cowflip Wine another Way. To five gallons of water, put two pecks of cow- flip peeps, and thirteen pounds of loat fugar ; boil thefugar and water with the rinds of two lemons half an hour, and fine it with the whites of two eggs ; when it is near cold put in the cowflips, and feton fix fpoonfuls of new yeaft:, work it two days, ftir- ring it twice a day ; when you fqueeze out the peeps to tun it, put in the juice of fix lemons, and when it has done working in the veflel, put in a quarter of an ounce of ifinglafs diffolv’d in a little of the wine till it is a jelly ; add a pint of brandy, bung it clofe up two months, then bottle it. This is right good. 59, Strong Mead another way. To thirty quarts of water, put ten quarts of ho- ney, let the water be pretty warm, then break in the honey, ftirring it till it be all diffblv’d ; boil it a full half hour, when clean lkimm’d that no more will rife, put in half an ounce of hops, pick’d clean from the ftalks ; a quarter of an ounce of ginger diced (only put in half the ginger) and boil it a quarter of an hour longer ; then lade it out into the Itand thro’ a hair-terns, and put the remainder of the ginger in, when it is cold tun it into the veflel, which muft be full, but not clay’d up till near a month : Nnake it the latter end ol Septem- ber, and keep it a year in the veflel after it is clayed up. 60. French Bread. To half a peck of flour, put a full jill of new yeaft, and a little fait, make it with new milk R( 22 ) (warmer than from the cew) firft put the flour and barm together, then pour in the milk, make it a little ftifrer than a feed-cake, dull it and your hands well with flour, pull it in little pieces, and mould it with flour very quick ; put it in thedifhes, and cover them with a warm cloth (if the weather requires it) and let them rife dill they are half up, then fet them in the oven (not in the dilhes, but turn them with the tops down upon the peel) when baked rafp them. 61. The fine Rulh Cheese. Take one quart of cream, and put to it a gallon of new milk, pretty warm, adding a good fpoonful of earning; ftir in a little fait, and fet it before the fire till it be corn’d ; then put it into a vat in the cloth ; after a day and a night turn it out of the vat into a rufh box. nine inches in length and five in breadth. The rulhes mult be walked every time the cheefe is turned. 62. To make Rafpberry Jam. Bruife a pint of rafpberries in a little currant juice, add to it one pound and a quarter of loaf fu- gar beat fine, boil it over a flow fire, llirring it till it jellies, then pour it into your pots, and when cold, put on papers dipp’d in brandy, and tie other papers over them. 63. To make Stoughton. Take four drams of cochineal beat fine, a quar- ter of an ounce of faffron, three drams of rhubarb, one ounce of gentian cut fmall, and the parings of five or fix Seville oranges ; to thefc ingredients put three pintsof brandy, let all Hand within the air of the fire three or four days ; then pour off the li- quor, and fill the bottle again with brandy, put- ting in the peel of one or two oranges: Let this iiand fix or eight days, then pour it ofi thro’ a fine( 23 ) cloth ; mix the former and this together, and it is fit for ufe. 64. To make Orange Butter. Take a quarter of an ounce of clear orange juice, and a quarter of a pint of white wine; fteep the peel of an orange in it about half an hour, take it our, and put in as much fugar as will take off the fharpnefij ; beat the yolks of fix eggs very well, mix them with it, and fet it upon the fire, ftirring it continually till it is almoft as thick as butter ; juft before you take it off ftir in the bignefs of a nut of butter. Make it the day before you ufe it, and ferveit up as other butter, 65. To make Sago Pudding another way. Take two ounces of fago, boil it pretty foft in three jills of new milk,-with a little macc O’'cinna- mon ; when it is cold put in four ounces of beef fuet, two ounces of grated bread, two fpoonfulsof brandy or wine, four ounces of fugar, and a little nutmeg, candy’d lemon, orange or citron. 66. To make Cowslip Wine another way. Take eight gallons of water, add to it twenty pounds of loaf or fine powder fugar, & the whites of five or fix eggs ; boil it half an hour, and fkim it very clean ; pour it into a tub, and when it is blood warm put in eight pecks of peeps, the parings and juice of eight lemons, and fet on fourteen fpoonfuls of new yeaft; work it four or five days, ftirring it every day, fqueeze out the peeps, tun it, and putjjin a little ifinglafs infufed in a quart of brandy, bung it up clofe three weeks •, then bottle it off; put a lump of fugar into each bottle. R 2( 24 ) 67. To make Wafer Biscuits. Take nine eggs beat, and one pound of loaf-fu- gar powder’d, beat them well together till they be very white and ft iff; add half a pound of fine flour, and a few caraway feeds, and mix all very well; drop them on papers oiled with warm butter round them ; grate a little refined fugar over them, and fet them in the oven : when they are half baked take them off the papers with a long knife, and bend them on poles which have been warmed in the oven ; fet them in the oven again, bake them pret- ty crifp, and let them ftand on the poles till they are cold, 68. To make Ginger-Bread for keeping. Take two pounds of dried flour, a pound and a half of treacle, one pound of five-penny fugar, half an ounce of race-ginger beat and fifted, a half- pennyworth" of carraway feeds, and a large glafs of brandy ; mix all well together, make it into little cakes, and bake them on a dripping-pan : half an hour will bake them in a brilk oven. Thefe will keep years. 69. To make Ginger Lozenges. Beat and fearce one ounce of race ginger put one pound of loaf-fugar in a pan, with as much water as will wet it*, when this boils mix your ginger well in it, and boil it candy height ; drop it in little cakes on a fieve, and keep them dry for ufe. 70. To make a Scalded Pudding. Take four fpoonfuls of flour, pour upon it one pint of boiling milk, llirring it all the time that you pour on the milk ; when cold beat a little fait with four eggs, mix all well together; one hour will boil it. This eats like bread pudding. "You may add fruit.( 25 ) ji. To make a Scalded Pudding another way. Beat four eggs and a little fait, mix in as much flour as the eggs will wet ■, when well beaten, pour in one pint of hot milk. One hour will boil it. This eats like cuftard. 72. To make Sausages. Take a loin of mutton, cut and fhred it final!, feafon it to your tafte with pepper, fait, a little nut- meg, and a little dried fage ; beat three eggs with a little water, and mix all well together; fo fill the fkins for ufe. 73. To make Portable Soup. Take a leg of veal and an old cock, fkin the cock, and take all the fat from that and the veal, put to them twelve or fourteen quarts of water, a very little whole white pepper and mace, but no fait ; (you mud: fkim your pot exceedingly well before you put in the fpices) let all thefe boil toge- ther till the meat is quite a mafh, the water waft- ed to about three pints or two quarts, and the li- quor exceedingly ftrong ; when you think it is enough drain it into a done bowl through a pretty fine hair-fieve, let it dand all night, then clear off all 1 he top and bottom as you do calf-foot jelly, and boil the pure part of the liquor till it be fo drong a jelly, that when it is cold, the fire will harden, and not melt it ; when you think it enough pour it into tea-cups, about two table fpoonfttls in a cup ; let it dand all night ; the next morning turn out the little cakes upon a pewter difli, and fet them be- fore the fire ; if they run yon mud boil them high- er ; if they dry they are enough : You mud keep them in a paper bag, where there is a fire, as damp will dilfolvc them. N. B. The fird boiling fhould be in an iron pot } the fecond in a clean fcoured brafs pan. K 3( 26 ) 74* To makeHafty Curds. Set on the fire one gallon of well water, and when it boils put in a little fait; in which mix well one quart of good cream, and eight eggs well beat ; (if you add a fpoonful or two of four cream, it will make them crack the fooner) let the pan (land on the fire whillt the curds rife, then put them into a cloth over a fieve, tie and hang them up. When well drained they are ready for ufe. 75. To dry Pears another way. Take florie pears and pare them, leaving the flalk on, lay them on a dripping-pan, and fet them in an oven till they are baked pretty foft; then prefs them with a fpoon, and lay them on a pew- ter di(h, grate fome loaf-fugar very thick on them, and fet them before the fire, or in the fun to dry ; turn them, and prate fugar on the other fide, and keep them in a dry place for ufe. 76. To make the Gold Water. Take two quarts of the bell: brandy, one pound of loaf-fugar, half an ounce of fpirits of faffron, half a dram of the oil of cloves, and a dram of aikermes ; put all thefe into a large bottle, lhake them well together, then take four or five leases of gold ; grind them with a little loaf-fugar, and put into it a little ambergris, hop it clofe, and fet it in a place moderately warm for three or four days, then pour off the clear into bottles, and coik them fall down ; fo keep it for ufe. 77. To make a Calf’s-Foot Pudding another way. Boil two calf’s-feet, (bred them fmall with half a pound cf beef-fuet ; take a dale penny loaf grat- ed, half a pound of currants, hall a nutmeg, a lit- tle mace, and four eggs well beaten, beat all thefe very well together, and put to them half a porin-( 27 ) ger of cream ; let it boil one hour and a half, then take it out of the cloth, and (tick in a few blanch- ed almonds. Make your fauce of thick butter, a glafs of white wine, and a little fugar. 78. To Candy Lemons or Oranges another way. Lay the oranges in clear foft water for fix days, fhifting them every day, pare or grate the outfide off very thin ; to fix (kins put a pan full of water ; let them boil till they be fo tender that a draw will go through them ; take half a pound of 1 )af-fugar, put to it as much water as will cover the fkins, give ’em a boil up, and let them lay in that five or fix days longer; then fet them on th' fire with ihe fyrup, and boil them till they be well hot through ; lay them on a fieve before the fire to dry ; cut them in two, and take carefully out the infide, without breaking the rind ; wipe them very dry, and lay them on a fieve again ; put one pound of loaf-fugar into a pan, and as much water as will juft melt the fugar ; fet it over the fire, and let it fimmer eafily till it begin to be thick ; then put in the fkins one by one, and let them fimmer till your fu- gar be thin again ; keep them dill fimmering till the fugar dicks to them, and be of a candy-height ; then take ’em out with a fork, and lay them over a fieve before the fire. Ufe double refined fugar. 79. To make Punch for keeping. Take the parings of feven lemons, and as many oranges pared thin, deep them in a quart of bran- dy clofccorked, in a large berry bottle, for twenty- four hours ; then to fix quarts of water put two{ 28 ) pounds of loaf-fugar clarified, let it boil a charter of an hour and fkim it ; let it (land till it is'cold ; ftrain the brandy from the parings, and mix it and three quarts more with the fugar and water, and add the juice of the lemons and oranges ; put it in a velTel proper for the quantity ; flop it very clofe, and in three months you may bottle it. If the le- mons are large, only ufe fix. This will keep years. 80. To Roaft a Pig. Stick your pig juft above the hreaft bone, run your knife to the heart, when it is dead, put it in cold water for a few minutes, then rub it over with a little rofin beat exceedingly fine, or its own blood, put your pig into a pail ot fcalding water half a mi- nute take it out, lav it on a clean table, pull off the hair as quick as pollible, if it does not come clean off put it in again, when you have got it all clean off w'aih it in warm water, then in two or three cold waters, for fear the rofin fhould tafte ; take c'ff the four feet at the firft joint, make a flit down the bel- ly, take out all the entrails, put the liver, heart, and fights to the pettitoes, walh it well out of cold water, dry it exceedingly well with a cloth, hang it up, and when you roaft it, put in a littie (bred fage, a tea fpoonful of black, pepper, two of fait, and a cruft of brown bread, fpit your pig, and few it up ; lay it down to a brillc clear fire, with a pig plate hung in the middle of the fire; when your pig is warm, put a lump of butter in a cloth, rub your pig often with it whilft it is mailing ; a large one will take an hour and a half: when your pig is a fine brown, and the fleam draws near the fire, take a clean cloth, rub your pig quite dry, then( 29 ) rub it well with a little cold butter, it will help to crifp it 5 then take a fharp knife, cut oft the head, and taka off the collar, then take off the ears and jaw bone, fplit the jaw in two, when you have cut the pig down the back, which mufl be done before you drq.w the fpit out, then lay your pig back to back on your difh, and the jaw on each fide, the ears on each fhoulder, and the collar at the fhoulder, and pour in your fauce, and ferve it up j garnifll with a cruft of brown bread grated. 81. To make Sauce for a Pig. Chop the brains a little, then put in a tea-cupful of white gravy with the gravy that runs out of the pig, a little bit of anchovy, mix near half a pound of butter, with as much flour as will thicken the gravy, a flice of lemon, a fpoonful of white wine, a little caper liquor and fait, ftiake it over the fire, and pour it into your dilh ; fome like currants, boil a few and fend them in a tea faucer with a glafs of currant jelly in the middle of it. 82. A fecond Way to make Pig Sauce. Cut all the outfide off a penny loaf, then cut it into very thin flices, put it into a faucepan of cold water, with an onion, a few pepper corns, and a little fait, boil it until it be a fine pulp, then beat it well, put in a quarter of a pound of butter, and two fpoonfuls of thick cream, make it hot, and put it into a bafon. 83. To drcfs a Pig’s Pettitoes. Take up the heart, liver, and lights, when they have boiled ten minutes, and fhred them pretty( 3° ) fmall, 6ut let the feet boil till they are pretty ten- der, then take them out and fplit them ; thicken your gravy with flour and butter, put in your mince- meat, a flice of lemon, a fpoonful of white wine, a little fait, and boil it a little; beat the vo'k of an egg, add to it two fpoonfuls of good cream, and a little grated nutmeg, put in your pettitoes, fhake it over the fire, but do not let it boil ; lay Tippets round your difli, pour in your mincemeat, lay the feet over them the fkin fide up, and fend them to the table. 84.. To bottle Gooseberries another way. Gather goofeberries when well grown, pick and put them into wide-neck’d bottles, then fill them up with fpring water, cork them, but not over hard, put them into a pan with cold water, and a little hay at the bottom and betwixt the bottles ; coddle them very flowly, and when near done keep look- ing at them, for if you let them boil they will break ; when enough put the corks harder in, and turn the bottle neck downward whilfl cold, then ro- fin the corks, and keep them in a cool place for ufe. 85. To make a boiled Rice Pudding. Take three ounces of rice, give it a boil in wa- ter, {train it off, put to it a pint of new milk, boil it till it is pretty thick, take it up, and put to it two ounces of frefli butter, a noggin of cream, a noggin of white wine, a quarter of a pound of white fugar, a little nutmeg, and the yolks of iix eggs— boil it one hour. 86. To make Currant Jelly another way. Strip your currants when full ripe, to each pound of currants put three quarters of a pound ol beaten fugar, fet them over a flow fire, and let them boil( 31 ) twenty minutes, ftrain it through a gauze fieve, and put it into pots for'ufe.—To each pound of fruit add a quarter of a pound of fugar, let it boil fix or eight minutes, or until the fugar is diflolved. 87. To make Minc’d Pies another way. Boil one lemon whole till foft, chop it fine, pulp and all, take half a pound of apples, and the fame quantity of beef-fuet and raifins fhred fine, half a pound of currants, and half a pound of fugar—fea- fonitwith mace, and mix the whole up with red port—when the pies are made, put in each a tea fpoonful of brandy, and a little candied orange. 88. To make Tea or Sugar Cakes. Take a piece of butter about half the fize of aa egg, melt it in an earthen difh before the fire, take one egg, beat it well and mix with the above, with a quarter of a pound of lump fugar, beat and fifted, then take as much flour as will work it to a pafie, fo that you can roll it about -h<. thicknefs of a crown piece, cut them out with a dridging-box lid, bake them on a dripping-pan well dridged with flour. They muft be pricked before they are put into the oven ; about five minutes will bake them. If you chufe you may put a fewcarraway feeds in them. 89. To make a Bachelor’s Pudding. Take four ounces of bread crumbs, four ounces of currants, four ounces of apples {bred, two ounces of fugar, three eggs, a little lemon peel and cinna- mon, if you like it; boil it three hours—double the above quantity will make a large pudding, and five hours will boil it. If you chufe you may boil it in a melon mould.( 32 )' go. How to prevent the difagreeable Tafte in Mili: and Butter, from Cows fed with Turnips. Take two ounces of fait petre, and pour one quart of boiling water upon it, when cold bottle it for ufe ; one tea cup full put into ten or twelve quarts of milk when juft milked, will prevent the tafte of turnips either in the milk or butter. THE END.A BILL of FARE FOR Every Seafon of the Year. For JANUARY. . Firjl Courfe. A T the Top Gravy Soup. Remove, Fifh. At the Bottom a Ham. In the Middle ftew’d Oydersor Brawn. For the Four Corners. A FricafTee of Rabbits, Scotch Collops, boil’d Chickens, Calf-Foot Pie, or Oyfter Loaves. Second Courje. At the Top Wild Ducks. At the Bottom a Turkev. In the Middle Jellies or Lemon PofTet. For the Four Corners. Lobfters and Tarts, Cream Curds, ftew’d Pears or preferv’d Quinces. For FEBRUARY. Firjl Courfe. At the Top a Soup, remove. At the Bottom Salmon or dew’d Bread of Veal. For the Four Corners. A Couple of Fowls with Oyfter Sauce, Pudding, Mutton Cutlets, a Fricaflee of Pigs’ Ears. SA BILL of FARE Second Courfe. At the Top Partridges. At the Bottom a Couple of Ducks. For the Four Corners. Stew’d Apples, preferv’d Quinces, Cudards, Al- mond Cheelc Cakes. In the Middle Jellies. For MARCH. Firjl Courfe. At the Top a boil’d Turkey, with Oyder Saice. At the Bottom a Couple of road Tongues or road Beef. In the Middle Pickles. Two Side-dilhes, a Pigeon Pie and a Calf-Lead Hafh. For the Four Corners. Stew’d Crab or Oyders, Hunters’ Pudding, a brown kricadee, dew’d Eels, or broil’d Whitings. Second Courfe. At the Top Woodcocks or Wild Ducks. At the Bottom Pig or Hare. In the Middle Jellies or Sweet meats. For the Four Corners. Rafpbcrry Cream, Tarts, dew’d Apples, and preferv’d Apricots. For APRIL. Firji Courfe. At the Top dew’d Fillet of Veal. At the Bottom a road Leg of Mutton. T wo Side-dilhes, Salt-Filh and BeefSteaks. In the Middle a Hunter’s Pudding. Srcoi.d Coutjc. .At the Top road Chickens and Afparagus. At the Bottom Ducks. In the Middle preferved Oranges. For the Four Corners. D.imftn Pie, Cream Curds, Lobder, and cold Pot.For every SEASON of the YEAR. For MAY. Firji Courfe. At the Top dew’d Carp or Tench. At the Bottom a dew’d Rump of Beef. In the Middle aSallad. For the Four Corners. A FricalTee of Tripes, boil’d Chickens, a Pud- ding, Olives of Veal. Second Courfe. At the Top Rabbits or Turkey Pouts. At the Bottom green Goofe or youngjDucks. For the Four Corners. Lemon Cream, Quince Cream, Tarts, Almond Cuftards. In the Middle Jellies. For JUNE. Firji Lourfe. At the Top road Pike At the Bottom Scotch Collops. In the Middle dew’d Crab. For the Four Corners. Boil’d Chickens, Quaking Pudding, road Tongue, with Venifon Sauce, Beans and Bacon. Second Courfe.- At the Top a Turkey. At the Bottom Ducks or Rabbit?. In the Middle Strawberries. Two Side-difhes, ioall Lobder and Peas, For the Four Corners. Green Codlins, Apricot Cuftards, Sweetmeat- Tarts, prcferved Damfins, or Flummery. For JULY. Firji Courfe. At the Top green Peas Soup, remove dew’d Bread of Veal white. At the Bottom a Haunch of Venifon. In the Middle a Pudding. *• S 2 tA BILL of FARE 1 wo Side-difhes, a Difli of Fifh, and a Fricafiee of Rabbits. Second Ccurfe. At the Top Partridges or Pheafants. At the Bottom Ducks or Turkey. In the Middle a Difh of Fruit. > For the Four Corners. Solomon Gundie, Loblter, Tarts, Chocolate Cream. For AUGUST. Fir/f Courfe. At the Top Fifh. At the Eottom Venifon Pally, In the Middle Herb Dumplings. For the Four Corners. Fricafiee of Rabbits, dew’d Pigeons, boil’d Chickens, Fricafiee of Veal Sweetbreads with Ar- tichoke Bottoms. Second Courfe. At the Top Pheafants or Partridges. At the Bottom wild Ducks or Teal. In the Middle Jellies or Svliabubs. For the Four Corners. Preferv’d Apricots, Almond Cheefe-Cakes, Cudards and Sturgeon. For SEPTEMBER. Firjl Courfe. At the Top Collar’d Calf-head, with dew’d Pal- lets, Veal Sweetbreads, and forc’d Meat Balls. At the Bottom Udder and Tongue, or a Haunch qf Venifon. In the Middle an Amblet of Cockles, or roaft Lobfter. Two Skle-difhes, Pigeon Pie, and boil’d Chickens. Second Courfe. At the Top a road Pheafant. At the Bottom a Turkey.For every SEASON of the YEAR. S 3 For the Four Corners. Partridges, Artichoke Bottoms fry’d, Oyfter Loaves and Teal. For OCTOBER. Firjl Courfe. At the Top ftew’d Tench and Cod’s Head. At the Bottom roaft Pork or a Goofe. Two Side-di(hes, roaft Fifh, and boil’d Fowl and Bacon. For the Four Corners. Jugg’d Pigeons, Mutton Collops, Beef Rolls, and Veal Sweetbreads fricafTee’d. In the Middle, minc’d Pies or Oyfter Loaves. Second Courfe. At the Top Wild Fowl. At the Bottom a Hare. In the Middle Jellies. Two Side-dilhes, roafted Lobfter and fry’d Cream. For the Four Corners. Preferv’d Quinces, or ftew’d Pears, Sturgeon, cold Tongue, and Orange Cheefe-cakes. For NOVEMBER. FirJi Courfe. At the Top a Dilh of Filh. At the Bottom a Turkey Pie. Two Side-dilhes, Scotch Collops, and boil'd Tongue with Sprouts. In the Middle feallop d Oyfters. Second Courfe. At the Top a Dilh of Wild Fowl. At the Bottom roaft Lobfter. In the Middle Lemon Cream. For the Four Corners. Tarts, Curds, Apricots, and Solomon GunJie.A BILL of FARE For DECEMBER. Firjl Courje. At the Top boil’d Fowls. Two Side-dilhes, Bacon and Greens, and a Dilh of Scotch Collops. In the Middle minc’d Pies or Pudding. Second Courfe. At the Top a Turkey. In the Middle hot Apple-pie. Cuflard, Rafpbeny Cream, cold Pot and Crabs. At the Bottom road Beef. T the Top a Difli of Plumb Gruel. Remove, boil’d Fowls. At the bottom a difli of Scotch Collops. in the Middle Jel its. lor the lour Corners. Lobfler, Solomon Gondie, Cuflard, Tarts. For FEBRUARY. At the top a Difli of Fifh. Remove, a Couple of roafted Fowls. At the Bottom Wiki Duel s. Collar’d Pig, Cheefe-cakes, itew’d Apples and Curds In the Middle hot minc’d Pies. At the Top a Sack Poflet. Remove, a Couple of Ducks. At the Bottom a boil’d Tut key, with Oyfler Sauce. In the Middle Lemon Poffet. Two Side-dilhcs, roalled Lobfler, Oyfler Tic. For the Four Corners. A For the Four Corners. For MARCH.For every SEASON of the YEAR, For the Four Corners. Almond Cudards, Flummery, Cheefe-cakes, and dew’d Apples For APRIL. At the Top boil’d Chickens. At the Bottom a Bread of Veal. In the Middle Jellies. For the Four Corners. Orange Pudding, Cudards, Tarts and dew’d Oyllets. For MAY. At the Top a DiOi of Fi(h. At the Bottom Lamb or Mnttop Steaks. In the Middle Lemon Cream or Jellies. Two Stde-didies, Tarts, Rafpberry Cream. For the Four Corners. Veal Sweetbreads, dew’d Spinage, with poach’d Eggs and Bacon, Oyders in feallop’d Shells, boil’d Chickens. For JUNE. At the Top boil’d Chickens. At the Bottom a Tongue. In the Middle Lemon P"det. For the Fuur Corners. Cream Curds or Cudards, potted Ducks, Tarts, Lobtters, Artichokes or Peas For JULY. At the Top Scotch Col lops. At the Bottom road Chickens. In the Middle lte«’d Mnlhrooms. For the Four Corners. Cudards, Lobdcrs, fplit Tongue, and Solomon Gundie. For AUGUST. At the Top dew’d Bread ot Veal. At the Bottom road Turkey. In the Middle Pickles or Fruit.A BILL of FARE, &c. For the Four Corners. Cheefe-cakes and flummery, preferv’d Apricots, preferv’d Quinces. For SEPTEMBER. At the Top boil’d Chickens. At the Bottom a carbonaded Bread of Mutton, with Caper Sauce. In the Middle Oyders in feallop Shells, or dew’d Oyders. Two Side-difhes, hot Apple-Pie and Cudard. For OCTOBER. At the Top Rice-Gruel. Remove, a Couple ol Ducks. At the Bottom a Boil’d Turkey, with Oyder Sauce. In the Middle Jellies. l or the Four Corners. Lobder or Crab, Bla k Caps, Cudard or Cream, Tarts or collar’d Pig. For ' NOVEMBER. At the Top Fifh. At the Bottom Ducks or Teal. In the Middle: Oyiier Loaves. Remove a Dilh ol Fruit. Two Side-dilhes, minc’d Pies, Mutton Steaks •witJi Mulhroomsand Balls- For DECEMBER. At the Top boil’d Chickens. At the Bottom, a Dilh of Scotch Collops or Veal Cutlets. In the Middle Brawn. Remove Tarts. For the Four Corners. Boil’d Whitings or lry’d Soles, new College Pud- dings, Bologna Suufages, Scotch Cudard,DINNER in SUMMER. 5. Stew’d Bread of Veal. 1. Cod’s Head or Salmon. 2. Boil’d Chirkens. 3. A fine Pudding, or road Lobfler. 4. Beans and Bacon.SECOND COURSE. 1. Two young Turkeys or Ducklingsi 2. Stew’d Apples. 3. Cuftards. 4. Jellies or Lemon Poffet. 5 Tarts. 6. Preferved Damfins. 7. Green Goofc or Young Rabbits,9. Lamb. A SUPPER in SUMMER. 1. Boil’d Chickens. 2. Preferv’d Oranges or Apricots. 3. Flummery. 4. Afparagus. 5. Lemon Poffet. 6. Road Lobfler. 7. Stew’d Apples. S. Almond Checfe-Cakes,DINNER in WINTER, C\C*T -k CM j. A Soup. 2. Scotch Collops. . Boil’d Chickens, . Stew’d Oyflcrs or roafled Lobfier. . A Hunter’s Pudding. . K oalled Tongue. 7. A Ham, or Roaft Beef, Remove, I, Fifli.\ £ •ojjBSAJoqsnTOH *s» < papjBJ pUB p5ycoi *00^ Xaqjnx*** s{B°g p,Xjx •£* 6JJ*X JB3UI-5MMS *ST ss^oqaujy *IT sjooudy *ot IBSX^OV *6 widdB-auTj jo ssqpf *8 'fiiailBdpuB 5pg3jqj33M§ p,^3jg *1 sauj3q3 *9 ssSpiijJBj p,iiog *5 8»aS p4M3y S3jddy •* apBUBjr) y •£ 3UJBQ-J00]^ *5 ftoo$ qj!£-MEJ3 *i -aawiMns »: >raNNia /vO 00^-5 ^ Cl* 3 O u a. o. ci ^ S, O 35ShS.G3<3 •“*■* tn n *-» oINDEX £§- Thofe marked [thus*] are in the SUPPLEMENT. A j^LMOND make Cakes, do. Ciieefe Cakes, do. * do. another way Puffs do. Butter do. * do. another way flummery do. * Bifcuits Apple Dumplins, do. . to flew another way- . Artichoke Bottoms Page. B Page. Polfet to'T5EEF, brifket to flew 13 6$| Rump, do. 134 Beef Olives, to make rolls, do. rump to ragout collar’d to eat cold Dutch to make to pot {leaks to fry do. another way Brain Cakes to make Black Caps to make to 172 JO 87 105 12 jo6 12 7i 108 109 fry 107 108 108 to fricaffee to dry Apricot Pudding to make 114 * Jumballs, do. 12 Cuftard, do. 114 or Peach Chips, do. 115 to preferve ' 133 to make Marmalade 133 to dry 142 do.‘like Prunellas 162 to preferve green 164 do. another way 166 Ale Orange to make 1 21 * • bad into good ftrong Beer 20 Poffet to make 167 Afparagus, or green Peas to keep 137 Angelica to candy 141 T 13 H 54- 4-3 l9 69 42 J4 24 i°3 Brandy Orange to make 121 Lemon, do. Lemon do. another 1 29 way I 2g J 28 1 29 J I 2 I l6 141 black Cherry, do. Rafpberry, do. Ratafia,,do. do- another way Broccoli, to boil Beall Kidney, to roaft Beans Kidneys, to keep Button Mufhrooms to pickle 1 S3 Barberries to keen inflead of . S£,ing ‘ Ts Drops j 7 to pickle 157 to preferve for Tarts *36 to keep all the year 135- Barley Sugar, to make 1 37 * Black Paper to make fot drawing Patterns 19E X. I N D 10 to make a pie of 5C l do. another way C Page. Page. ABBAGE red to pickle Calf’s jelly, to make 101 56 F ummery, do. 106 CakeCarraway co make 93 ' * Char to pot 7 * Rich white plumb cake 14 Catchup to make 154 * Cake, Ifing for •5 * Walnut, do. 9 great, do. 91 * fine, Jo. Q Ifing for it 02 Cheefe Cakes, do 77 Bifcuit to make 97 Lemon, do. 90 Rafpherry 96 common, do. ?8 Portugal, do. 97. without currants, do. 78 Orange, do. [62 Cheefe Slipcoat, do. 79 Shrewlbury, do. 93 * fine Rufli • 7 0 2 * Bath 14 Bullies, do. 144 Gingerbread, do. 97 cream, do. 70 Seed, do. 94 Cherries to preferve for dry- Queen, do. 96 ing 140 King, do. 95 to preferve Id.O Angelica, do. 95 to dry 163 * Oatmeal, do. id. Colhflower to pickle white Breakfaft, do. 95 156 fine, do. 94 another way 156 to keep all the year 93 Chickens to fricafiee white Plumb, do. 9‘ 3. * Little Plumb, do. 13 do. brown 31 Plumb another way 9-1 furpnze 31 do. ordinary 95 to boil 3- Calf’s Head collar’d to eat * pie hot 4 hot 23 Collops Scotch, to make 21 do. to eat cold 23 do. white 3° ha (It’d 24 another way 170 do. white 24 Collops minc’d, to make 170 Pye of, to make 5° Cod’s Head to drefs 82 do. another way si7 Zoons, do. S9 to ragout 25 Cockles to pickle 148 to roall to eat like Pie amblet of, to make 66 25 Cordial Water of Cow flips, feet to fricafiee white 47 to make 130 to fry in butter 49 Cowfiip Syrup, do. 129 do. in eggs 5C Cracknels, do. 97 to make minc’d pics ol Cream Lemon, do. 99 5C do. to make yellow 103E ,X. I N D Page. Cream Orange 102 Quince 160 any preferv'd fruit 161 * burnt 13 to fry, to eat hot ioo| Chocolate, to make 95 Goofeberry, do. 114 Apple, do. 100 Curds, do. 99 Rice or Almond, do. 101 Cucumbers fliced to pickle J4S large to pickle 1 5 x to make mango of 154 to make pickle for 155; to dew 117 to fry for mutton fauce 63 Currant berries to pickle r 37 to preferve in Bunches 142 * to preferve whole 19 to make jelly ot 132 * Curds halty to make 26 Cuftard Almond 103 Sago 103 Scotch, to eat hot 11 o Cyder, to make 125 D D AMslNS to preferve 136 136 i jk 131 107 1 26 3° 30 4s 7‘ l1 T do. for tarts do. to keep do. to bottle Drops Ratafia, to make Lemon, do. Ducks, to boil to flew to flew whole Dumplins herb, to make plain fruit Dumplins Apple E P ELS to collar to flew to fpitchcoek Eggs to fricaffee white do. brown to flew in gravy pie, to make Elder buds to pickle to make pickle for F POWL, to force X * Feet Fritters Fruit, to make Apple, do. Oatmeal, do. Fruit to preferve green do. all the year French Bread, to make another way G P1 IRKINS to pickle Gilliflowers, do. * Ginger to candy * Lozenges to make Page. 71 80 84 84 39 39 40 49 152 1 64 8 67 63 71 13S 141 160 21 J54 14? 17 2 + 90 Gingerbread white * York * in little tins red another way * for keeping Goofeberry cakes to bottle ditto to preferve do. red Grapes to preferve all Winter x6 Granade 2 another way 16 13 1 + 9° 160 24 144 131 13? 13+ i3SINDEX. I- age 1 i i io i io Gruel Sago Plumb Rice Goofer Wafers, to make 78 H J-JAMS or tongues to fall 44 Hare, to flew 27 to pot 45 tojug _ 28 to roaft with a pudding in the bell)- 28 Hedge Hogs cupid to make HS Almond 146 Herrings to boil 84 to fry 85 to pickle " 85 to keep all the year 86 Hotch potch, ro make 170 TAM cherry, to make Bullies, do. * Rafplierrv. do. Damfins, do. * Jellv brown * currant jumbal Is, do. another way L T AMR leg of boiled, with ' 26 136 3 1 2 3 124 21 14c 144 22 >4 3 iS 11 5. >43 M Page. MACAROONS to make 96 .Mango of codlins Melon, do. Mead ftrong, do. another way another way Milk mull'd, a difh of nr Mulberries, to preferve whole 161 Mufcles, to pickle Mufhiooms, to pot to flew to pickle another way another way to fry po-' der to make Mutton dew’d fillet of fhoulder forc’d bread to collar do. another way do. to carbonade 149 88 §7 166 166 166 >65 15 *5 16 16 17 chine roafled, with Cel- >in fry’a * Larks in jelly l.amb with chickens ii icaffce white fricalTee brown I.ohder or crab to roaft to butter * LohHer A L’ltaliennc 1 eatch, ro make Loaves Oy (ter, do. lery chops, to make leg forc’d cutlets French fteass to fry artificial Venifon, make leg of. to fait to like ham N 26!NEAT’s Tongne pie. to a 26 17 >7 18 18 18 to >9 eat 44 27 57 57 8 make N'afturtium buds to O . 47 pickle 165 j n ONIONS to pickle 151 72! Orange chips to preferve I to put in giafles 13 aINDEX. * do. another way 10 * do. another way 26 7 74, 23 Page Orange or lemon to preferve chips another wap 165 marmalade to make 139 to preferve whole 143 * to candy whole 1 Tarts, to make * Butter, to make Oyflers Scotch, to make 112 to ltew 86 * to lard to fry 86 to feallop 86 to pickle 151 * Ox Lips to drefs 6 P p \LLETS dew’d 3- Pancakes, dare 7- Rice 67 * Partridges to pot * another way Parfnips to fry, to look lik Trout do. another way * Poverade, to make Palte to make for a Handing Pie 76 for a difli Pie 76 for Tarts 75 do. another way 75 do. do. 75 for Venifon Pafiy 76 of Pippins, white 137 of do. green 138 of do. red. 138 Patties favoury, to make 49 fweet 54 Pears to dry 142 Pears or Pippins to dry with out Sugar j6j 6 7 r 113 114 Page, Pigeons to make a Palpa- toon of 63 to flew 36 to pot 37 boil’d with fricaffee . fauce 37 mirranaded 36 to jug 35 to pickle 52 to broil whole 35 Pig Ro\ al, to make 46 to c liar 9? ears to tricaffee 37 like lamb in winter 27 Head roll’d to eat like brawn 47 Pike to eat like iturge6n 8q to Hew 81 to roaH w ith a pudding in the belly 82 Plumbs to preferve 162 Plumb porridge, to make 63 Pork to pickle 47 P offer fack, to make 104 another way 168 to make froth for 168 Lemon 104 Potatoe crabs to pickle 1 £5 Pudding black, to make 68 cuilard 159 orange 60 do. another way 60 do. another way 60 do. another way 60 do. another way 69 Lemon another way 10 Pudding Oatmeal, do. 117 * Almond to Apple, do. 60 g 1 on nil rice, do: 59 goofeberry, do, 73 *Pudding, College, do. Potatoe * another way carrot * another way quaking, to make another way quaking, do. Sago * another way pearl barley calf’s foot hunting * do. another way Liver for hare 28 and Page. t58 bo 11 59 11 57 62 69 5*i 25 164 58 57 1 1 71 E X. Page. caudle for 1 7 hare 45 another way 45 minc’d 167 another way 53 o) fter 56 codlin !47 tie for :almon 56 herb 68; * white Pot another way 11 curd 79 white in (kins 67 marrow 59 bread 7° colli flower *47 * fealded, to make 24 Punch,to make 130; do. another way 158 * do. for keeping 27 acid, to make 130 milk, to make 13° another wav 130 Purflnin to pickle U'S Ptc rich Turkey,’to make 34 Eel 73 Turbot head 73 herring 55 orange 62 ham 46 woodcock 52 fweer chicken 49 favoury, do. 53 fweet veal 53j QUID ANN Y to make 1 34 ^Quinces to preferve 149 do. another way 171 cream, to make 160 to make white 139 marmalade, do. 134 R \BBITS to fricaflee brown 28 do. white 29 pull’d 29 dreffed, to look like moor-game 29 Rafpberry and Strawberry fool to make 64 S SALMON, to collar 56 ^ * Salmon enMaigre 7 pot 146 Sprouts Savoy to boil 113 cabbage, do. 113 ranee for rump of beef 43 for neck of veal 26 for Turkey 33 another way 33 for boil’d Rabbits 43 for Pike Si for boil’d Salmon or Turhot S3 for haddock or cot! S4 for Salmon or 1 urbot SS for tame Ducks 105I N D E X. * * Page. Sauce for green Goofe 106 another way 106 for Chickens 32 for Tongues 50 for Cod’s Head 82 d<>. another way 83 for flefh or fifh 159 Soup Vermicelly 9 Hare 10 Cucumber 9 green Teas 18 Onion 11 for Peas in Winter 11 do. in Lent 11 Craw Filh *2 portable 2$ white or Almond 9 Scotch 12 do. without water 1 2 Saufages Bologna, to make 6 5 * Sheeps Rumps with rice 4 * Tongues broiled 4 Shrimps to pickle 149 Shrub Orange 123 Solomon Gundie to eat in Lent 89 another way 89 Smelts to pot 80 to pickle 81 Spinage dew'd with eggs 107 Toads, to make * Stoughton, to make 22 Sturgeon artificial, to ma 87 how to order how to make p for 169 Sugar to know when at candy height 134 Syllabubs whipp’d to make xo5 Syrup of Gilliflowers, to Page* Syrup of Mulberrie 128 of Violets 147 of Poppies : g lock to make for Hartlhorn Jelly x47 -ihell Fade, do. 7 5 Muffing for l>’allKidney 116 T rj£" A N >EY, to make 1 x3 another way 74 do. < 67 boil’d 66 Tarts marrow, to make 72 tianlparent 7? fw eet meats 74 Toalls fry’d, to make 159 Tongues jto road 5° to pot 41 Sheep or Hog to broil Tripes to fricaffee 47 38 to eat like chickens 38 Trout or other filh to fry 88 Tench or carp to dew S3 * Turtle Mock ? Turkey to boil 32 to road 33 to pot 35 A la Daube 34 V TTEAL Bread of to brown ragout *9 do. herrico 20 to roll 20 to dew 20 to dew fillet 21 make *44 Bread of to roll to cold to road favoury to make favoury Couley Knuckle to boil Rice eat 41 46 *59 . 5 with 44INDEX. Page Veal Sweetbreads tofricaffee 38 Cutlets to make 22 another way 22 do. another way 22 Venifon to pot 4.2 Haunch of, to roafl 54 Vinegar to make of Goole berries another way another way * another way W W ALNUTS, to J39 164 171 x pickle 150 150 do. black to make pickle for 150 do. white 157 * Wafer bifcuits, to make 24 * Water the gold, to make- 26 Wigs, to make 56 Wi id fowls to pot 42 Wine elder, to make 118 Page. Wine do. Flower 163 Goofeberry 127 another way 163 of ripe Goofeberries 118 Balm ng Green Goofeberries 20 Ginger Raifin Birch another way white Currant O range do. another way Mulberry Blackberry Cow flip another way another way do. Apricot Red Currant another way Cherry fours to preferve Woodcock to roafl 20 119 120 122 120 1 21 1 22 128 X28 121 I25 23 21 123 12J 127 12 6 *7 5° Supplement to the Index. Page. Calf’s foot pudding -.’6 Candy oranges or lemons whole 29 Goofeberries to bottle 3c Milk cured from the taflc ot turnips Pig 10 roafl pettitoes to drefs Sauce for a pig 32 29 29 29 FINIS. Page. Sauce for a Pig 29 Saufages 2j Rice pudding to boil 30 pudding, bachelors 31 Jelly currant, another way 5° Cakes, fugar for tea 31 Pies minc’d another way 31 PRINTED BY H. AND G. MOZLEY, MARKET-PUACE, CAINS BROUGH.s* >1 ' / \