91 but not for more than a centuiy after this did tlie full benefit of his discovery beg-in to be felt, when the tourniquet was introduced by Morel at Besancjon in 1674, and James Young of Plymouth in 1678, and improved by Petit in 1708-10. N<nv surgeons had time to look about them during an amputation, and to try to get a good covering tor the bone, so that the stump might heal more rapidly and bear pressure better. Great improvements were rapidly made, and any history of these improvements would need to trace two great parallel lines, one the circular method, the other the flaiJ operation.” “ 1. The old method in which the limb w.as lopped off by one sweep, all the tissues being divided at the same level, might be called the tme circular. This, however, was soon improved—” “j4. By Cheselden and Petit, who invented the double circular incision, in which first the skin and fat were cut and retracted, and then the muscle and bone were divided as high as exposed.” “ B. By Louis, who improved this by making the first incision include the muscles also, the bone alone being divided at the higher level.” “C. By Mj'nors of Birmingham, who dissected the skin back like the sleeve of a coat, and thus gained more covering.” “ D. Then comes the great improvement of Alanson, who first cut through skin and fat, and allowing them to retract, next exposed the bone still farther up by cutting the muscles obliquely, so as to leave the cut end of the bone in the apex of a conical cavity.” “ E. An easier mode, fulfilling the same indications, is found in the triple incision of Benjamin Bell of Edinburgh, who hi 1772 taught that first the skin and fat should be divided and retracted, next the muscles, and lastly the bone.” “ F. A slight improvement on E, ma<le by Hey of Leeds, who adi ised that the posterior muscles of the limb should be divided at a lower level than the anterior, to compensate for their greater range of contraction.” “ 2. In the progress of the flap operation fewer stages can be defined. Made by cutting from within outwards, after transfixion of the limb, the flaps varied in shape, size, position, and number, from the single posterior one of Verduyn of Amsterdam, to the two equal lateral ones of Vermale, and the equal anterior and posterior ones of the Edinburgh school.” “ Then came the battle of the schools : flap or circular.” “ Fln/i.—Speedy, easy, and less painful; apt to retract, and that unequally.” “ Circular.—Leaving a smaller wound, but more slow in perfonnancc, and apt to leave a central adherent cicatrix.” “ III. Tlie last era in amputation began after the introduction of anaisthetics. Now speed in amputation is no object, and the surgeon has fuU time to shape and carve his flaps into the curves most suited for