82 MUSCLES OF THE MALE PERIN/EUM. Sphincter Anl.—Tip & back of coccyx and superficial fascia in front of it. Central tendinous point of perinajum blending wdth accelerator urinae, transversus perinaji & levator ani.—S. by inferior hajmorrhoidal branch of pudic, & by anterior division of 4th sacral nerve. Levator Ani.—Back of pubes close to symphysis, spine of ischium, and, between these two points, from a white band or thickening of the pelvic fascia which marks point of division of the latter fascia into obturator & recto-vesical layers. Side & apex of coooy.x, median raphiS between coccyx and anus, side of lower part of rectum blending with sphincter ani, and decussates with its fellow in front of rectum and below & behind the prostate, forming the so- called levator prostatas, which latter fasciculus is sometimes separated from the remainder of the muscle by a little areolar tissue.—S. by anterior division of 4th sacral nerve. Coccygeus.—Spine of ischium & lesser sacro-sciatic ligament. Side of coccyx and of lower piece of the sacrum.—S. by anterior divisions of 4th & 6th sacral nerves. Internal Sphincter. — Is a thickened circular band of the unstriped muscular fibres of the intestine. Accelerator Urlnae, EJaculator Seminis, or Bulho- Cavernous.—Central tendinous point of perinaium & median raph6 in front of it. Its posterior fibres are inserted into the triangular ligament; its middle fibres decussate above the bulb 4& corpus spongiosum, which they encircle ; its anterior fibres are partly inserted into the corpus oavernosum, and partly joined above it in a tendinous expansion which covers dorsal vessels & nerves of penis.—S. by superficial perinasal nerve. Erector Penis, or Ischio-Cavernous.—Inner a.spect of tuberosity of ischium behind crus penis and pubic arch on either side, back part of under surface of the crus. By a tendinous expansion into fore part of under & outer surfaces of crus penis.—S. by superficial perimeal nerve. Transversus Perinaei.—Inner & fore part of tuberosity of ischium. Central tendinous point of perinaium blending with its fellow, the accelerator urinse, & sphincter ani.—S. by superficial perinaial nerve. Compressor, or Constrictor Urethrae.— Upper part of public arch on either side of symphysis. Its fibres surround membranous portion of the urethra, decussating above and below it.—S. by pudic nerve. Deep Transversus Perinaei.—Is a thin fasciculus which may or may not be. separated from posterior fibres of foregoing muscle. I decussates wit ts fellow behind the bulb, and covers Cowper’s gland.