90 flap forms a better cushion than one composed of skin and subcutaneous fat is erroneous. None of these objections can be raised against a covering composed soleiy of the cutaneous and subcutaneous tissues. But, On the other hand, in veiy emaciated subjects such a covering is verj- thin, and is apt to suffer from the direct pressure of the bone against it, and conse- quentiy in such cases it is weii to protect it by raising a certain amount of muscle rvith it. The object of the surgeon is, therefore, to save so much muscle that, after full retraction has taken place, it will still be level with the sa«Ti end of the bone. In oialer to obtain this result, the pi’oportions usually sufficient are to provide one diameter of covering composed of the skin and subcutaneous structures, and half a diameter of muscle, or more if the retraction is expected to be considerable, as in the lower part of the thigh. Skin flaps also, if very long, are apt to slough, as their vascular supply is somewhat limited, and this accident is especially likely to happen in old people. ... In any patient, whether young or old, sloughing will almost certainly occur if the surgeon turns the edge of the knife towards the flap instead of kee])ing it directed to the part to bo removed." Retrospect: the Choice of Methods.*—“Three great eras may be recognised in the progress of methods of amputating;— “I. Prior to the invention, or at least prior to the general introduction of the ligature and the tourniquet, the great barrier to all improvement in operating was the impossibility of checking hcomorrhage during an opera- tion, and after its conclusion. Many surgeons would not amputate at all, otheis only through gangrenous parts; others, more bold, only at the confines of parts in which gangrene had been artificially induced by tight ligatures. With the exception of Celsus, who in one place recommends a flap to be dissected up, and the bone thus divided at a higher level, all were in too great a hurry to get the operation completed to think of flaps. Cut through all the parts at the same level with a red-hot knife, if you will, like Fabrioius Ilildanus; by a single blow with a chisel and mallet, like Scultetus; or by a crushing guillotine, like Purmanus; or by two butchers’ chopping-knives fixed in heavy blocks of w'ood, one fixed, the other falling in a groove, like Botal; and then try to check the bleeding by tying a pig’s bladder over the face of the stump, like Hans de Gersdorf; or tying it up in the inside of a hen newly killed ; or by plunging it at once into boiling pitch. We are the less sui-prised to read of Celsus’ description of a flap operation, when we remember that it is almost certain that Celsus was acquainted with the ligature as a means of checking haemorrhage.” “II. A new era was ushered in when, about 1560, Ambrose Par6 invented, or reintroduced, the ligature as a means of arresting haemorrhage From Bell’s “ Operative Surgery.