125 to trust to digital compression, either of the femoral on the pubes, or of the common iliac through the walls of the abdomen. One must there- fore have recourse either to the aortic tourniquet or to Davy’s lever, which latter instrument, in the hands of its skilful and practised inventor, has given most satisfactory results. The danger of hemorrhage is in a great measure averted by the adoption of Durneaux Jordan’s oval operation, below described. Parts Divided in Making the Anterior Flap.—The knife first pierces, and divides somewhat variable portions of, the tensor vaginae femoris, glutei medius and minimus, and psoas and iliacus ; then, passing beneath the femoral and profunda vessels, it pierces and divides a variable extent of the pectineus, probably puncturing also the capsule of the hip- joint. As the knife is pushed onwards it pierces, and divides variable portions of, the adductor brevis, the adductor magnus, and the gracilis. As the knife cuts its way downwards and then forwards, it divides further portions of the muscles named, also portions of the vasti externus & internus and crureus, and the rectus, sartorius, and adductor longus. The femoral vessels and the internal or long saphenous neiwe are divided between the adductor longus and the vastus internus, behind the sartorius ; the profunda vessels are divided behind the adductor longus, sometimes a little higher up, in front of the pectineus. Just before the completion of the flap, there are diidded the internal or long saphenous vein, and the internal, middle, and external cutaneous nerves, all situated in the superfleial fascia. Parts Divided in Making the Posterior Flap. — In making the posterior flap, the surgeon divides the ligamentum teres and back part of the capsule ; the remaining portions of the muscles already named ; the obturator externus, with branches of the obturator artery and nerve; the pyriformis, the obturator internus and the gemelli, the quadratus femoris, and branches of the sciatic and gluteal arteries and superior gluteal nerve. The great sciatic nerve is divided in the lower part of the flap, just before the hamstring muscles and the gluteus maxinius. In the superficial fascia are divided the small sciatic nerve, and twigs from the inferior pudendal. 9