86 director should not otherwise be used for dividing the deep fascia. It will soon be learnt by experience that, when used otheraise than for the division of layers of fascia sufficiently thin for them to be translucent, the director is by no means the safe instrument generally supposed. (3.) The dissection which follows the division of the deep fascia (when the artery is not immediately subjacent to it) should aim mainly at distinctly making out the several successive guide-points. All structures met with should be separated along the whole length of the wound. The wound should be kept of the same depth and length throughout; it should not be allowed to become contracted or narrowed till the sheath of the artery is reached, and the vessel is clearly seen through it. (4.) The moment the sheath is thoroughly exposed, and the vessel clearly seen, dissection along the length of the wound should cease. Only such portion of the sheath should be opened as is necessary for the convenient cleaning of the artery and tor passing the aneurism needle and thread. How an arterj' should be cleaned is better demonstrated than ex- plained in words. But the result of this most delicate part of the opera- tion should be that a portion of the .artery, vaiying from an eighth to a quarter of an inch in length, be absolutely and completely bared without any disturbance whatsoever of any other element of the neuro-vascular bundle; the venas oomites, in particular, should in no way be turned out of the compartment of the sheath occupied by them. (5.) The aneurism needle should be passed from the side of any important neiwe or vein ; it may be passed either armed or unarmed. Experience should be acquired in tying the reef-knot. REMARKS ON AMPUTATIONS. Position of the Operator.—Always stand, if it be not too inconvenient, ox the right bide of the limb to be amputated, so as to be able to retract with your left hand the tissues which are to fomi the covering or flap ; the words “if it be not too inconvenient” referring, for obvious reasons, to amputations of the left thigh above its middle, and of the left ami above its upper third. In all amputations oj right limbs stand on the right side of the body. Methods of Amputatingf. — From the point of view of the inexperienced operator, operating, it is hoped, on the dead body, methods of amputation may conveniently be divided, the author thinks, into those in which the covering is cut from suithout inwards, i.e., from the skin towards the deeper parts (circular, mixed flap & circular, flaps from without inwards), and those in which the covering (necessarily consisting of two flaps) is made from within outwards, or by transfi.xion.