175 ELBOW-JOINT. 132.—Left Elbow-Joint, showing Anterior and Internal Ligaments. ence of the head of the radius with the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, allowing of the movement of rotation of the radius on the ulna, the chief action of the superior radio-ulnar articulation. The articular surfaces are covered with a thin layer of cartilage, and connected together with the following ligaments:— Anterior. Internal Lateral. Posterior. External Lateral. The Anterior Ligament (fig. 132) is a broad and thin fibrous layer, which, covers the anterior surface of the joint. It is attached to the front of the humerus immediately above the coronoid fossa; below, to the anterior surface of the coronoid process of the ulna and orbicular ligament, being continuous on each side with the lateral ligaments. Its superficial or oblique fibres pass from the inner condyle of the humerus outwards to the orbicular ligament. The middle fibres, vertical in direction, pass from the upper part of the coronoid depression, and become blended with the preceding. A third, or transverse set, intersect these at right angles. This ligament is in relation, in front, with the Ttra.nhia.1ip anticug^ behind, with the synovial mem- brane. The Posterior Ligament (fig. 133) is a thin and loose membranous fold, attached, above, to the lower end of the humerus, immediately above the olecranon fossa; below, to the margin of the olecranon. The superficial or transverse fibres pass f between the adjacent margins of the olecranon fossa. The deeper portion con- sists of vertical fibres, which pass from r jbhe upper part of the olecranon fossa to the margin of the olecranon. This liga- ment is in relation, behind, with thpi ten- don of the JTriceps and the Anconeus ; in front, with the synovial membrane. The Internal Lateral Ligament (fig. 132) is a thick triangular band, consist- ing of two distinct portions, an anterior and posterior. The anterior portion, di- rected obliquely forwards, is attached, above, by its apex, to the front part of the internal condyle of the humerus ; and, below, by its broad base, to the inner margin of the coronoid process. The 'posterior portion', also of triangular form, is attached, above, by its apex, to the lower and back part of the internal condyle ; below, to the inner margin of the olecranon. This ligament is in re- lation, internally, with the Triceps and Flexor carpi ulnaris muscles, and the TljTTHj^nerv^. The External Lateral Ligament jug. 133) is a short and narrow fibrous fasci- culus, less distinct than the internal, attached, above, to the external condyle of the humerus • below, to the orbicular ligament, some of its most posterior fibres passing over that ligament, to be inserted into the outer margin of the ulna. This ligament is intimately blended with the tendon of origin of the Supinator brevis muscle. The Synovial Membrane is very extensive. It covers the margin of the arti-