RAD JO-ULNAR. 177 In combination with any position of flexion or extension, the head of the radius can be rotated in the upper radio-ulnar joint, carrying the hand with it. The hand is articulated to the lower surface of the radius only, aud the concave or sig- moid surface on the lower end of the radius travels round the lower end of the ulna. The latter bone is excluded from the wrist-joint (as will be seen in the sequel) by the triangular fibro-cartilage. Thus, rotation of the head of the radius, round an axis which passes through the external condyle of the humerus, imparts circular movement to the band through a very considerable arc. If it is necessary to turn the hand upwards and downwards without changing its place (as in using a corkscrew), this circular movement is obviated by rapid instinctive compensating changes in the position of the elbow. VI. Radio-Ulnar Articulations. The articulation of the radius with the ulna is effected by ligaments, which connect together both extremities as well as the shafts of these bones. They may, consequently, be subdivided into three sets:—1. the superior radio-ulnar ; 2. the midd le radio-ulnar ; and, 3. the inferior radio-ulnar articulations. 1. Superior Radio-Ulnar Articulation. This articulation is a lateral ginglymus. The bones entering into its forma-- tion are the inner side of the circumference of the head of the radius, which rotates within the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna. These surfaces are covered with cartilage, and invested with a duplicature of synovial membrane, continuous with that which lines the elbow-joint. Its only ligament is the annular or or- bicular. The Orbicular Liq anient (fig. 133) is a strong, flat band of ligamentous fibres, which surrounds the head of the radius, and retains it in firm connection with the lesser sigmoid cavity of the nlna. It forms about three-fourths of a fibrous ring, attached by each end to the extremities of the sigmoid cavity, and is broader at the upper part of its circumference than below, by which means the head of the radius is more securely held in its position. Its outer surface is strengthened by the ex- ternal lateral ligament of the elbow, and affords origin to part _q£—the- Supinator brevis muscle. Its inner surface is smooth, and lined by synovial membrane. Actions. The movement which takes place in this articulation is limited to rotation of the head of the radius within the orbicular ligament, and upon the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna; rotation forwards being called pronation I rotation backwards, supination. 2. Middle Radio-Ulnar Articulation. The interval between the shafts of the radius and ulna is occupied by two ligaments. Oblique. Interosseous. The Oblique or Round Ligament (fig. 132) is a small, round fibrous cord, which extends obliquely downwards and outwards, jVom the tubercle of the ulna at the base of the coronoid process, to the radius a little below the bicipit;il tuberosity. Its fibres run in the opposite direction to those of the interosseous ligament; and it appears to be placed as a substitute for it in the upper part of the interosseous interval. This ligament is sometimes wanting. The Interosseous Membrane is a broad and thin plane of aponeurotic fibres, descending obliquely downwards and inwards, from the interosseous ridge on the radius to that on the ulna. It is deficient above, commencing about an inch be- neath the tubercle of the radius ; is broader in the middle than at either extremity ; and presents an oval aperture just above its lower margin for the passage of the anterior interosseous vessels to the hack of the forem-m This ligament serves to connect the bones, and to increase the extent of surface for the attachment of the N