STERNOCLAVICULAR JOINT. 169 of the clavicle is much, larger than that of the sternum, and invested with a layer of carti]age,* which is considerably thicker than that on the latter bone. The ligaments of this joint are the Anterior Sterno- Clavicular. Inter-Clavicular. Posterior Sterno-Clavicular. Costo-Clavicular (rhomboid). Interarticular Fibro- Cartilage. The Anterior Sterno-Clavicular Ligament is a broad band of fibres, which covers the anterior surface of the articulation, being attached, above, to the upper and front part of the inner extremity of the clavicle ; and, passing obliquely downwards and inwards, is attached, below, to the front and upper part of the first piece of the sternum. This ligament is covered in front by the sternal portion of the Sterno-cleido-mastoid and the integument; behind, it is in relation with the inter- articular fibro-cartilage and the two, synovial membranes. The Posterior Sterno-Clavicular Ligament is a similar band of fibres, which covers the posterior surface of the articulation, being attached, above, to the pos- terior part of the inner extremity of the clavicle ; and which, passing obliquely downwards and inwards, is connected, below, to the posterior and upper part of 130.—Sterno-Clavicular Articulation. Anterior View. the sternum. It is in relation, in front, with the interarticular fibro-cartilage and synovial membranes ; behindT with the Sterno-hvoid and Sterno-thvroid Ti-msnles -vUi. be #"4« The Interclavicular Ligament is a flattened band, which varies considerably in form and size in different individuals; it passes from the upper part of the inner extremity of one clavicle to the other, and is closely attached to the upper margin of the sternum. It is in relation, in front, witli the integument; behind, with the Sterno-thyroid muscles. The Costo-Glavicular Ligament (rhomboid) is short, flat, and strong: it is of a rhomboid form, attached, below, to the upper and inner part of the cartilage of the first rib : it ascends obliquely backwards and outwards, and is attached, above, to the rhomboid depression on the under surface of the clavicle. It is in rela- tion, in front, with the tendon of origin of the Subclavius ; behind, with the subclavian vein. The Interarticular Fibro-Cartilage is a flat and nearly circular disc, interposed between the articulating surfaces of the sternum and clavicle. It is attached, above, to the upper and posterior border of the clavicle; below, to the cartilage of * According to Bruch, the sternal end of the clavicle is covered "by a tissue, which is rather fibrous than cartilaginous in structure.