MUSCLES AND FASCIAE. 204 fibres are inserted into the integumelit, as on the- side of the neck, the face, and around the margin of the anus ; and is almost entirely wanting in the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, where the integument is adherent to the subjacent aponeurosis. The superficial fascia connects the skin to the subjacent parts, facili- tates the movement of the skin, serves as a soft nidus for the passage of vessels and nerves to the integument, and retains the warmth of the body, since the adipose tissue contained in its areolae is a bad conductor of caloric. The aponeurotic or deep fascia is a dense inelastic unyielding fibrous mem- brane, forming sheaths for the muscles, and affording them broad surfaces for attachment. It consists of shining tendinous fibres, placed parallel with one another, and connected together by other fibres disposed in a reticular manner. It is usually exposed on the removal of the superficial fascia, forming a strong investment, which not only binds down collectively the muscles in each region, but gives a separate sheath to each, as well as to the vessels and nerves. The fascia3 are thick in unprotected situations, as on the outer side of a limb, and thinner on the inner side. Aponeurotic fasciae are divided into two classes, aponeuroses of insertion, and aponeuroses of investment. The aponeuroses of insertion serve for the insertion of muscles. Some of these are formed by the expansion of a tendon into an aponeurosis, as, for instance, the tendon of the Sartorius ; others are connected directly to the muscle, as the aponeuroses of the abdominal muscles. The aponeuroses of investment form a sheath for the entire limb, as well as for each individual muscle. Many aponeuroses, however, serve both for investment and in- sertion. Thus the aponeuroses given off from the tendon of the Biceps of the arm near its insertion is continuous with, and partly forms, the investing fascia of the forearm, and gives origin to the muscles in this region. The deep fasciae assist the muscles in their action, by the degree of tension and pressure they make upon their surface: and, in certain situations, this is increased and regulated by muscular ac- tion, as, for instance, by the Tensor vaginas femoris and Gluteus maximus in the thigh, by the Biceps in the leg, and Palmaris longus in the hand. In the limbs, the fasciae not only invest the entire limb, but give off septa, which separate the various muscles, and are attached beneath to the periosteum : these prolongations of fasciae are usually spoken of as intermuscular septa. The Muscles and Fasciae may be arranged, according to the general division of the body, into those of the head, face, and neck ; those of the trunk ; those of the upper extremity ; and those of the lower extremity. MUSCLES AND FASCL33 OF THE HEAD AND FACE. The muscles of the Head and Face Consist of ten groups, arranged according to the region in which they are situatech 1. Cranial Region. 6. Superior Maxillary Region. 2. Auricular Region. 7. Inferior Maxillary Region. 3. Palpebral Region. 8. Intermaxillary Region. 4. Orbital Region. 9. Temporo-Maxillary Region. 5. Nasal Region. 10. Pterygo-Maxillary Region. The muscles contained in each of these groups are the following :— 1. Cranial Region. 3. Palpebral Region. Occipito-frontalis. Orbicularis palpebrarum. Corrugator supercilii. 2. Auricular Region. . Tensor Tarsi. Attollens aurem. 4- Orbital Region. Attrahens aurem. Levator palpebrae. Retrahens aurem. Rectus superior.