FIBULAR REGION. sheath; it then passes through another sheath, over the internal lateral ligament, and beneath the calcaneo-scaphoid articulation, and is inserted into the tuberosity of the scaphoid, and internal cuneiform bones. The tendon of this muscle contains a" sesamoid bone, near its insertion, and gives off fibrous expansions, one of which passes backwards to the os calcis, others outwards to the middle and external cuneiform, and some forwards to the bases of the third and fourth metatarsal bones (fig. 196). Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Soleus, and Flexor longus digitorum, the posterior tibial vessels and nerve, and the peroneal vessels, from which it is separated by the deep fascia. By its deep surface, with the interosseous ligament, the tibia, fibula, and ankle-joint. Nerves. The Popliteus is supplied by the internal popliteal nerve, the remaining muscles of this group by the posterior tibial nerve. Actions. The Popliteus assists iu flexing the leg upon the thigh ; when the leg is flexed, it will rotate the tibia inwards. The Tibialis posticus is a direct extensor of the tarsus upon the leg; acting in conjunction with the Tibialis anticus, it turns the sole of the foot inwards, antagonising the Peroneus longus, which turns it outwards. The Flexor longus digitorum and Flexor longus pollicis are the direct Flexors of the phalanges, and, continuing their action, extend the foot upon the leg ; they assist the Gastrocnemius and Soleus in extending the foot, as in the act of walking, or in standing on tiptoe. In consequence of the oblique direction of the tendon of the long extensor, the toes would be drawn inwards, were it not for the Flexor accessorius muscle, which is inserted into the outer side of that tendon, and draws it to the middle line of the foot during its action. Taking their fixed point from the foot, these muscles serve to maintain the upright posture, by steadying the tibia and fibula, perpendicularly, upon the ankle-joint. They also serve to raise these bones from the oblique position they assume in the stooping posture. Fibulae Region. Peroneus Longus. Peroneus Brevis. Dissection. These muscles are readily exposed, by removing the fascia covering their surface, from below upwards, in the line of direction of their fibres. The Peroneus Longus is situated at the upper part of the outer side of the leg, and is the more superficial of the two muscles. It arises from the head, and upper two-thirds of the outer surface of the shaft of the fibula, from the deep fascia, and from the intermuscular septa, between it and the muscles on the front, and those on the back of the leg. It terminates in a long tendon, which passes behind the outer malleolus, in a groove, common to it and the Peroneus brevis, the groove being converted into a canal by a fibrous band, and the tendons in- vested by a common synovial membrane; it is then reflected, obliquely forwards, across the outer side of the os calcis, being contained in a separate fibrous sheath, lined by a prolongation of the synovial membrane from that which lines the groove behind the malleolus. Having reached the outer side of the cuboid bone, it runs in a groove on the under surface of that bone, which is converted into a canal by the long calcaneo-cuboid ligament, and is lined by a synovial membrane: the tendon then crosses obliquely the sole of the foot, and is inserted into the outer side of the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The tendon changes its direction at two points : first, behind the external malleolus ; secondly, on the outer side of the cuboid bone : in both of these situations, the tendon is thickened, and, in the latter, a sesamoid bone is usually developed in its substance. Relatio?is. By its superficial surface, with the fascia and integument; by its deep surface, with the fibula, the Peroneus brevis, os calcis and cuboid bone : by its anterior border, with an intermuscular septum, which intervenes between it and the Extensor longus digitorum; by its posterior border, with an inter-