SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE PERINyEUM. | erection of the penis, as they are inserted into, and continuous with, the fascia of * the penis, compressing the dorsal vein during the contraction of the muscle. The Erector Penis covers the unattached part of the cms penis. It is an elongated muscle, broader in the middle than at either extremity, and situated on either side of the lateral boundary of the perinseum. It arises by tendinous and fleshy fibres from the inner surface of the tuberosity of the ischium, behind the 394.—The Superficial Muscles and Vessels of the Perinseum. crus penis, from the surface of the cms, and from the adjacent portion of the ramus of the pubes. Prom these points, fleshy fibres succeed, which end in an aponeurosis which is inserted into the side and under surface of the crus penis. This muscle compresses the crus penis, and thus serves to maintain the organ erect. The Transverse Perinmi is a narrow muscular slip, which passes more or less transversely across the back part of the perineal space. It arises by a small tendon from the inner and fore side of the tuberosity of the ischium, and, passing obliquely forwards and inwards, is inserted into the central tendinous point of the perinseum, joining in this situation with the muscle of the opposite side, the Sphincter ani behind, and the Accelerator urine in front. Between the muscles just examined, a triangular space exists, bounded internally by the Accelerator urine, externally by the Erector penis, and behind by the Transversus perinei. The floor of. this space isjfbrmed by the triangular ligament of the urethra (deep perineal fascia), and, running from behind forwards in it, are the superficial perineal vessels and nerves, the transverse perineal artery coursing along the posterior boundary of the space, on the Transversus perinmi muscle. In the lateral operation of lithotomy, the knife is carried obliquely across the back part of this space, downwards and outwards, into the ischio-rectal fossa, dividing the Transversus perinei muscle and artery, the posterior fibres of the Accelerator urine, the superficial perineal vessels and nerve, and more posteriorly the external hemorrhoidal vessels.