176 ARTICULATIONS. cular surface of the humerus, aud lines the coronoid and olecranon fossa on that bone; from these points, it is reflected over the anterior, posterior, and lateral ligaments; and forms a pouch between the lesser sigmoid cavity, the internal I33-—Left Elbow-Joint, showing Posterior surface of the annular ligament, and the circumference of the head of the radius. The Muscles in relation with the joint are, in front, the Brachialis anticus ; be- hind, the Triceps and Anconeus ; exter- nally, the Supinator brevis, and the com- mon tendon of origin of the Extensor muscles ; internally, the common tendon of origin of the Flexor muscles, and the Elexor carpi ulnaris, with the ulnar nerve. The Arteries supplying the joint are de- rived from the communicating branches between the superior profunda, inferior profunda, and anastomotic branches of the brachial, with the anterior, posterior, and interosseous recurrent branches of the ulnar, and the recurrent branch of the radial. These vessels form a complete chain of inosculation around the joint. The Nerves are derived from the ulnar, as_it passes between.the internal condyle il^^^^U^and the olecranon; and a few filaments %-r*cLu&i> ±JicM» from the musculocutaneous.^ Actions. The elbow-joint comprises three different portions : viz. the joint be- tween the ulna, and hnmorns, that between the head of thoneadius and the humerus, and the superior radio-ulnar articulation, described below. All these articular sur- faces are invested by a common synovial membrane, and the movements of the whole joint should be studied together. The combination of the movements of flexion and extension of the forearm with those of pronation and supination of the hand, which is ensured by the two being performed at the same joint, is essential to the accuracy of the various minute movements of the hand. The portion of the joint between the ulna and humerus is a simple hinge-joint, and allows of movements of flexion and extension only. The shape of the trochlear surface of the humerus, with its prominences and depressions accurately adapted to the opposing surfaces of the olecranon, prevents any lateral movement. In the ordinary position assumed by the humerus, when resting on the prominent internal condyle, this direct movement of flexion carries the hand inwards, towards the chest anofmouth. The joint between the head of the radius and the capitellum or radial head of the humerus is an arthrorlial joint. The bony surfaces would of themselves con- stitute an enarthrosis and allow of movement in all directions, were it not for the orbicular ligament by which the head of the radius is bound down firmly to the sigmoid cavity of the ulna, and which prevents any separation of the two bones laterally. It is to the same ligament that the head of the radius owes its security from dislocation, which would otherwise constantly occur, as a consequence of the shallowness of the cup-like surface on the head of the radius. In fact, bjit fo,r t]iis ligament, the tendon of the hi oops would be liable to pull the head of the radius out of the joint.* In complete extension, the head of the radius glides so far back on the outer condyle that its edge is plainly felt at the back of the joint. * Humphry, op. cit. p. 4T9- and External Ligaments.