427 OF THE NECK. Branches. The temporal vein receives in its course some parotid veins, an articular branch from the articulation of the jaw, anterior auricular veins from the external ear, and a vein of large size, the transverse facial, from the side of the face. The Internal Maxillary Vein is a vessel of considerable size, receiving branches which correspond with those of the internal maxillary artery. Thus it receives the middle meningeal veins, the deep temporal, the pterygoid, masseteric, and buccal, some palatine veins, and the inferior dental. These branches form a Tarp^ plexus, the pterygoid, which is placed between the Temporal and External pterygoid, and partly between the Pterygoid muscles. This plexus communicates very freely with the facial vein, and with the cavernous smus. by branches j through the base of the skull. The trunk of thlTvem then passes backwards, behind the neck of the lower jaw, and unites with the temporal vein, forming the temporo-maxillary. The Temjporo-Maxillary Vein, formed by the union of the temporal and internal maxillary vein, descends in the substance of the parotid gland, between the ramus of the jaw and the Sterno-mastoid muscle, and divides into two branches, one of which passes inwards to join the facial vein, the other is continuous with the external jugular. It receives near its termination the posterior auricular vein. The Posterior Auricular Vein commences upon the side of the head, by a plexus which communicates with the branches of the temporal and occipital veins. The vein descends behind the external ear and joins the temporo-maxillary, just before that vessel terminates in the external jugular. This vessel receives the stylo-mastoid vein, and some branches from the back part of the external ear. The Occipital Vein commences at the back part of the vertex of the skull, by I a plexus in a similar manner with the other veins. It follows the course of the occipital artery, passing deeply beneath the muscles of the back part of the neck, 1 and terminates in the jnjsmaj jjlgalax, occasionally in the external jugular. As this vein passes opposite the mastoid process, it receives the mastoid vein, which establishes a communication with the lateral sinus. Veins of the Neck. The veins of the neck, which return the blood from the head and face, are the External jugular. Anterior jugular. Posterior external jugular. Internal jugular. Vertebral. The External Jugular Vein receives the greater part of the blood from the exterior of the cranium and deep parts of the face, being a continuation of the temporo-maxillary and posterior auricular veins. It commences in the substance of the parotid gland, on a level with the angle of the lower jaw, and runs perpen- dicularly down the neck, in the direction of a line drawn from the angle of the jaw to the middle of the clavicle. In its course it crosses the Sterno-mastoid 1 muscle, and runs parallel with its posterior border as far as its n.ffnc.l-n-npnf, in iRg 1 clavicle, where it perforates the deep fascia, and terminates in the subclavian vein, on the outer side of the internal jugular. In the neck, it is separated from the Sterno-mastoid by the anterior layer of the deep cervical fascia, and is covered by the Platysma, the superficial fascia, and the integument. This vein is crossed about its centre by the superficial cervical nerve, and its upper half is accompanied by the auricularis magnus nerve. The external jugular vein varies I in size, bearing an inverse proportion to that of the other veins of the neck; it is occasionally double. It is provided with two pairs of valves,, the lower pair being placed at its entrance into the subclavian Vein, the upper pair in most "cases about