cxxv DEVELOPMENT OP GEN1TO-URINARY ORGANS. wards form the larynx are recognised as early as the sixth week, viz. : a projection on either side of the pharyngeal opening, the rudiment of the arytenoid cartilages, and a transverse elevation from the third pharyngeal arch, which afterwards becomes the epiglottis : the vocal cords and ventricles of the larynx are seen about the fourth month. The traces of the diaphragm appear early, in the form of a fine membrane, separating the lungs from the Wolffian bodies, the stomach and liver, but the source of its formation has not been ascertained. The pleural and peritoneal cavities are then separated, having been common up to this time. The serous membrane of the pleura is formed about the tenth week; but its development is also unknown. Development of the genito-urinary organs.—The allantois communicates at first with the lower part of the primitive intestine by a canal—the urachus. After the second month the lower part of the urachus dilates, so as to form the bladder, which then communicates above with the cavity of the urachus, and below with the rectum, by a canal of communication which is afterwards transformed into the urethra. The urachus is obliterated before the termination of foetal life; but the cord formed by its obliteration is perceptible throughout life, passing from the upper part of the bladder to the umbilicus. The kidneys are also formed from the lower end of the urachus. They are at first hollow organs lying behind and below the Wolffian body. As their distance from the bladder increases, the ureters become developed, and the simple cul-de-sacs in which the foetal kidneys commence divide and subdivide so as to form lobulated organs provided with calices in their interior. This lobulation is perceptible for some time after birth. The suprarenal bodies are formed independently both of the kidneys and Wolffian bodies. The Wolffian body, or primordial kidney, is perceptible about the third week, forming a mass of cells which soon give rise to a hollow organ, situated on either side of the primitive vertebrse, and extending from the heart to the lower end of the embryo, terminating above in a cul-de-sac and opening below into the bladder. The structure of the Wolffian body is in many respects analogous to that of the permanent kidney. It is composed partly of an excretory canal into which open numerous 'conduits,' rectilinear at first, but afterwards tortuous, and partly of a cellular or glandular struc- ture, in which Malpighian tufts are found. It is fixed to the diaphragm by a superior ligament, and to the spinal column by an inferior or lumbar ligament. Its office is the same as that of the kidneys, viz., to secrete fluid containing urea, which accumulates in the bladder. When the permanent kidneys are formed, the greater part of the Wolffian body disappears. The rest takes part in the formation of the genital organs. The Internal genital organs have at first no distinctive signs of sex. They are developed, from the Wolffian body, the genital gland, and the conduit of Miiller. The genital glands are masse? of cells which are formed towards the sixth week of foetal life. They are produced from the middle blasto- dermic layer, and lie on the inside of the Wolffian body, to which they are attached by a mesenteric layer of peritoneum. The conduit of Miiller, or genital duct, is formed at the same time as the genital gland, and