i74 ARTICULATIONS. the muscles acting as accessory ligaments, they can be carried considerably further l^rJjipjT|nvfir>inptH of tho acapnia, involving, pf nnnrsiPj motion it, thp, norn.p.o.jvnr| sterno-clavicular joints. These joints are therefore to be regarded as accessory structures to the shoulder-joint.* The extent of these movements of the scapula is very considerable, especially in extreme elevation of the arm, which movement is best accomplished when the arm is thrown somewhat forward, since the articular surface of the humerus is broader in the middle than at either end, especially the lower, so that the range of elevation directly forward is less, and that directly backward still more restricted. The great width of the central portion of the humeral head also allows of very free horizontal movement when the arm is raised to a right angle, in which movement the arch formed by the acromion, the eoracoid process, and the coraco-acromial ligament, constitutesji^s^rt^oFI^ijjpje^ mental articular cavity for the head of the bone. pp . The looseness of the capsule is so great that the arm will fall about an inch from the scapula when the muscles are dissected from the capsular ligament, and an opening made in it to remove the atmospheric pressure. The movements of the joint, therefore, are jaot_regulated by the capsule, sjjjnuch as by the surrounding muscles and by the pressure of the atmosphere, an arrangement which ' renders the movements of the joint much more easy than they would otherwise have been, and permits a swinging pendulum-like vibration of the limb, when the muscles are at rest.' (Humphry.) The fact, also, that in all ordinary positions of the joint the capsule is not put on the stretch, enables the arm to move freely in all directions. Extreme movements are checked by the tension of appropriate portions of the capsule, as well as by the interlocking of the bones. Thus it is said that ' abduc- tion is checked by the contact of the great tuberosity with the upper edge of the glenoid cavity, adduction by the tension of the eoraco-lmmeral ligament.' (Beaunis et Bouchard.) s^yo.sb^ic,Jt) The intimate union of the tendons of the four short muscles with the capsule ^•Mc^^Jj^jC converts these muscles into elastic and spontaneously-acting ligaments of the joint, /■ and it is regarded as being also intended to prevent the join's into which all portions j of the capsule would alternately fall in the varying positions of thej-oint from being J driven between the boneiTBythe pressure of the atmosphere. & The peculiar relations otL the biceps tendon to the shoulder-joint appear to sub- ' serve various purposes. In the first place by its connection with both the shoulder and elbow, the muscle harmonises the action of the two joints, and acts as an elastic ligament in all positions, in the manner previously adverted to.f Next it strengthens the upper part of the articular cavity, and prevents the head_of_the 2" -humerus from being pressed up against the acromion process, when the deltoid contracts, instead of forming the centre of motion in the glenoid cavity. By its * passage along the bicipital groove it assists to render the head of the humerus steady in the various movements of the arm and forearm. To these offices Prof. u Humphry adds, that * it assists the supra- and infraspinatus muscles to cause the head of the humerus to revolve in the glenoid cavity when the arm is raised from the side, and that it holds the head of the humerus firmly in contact with the glenoid cavity, and prevents its slipping over the lower edge of the cavity or being displaced by the action of the latissimus dorsi and pectoralis major when the arm is raised from the side, as in climbing and many other movements.' V. Elbow-Joint. The Elbow is a qinglymus or hinge joint. The bones entering into its forma- tion are the trochlear surface of the humerus, which is received in the greater sigmoid cavity of the ulna, and admits of the movements peculiar to this joint, those of flexion and extension, whilst the cup-shaped depression on the head of the radius articulates with the lesser, or radial, head of the humerus, and the circumfer- * See pp. 170, 171. t See p. 148.