BASE OF THE BRAIN". 477 nerve is received ; it then curves over the anterior and upper surface of the hemi- sphere, along the margin of the longitudinal fissure, to its posterior extremity, where it curves forwards along the under surface of the hemisphere as far as the middle lobe. The convolutions on the outer convex surface of the hemisphere, the general direction of which is more or less oblique, are the largest and the most complicated ' convolutions of the brain, frequently becoming branched like the letter Y in their course upwards and backwards towards the longitudinal fissure : these convolutions attain their greatest development in man, and are especially characteristic of the I human brain. They are seldom symmetrical on the two sides. Cerebrum. Under Surface or Base. (Fig. 262.) The nnder surface of each hemisphere presents a subdivision, as already mentioned, into three lobes, named from their position, anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior lobe, of a triangular form, with its apex backwards, is somewhat concave, and rests upon the convex surface of the roof of the orbit, being separated from the middle lobe by the fissure of Sylvius. The middle lobe, which is more prominent, is received into the middle fossa of the base of the skull. The posterior lobe rests upon the tentorium, its extent forwards being limited by the anterio. margin of the cerebellum. The various objects exposed to view on the under surface of the cerebrum, in and near the middle line, are here arranged in the order in which they are met ' with from before backwards. Longitudinal fissure. Tuber cinereum. Corpus callosum and its peduncles. Infundibulum. Lamina cinerea. Pituitary body. Olfactory nerve. Corpora albicantia. Fissure of Sylvius. Posterior perforated space. Anterior perforated space. Crura cerebri. Optic commissure. The longitudinal fissure partially separates the two hemispheres from one another ; it divides the two anterior lobes in front: and on raising the cerebellum and pons, it will be seen completely separating the two posterior lobes, the intermediate portion of the fissure being filled up by the great transverse band of white matter, the corpus callosum. Of these two portions of the longitudinal fissure, that which separates the posterior lobes is the longest. In the fissure between the two anterior lobes the anterior cerebral arteries may be seen ascending to the corpus callosum ; and at the back part of this portion of the fissure, the anterior curved portion of J the corpus callosum descends to the base of the brain. The corpus callosum terminates at the base of the brain by a concave margin, which is connected with the tuber cinereum through the intervention of a thin layer of grey substance, the lamina cinerea. This may be exposed by gently raising and drawing back the optic commissure. A broad white band may be observed on each side, passing from the under surface of the corpus callosum backwards and outwards, to the commencement of the fissure of Sylvius; these bands are called ! the peduncles of the corpus callosum. Laterally, the corpus callosum extends into the anterior lobe. The lamina cinerea is a thin layer of grey substance, extending backwards above the optic commissure from the termination of the corpus callosum to the tuber cinereum; it is continuous on either side with the grey matter of the anterior perforated space, and forms the anterior part of the inferior boundary of the third ventricle. The olfactory nerve, with its bulb, is seen on either side of the longitudinal fissure, upon the under surface of each anterior lobe. The fissure of Sylvius separates the anterior and middle lobes, and lodges the