xlvii CAKTILAGE. The matrix is often arranged in the form of a concentric ring around the cartilage-cell, forming what is described by some authors as the cartilage-capsule. The articular cartilages, the temporary cartilages, and the costal car- tilages, are all of the hyaline variety. They present minute differences in the size and shape of their cells, and in the arrangement of the matrix. In the articular cartilages, which show no tendency to ossification, the matrix is finely granular under a high power; the cells and nuclei are small, and are disposed parallel to the surface in the superficial part, while nearer to the bone they become vertical. Articular cartilages have a tendency to split in a vertical direction, probably from some peculiarity in the intimate structure, or arrangement of the component parts, of the matrix. In disease this tendency to a fibrous splitting becomes very manifest. Articular cartilage in the adult is not covered by perichondrium, at least on its free surface, where it is exposed to friction, though an epithelial layer can be traced in the foetus over the whole surface of the cartilage, and in the adult over a small part of its circumference, continuous with the epithelium of the synovial membrane. This is probably the remains of an investing membrane which is worn away in after-life by the action of the joint. Articular cartilage forms a thin incrustation upon the joint- surfaces of the bones, and its elasticity enables it to break the force of any concussion, whilst its smoothness affords ease and freedom of move- ment. It varies in thickness according to the shape of the bone on which it lies ; where this is convex, the cartilage is thickest over the convexity where the greatest pressure is received, and the reverse is the case in the concavities of the joints. Articular cartilage appears to imbibe its nutri- ment partly from the vessels of the neighbouring synovial membrane, partly from those of the bone upon which it is implanted. Mr. Toynbee has shown that the minute vessels of the cancellous tissue, as they approach the articular lamella, dilate, and, forming arches, return into the substances of the bone. Temporary cartilage, and the process of its ossification, will be described with bone. In the costal cartilages the cells and nuclei are large, and the matrix has a tendency to fibrous striation, especially in old age. These carti- lages also are very prone to ossify. In the thickest parts of the costal cartilages a few large vascular channels may be detected. This appears at first sight an exception to the statement that cartilage is a non-vascular tissue, but it is not so really, for the vessels give no branches to the cartilage-substance itself, and the channels may rather looked upon as involutions of the perichondrium. The ensiform Fig. XI.—Costal cartilage from a man seventy- six years of age, showing the development of fibrous structure in the matrix. In several portions of the specimen, two or three gene- rations of cells are seen enclosed in a parent cell-wall. High power.