]i6 THE SKELETON. at its point of junction with the posterior is the tuberosity of the ischium. The internal border is thin, and forms the outer circumference of the obturator foramen. The tuberosity presents for examination an external lip, an internal lip, and an intermediate space. The external lip gives attachment to the Quadratus femoris, and part of the Adductor magnus muscles. The inner lip is bounded by a sharp ridge, for the attachment of a falciform prolongation of the great sacro-sciatic liga- ment ; it presents a groove on the inner side of this for the lodgment of the internal pudic vessels and nerve ; and, more anteriorly, has attached the Trans versus perinei and Erector penis muscles. The intermediate surface presents four distinct impressions. Two of these, seen at the front part of the tuberosity, are rough, elongated, and separated from each other by a prominent ridge ; the outer one gives attachment to the Adductor magnus, the inner one to the great sacro-sciatic ligament. Two, situated at the back part, are smooth, larger in size, and separated by an oblique ridge : from the upper and outer arises the Semi-membranosus; from the lower and inner, the Biceps and Semi-tendinosus. The uppermost part of the tuberosity gives attachment to the Gemellus inferior. The ramus, or ascending ramus, is the thin flattened part of the ischium, which ascends from the tuberosity upwards and inwards, and joins the ramus of the pubes —their point of junction being indicated in the adult by a rough eminence. The outer surface of the ramus is rough, for the attachment of the Obturator externus muscle, also some fibres of the Adductor magnus, and of the Gracilis ; its inner surface forms part of the anterior wall of the pelvis. Its inner border is thick, rough, slightly everted, forms part of the outlet of the pelvis, and serves for the attachment of the cms penis. Its outer border is thin and sharp, and forms part of the inner margin of the obturator foramen. The Pubes forms the anterior part of the os innominatum ; it is divisible into a horizontal ramus or body, and a perpendicular ramus. The body, or horizontal ramus, presents for examination two extremities, an outer and an inner, and four surfaces. The outer extremity, the thickest part of the bone, forms one-fifth of the cavity of the acetabulum ; it presents, above, a rough eminence, the ilio-pectineal, which serves to indicate the point of junction of the ilium and pubes. The inner extremity is the symphysis ; it is oval, covered by eight or nine transverse ridges, or a series of nipple-like processes arranged in rows, separated by grooves; they serve for the attachment of the interarticular fibro-cartilage, placed between it and the opposite bone. The upper surface, triangular in form, wider externally than internally, is bounded behind by a sharp ridge, the pectineal line, or linea ilio-pectinea, which, running outwards, marks the brim of the true pelvis. The surface of bone in front of the pubic portion of the linea ilio-pectinea, serves for the attachment of the Pectineus muscle. This ridge terminates internally at a tubercle, which projects forwards, and is called the spine of the pubes. The portion of bone included between the spine and inner extre- mity of the pubes is called the crest; it serves for the attachment of the Rectus, Pyramidalis, and conjoined tendon of the Internal oblique and Transversalis. The point of junction of the crest with the symphysis is called the angle of the pubes. The inferior surface presents, externally, a broad and deep oblique groove, for the passage of the obturator vessels and nerve ; and, internally, a sharp margin, which forms part of the circumference of the obturator foramen. Its external surface, flat and compressed, serves for the attachment of muscles. Its internal surface, convex from above downwards, concave from side to side, is smooth, and forms part of the anterior wall of the pelvis. The descending ramus of the pubes passes outwards and downwards, becoming thinner and narrower as it descends, and joins with the ramus of the ischium. Its external surface is rough, for the atttachment of muscles ; the Adductor longus above, the Adductor brevis below; the Gracilis along its inner border, the Com- pressor urethrae towards its internal aspect ; and a portion of the Obturator externus where it enters into the formation of the foramen of that name. Its inner surface