ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 640 surfaces, so as to form rows, which radiate from the centre towards the circum- ference of the lobule. These cells are probably the chief agents in the secretion of the bile. Biliary ducts. The precise mode of origin of the biliary duct is uncertain. Mr. Kiernan's original view, which is supported by the researches of Dr. Beale, is that the ducts commence within the lobules, in a plexiform network (lobular biliary plexus), in which the hepatic cells lie. According to Henle, Handheld Jones, and Kolliker, the cells are packed in the interspaces of the capillary plexus, and, by means of temporary communications, transmit their contents into the minute bile-ducts which originate in the spaces betiveen the lobules, never entering within them. The ducts form a plexus (interlobular) between the lobules ; and the interlobular branches unite and form vaginal branches, which lie in the portal canals, with branches of the portal vein and hepatic duct. The ducts finally form two large trunks, which leave the liver at the transverse fissure, and the union of these is the hepatic duct. The Portal vein, on entering the liver at the transverse fissure, divides into primary branches, which are contained in the portal canals, together with branches of the hepatic artery and duct, and the nerves and lymphatics. In the larger portal canals, the vessels are separated from the parietes, andjoined to each other, by a loose cellular web, the capsule of Glisson. The veins, as they lie in the portal canals, give off vaginal branches, which form a plexus (vaginal plexus) in Glisson's capsule. From this plexus, and from the portal vein itself, small branches are given off, which pass between the lobules (interlobular veins) ; these cover the entire surface of the lobules, excepting their bases. The lobular branches are derived from the interlobular veins: they penetrate into the lobules, and form a capillary plexus within them. From the plexus the intralobular vein arises. The Hepatic artery appears destined chiefly for the nutrition of the coats of the large vessels, the ducts, and the investing membranes of the liver. It enters the liver at the transverse fissure, with the portal vein and hepatic duct, and ramifies with these vessels through the portal canals. It gives off vaginal branches, which ramify in the capsule of Glisson ; and other branches, which are distributed to the coats of the vena portas and hepatic duct. From the vaginal plexus, inter- lobular branches are given off, which ramify through the interlobular fissures, a few branches being distributed to the lobules. Kiernan supposes that the branches of the hepatic artery terminate in a capillary plexus, which communicates with the branches of the vena porta3. The Hepatic veins commence in the interior of each lobule by a plexus, the branches of which converge to form the intralobular vein. The intralobular vein passes through the centre of the lobule, and leaves it at its base to terminate in a sublobular vein. The sublobular veins unite with neighbouring branches to form larger veins; and these join to form the large hepatic trunks, which terminate in the vena cava. 348. A transverse section of a small portal canal and its vessels, after Kiernan. 1. Portal vein ; 2. inter- lobular branches; 3. branches of the vein, termed, by Mr. Kiernan, vaginal, also giving off interlobular branches; 4. hepatic duct; 5. he- patic artery.