ARCH OF AORTA. 327 Relations. The ascending part of the arch is covered at its commencement by the trunk of the pulmonary artery and. the right auricular appendix, and, higher up, is separated from the sternum by the pericardium, some loose areolar tissue, and the remains of the thymus gland; behind, it rests upon the right pulmonary vessels and root of the right lung. On the right side, it is in relation with the superior vena cava and right auricle ; on the left side, with the pulmonary artery. Plan of the Relations of the Ascending Part of the Arch. In Front. Pulmonary artery. Right auricular appendix. Pericardium. Remains of thymus gland. Right side. / \ Left side. Superior cava. f ^Lentoe*' I Pulmonary artery. Right auricle. Behind. Right pulmonary vessels. tPfendt***. Root of right lung. Transverse Part of the Arch. The second or transverse portion of the arch commences at the upper border of the second costo-sternal articulation of the right side in front, and passes from right to left, and from before backwards, to the left side of the third dorsal vertebra behind.* Its upper border is usually about an inch below the upper margin of the sternum. Relations. Its anterior surface is covered by the left pleura and lung, and crossed towards the left side by the left pneumogastric and phrenic nerves, and cardiac branches of the sympathetic. Its posterior surface lies on the trachea, just above its bifurcation, on the great cardiac plexus, the oesophagus, thoracic duct, and left recurrent laryngeal nerve. Its upper border is in relation with * As regards the portion of the dorsal spine with which the transverse part of the arch of the aorta is in contact I am indebted to Mr. Bennett, late demonstrator of Anatomy at St. George's Hospital for the following observation :— ' In twelve subjects examined successively in the post-mortem room of the Hospital, in whom the vessels were healthy, the following was the result as regards the highest point on the vertebral column touched by the arch of the aorta. In nine it'was opposite some part of the third dorsal vertebra; in one opposite the disc between the third and fourth, in one opposite the disc between the second and third, and in one opposite the second, dorsal vertebra.' Mr. J. Wood gives the following account of the relations and extent of the arch of the aorta, as the result of his observations on thirty-two subjects, fourteen male and eighteen female, in whom an antero-posterior vertical section of the spinal column from top to bottom had been made, with the viscera in situ. The cardiac opening of the aorta lies in a horizontal plane drawn through the centre of the third bone of the sternum, passing midway between the third and fourth rib-cartilages, and emerging behind about the tip of the sixljh, darsaJ spinnns.riror'ess. The highest point of the aortic arch lies from three-quarters of an inch to an inch from the posterior surface of the second bone of the sternum, close to its right border, and to the inner side of the joint between the second right rib-cartilage and the sternum. It approaches the lower border of the left side of the fourth dorsal vertebra, and first touches the spine usually about the intervertebral substance between the fourth and fifth vertebrae. It then assumes a more vertical direction, and lies against the left side of the body ot the fifth dorsal vertebra, which is, in fact, the uppermost vertebra which shows on its body the impression or flat- tening produced by contact with the aorta (Journ. of An at. and JPhys. vol. iii.) This anatomist accordingly puts the lower two portions of the arch one vertebra lower than the account in the text, and he supports his observations by those of Pirogoff.