526 SPINAL NERVES. Deep Branches of the Cervical Plexus. Internal Series. The communicating branches consist of several filaments, which pass from the loop between the first and second cervical nerves in front of the atlas to the pneumogastric, hypoglossal, and sympathetic. Muscular branches supply the Anterior recti and Rectus lateralis muscles ; they proceed from the first cervical nerve, and from the loop formed between it and the second. The Gommunicans Noni (fig. 276) consists usually of two filaments, one being- derived from the second, and the other from the third cervical. These filaments pass vertically downwards on the outer side of the internal jugular vein, cross in front of the vein a little below the middle of the neck, and form a loop with the descendens noni in front of the sheath of the carotid vessels. Occasionally, the junction of these nerves takes place within the sheath. The Phrenic Nerve (internal respiratory of Bell) arises from the third and fourth cervical nerves, and receives a communicating branch from the fifth. It descends to the root of the neck, lying obliquely across the front of the Scalenus anticus, passes over the first part of the subclavian artery, between it^ and the subclavian vein, and, as it enters the chest, crosses the internal mammary artery near its root. Within the chest, it descends nearly vertically in front of the root of the lung, and by the side of the pericardium, between it and the mediastinal portion of the pleura, to the Diaphragm, where it divides into branches, which separately pierce that muscle, and are distributed to its under surface. ^ The two phrenic nerves differ in their length, and also in their relations at the upper part of the thorax. The right nerve is situated more deeply, and is shorter and more vertical in direction than the left; it lies on the outer side of the right vena innominata and superior vena cava. The left nerve is rather longer than the right, from the inclination of the heart to the left side, and from the Diaphragm being lower on this than on the opposite side. At the upper part of the thorax, it crosses in front of the arch of the aorta to the root of the lung. Each nerve supplies filaments to the pericardium and pleura, and near the chest is joined by a filament from the sympathetic, by another derived from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves, and occasionally, by one from the union of the descendens noni with the spinal nerves: this filament is found, according to Swan, only on the left side. From the right nerve, one or two filaments pass to join in a small ganglion with phrenic branches of the solar plexus ; and branches from this ganglion are distributed to the hepatic plexus, the suprarenal capsule, and inferior vena cava. From the left nerve, filaments pass to join the phrenic plexus, but without any ganglionic enlargement. Deep Branches of the Cervical Plexus. External Series. Communicating branches. The cervical plexus communicates with the spinal accessory nerve, in the substance of the Sterno-mastoid muscle, in the occipital triangle, and beneath the Trapezius. Muscular branches are distributed to the Sterno-mastoid, Levator anguli scapulas, Scalenus medius and Trapezius. The branch for the Sterno-mastoid is derived from the second cervical, the Levator anguli scapulas receiving branches from the third, and the Trapezius branches from the third and fourth. Posterior Branches of the Cervical Nerves. The posterior branches of the cervical nerves, with the exception of those of the first two, pass backwards, and divide, behind the posterior Intertransverse muscles, into external and internal branches.