379 ULNAR. The radialis indicis arises close to the preceding, descends between tho Abductor indicis and Adductor pollicis, and r^uns_along^tlie radial side of the index finger to its extremity, where it anastomoses with the collateral digital artery from the superficial palmar, arch. At the lower border of the Adductor pollicis, this vessel anastomoses with the princeps pollicis, and gives a communicating branch to the superficial palmar arch. The perforating arteries, three in number, pass backwards between the heads of the last three Dorsal interossei muscles, to inosculate with the dorsal interosseous arteries. The palmar interosseous, three or four in number, are branches of the deep palmar arch; they run forwards upon the Interossei muscles, and anastomose at the clefts of the fingers with the digital branches of the superficial arch. -_. [ %, Ulnar Artery. The Ulnar Artery, the larger of the two subdivisions of the brachial, commences a little below the bend of the elbow, and crosses the inner side of the forearm obliquely inwards, to the commencement of its lower half; it then runs along its ulnar border to the wrist, crosses the annular ligament on the radial side of the pisiform bone, and passes across the palm of the hand, forming the superficial palmar arch, which sometimes terminates by inosculating with the superficialis volae. Relations in the Forearm. In its upper half, it is deeply seated, being covered by all the superficial Flexor muscles, excepting the Flexor carpi ulnaris ; it is crossed by the median_.nerve? which lies to its inner side for about an inch, and it lies upon the Brachialis anticus and Flexor profundus digitorum muscles. In the lower half of the forearm, it lies upon the Flexor profundus, being covered by the integument, the superficial and deep fascia?, and is placed between the Flexor carpi ulnaris and Flexor sublimis digitorum muscles. It is accompanied by two venas comites; the ulnar nerve lies on its inner side for the lower two-thirds of its extent, and a small branch from the nerve descends on the lower part of the vessel to the palm of the hand. Plan of Relations of the Ulnar Artery in the Forearm. In front. (J.-^u1<j-JC^..C.Um^-) Superficial flexor muscles. Median nerve. Superficial and deep fasciae. j- Upper half. Lower half. Outer side. Flexor sublimis digitorum. Inner side. Flexor carpi ulnaris. Ulnar nerve (lower two-thirds). Behind. Brachialis anticus. Flexor profundus digitorum. At the wrist (fig. 219), the ulnar artery is covered by the integument and fascia, and lies upon the anterior annular ligament. On its inner side is the pisiform bone. Tne ulnar nerve lies at the inner side, and somewhat behind the artery. In the palm of the hand, the continuation of the ulnar artery is called the superficial palmar arch; it passes obliquely outwards to the interspace between the ball of the thumb and the index finger, where it occasionally anastomoses with the superficialis voire, and a branch from the radialis indicis^ thus completing