VASCULAR SYSTEM OF FCBTUS. 659 triclc, will be exposed at tins point. The layers of fibres successively met with have a similar arrangement; the more superficial and longer turning inwards, and including the deeper and shorter bands. All these fibres ascend and spread out upon the inner surface of the ventricles, forming the walls, the septum, and the musculi papillares, which project from these cavities ; and they are finally inserted into the auriculo-ventricular fibrous rings directly, or indirectly, through the chordae tendineae. Of these spiral fibres, some enter at the interventricular furrows, and surround either ventricle singly; others pass across the furrows and embrace both cavities. On tracing those which form the vortex back into the interventri- cular septum, they are found to be interlaced with similar fibres from the right ventricle, and ascend vertically upon the right side of the septum, as far as its base, in the form of a long and broad band. Circular fibres. The circular fibres are situated deeply in the substance of the heart; towards the base they enter the anterior and posterior longitudinal furrows, so as to include each cavity singly, or, passing across them, surround both ventricles, more fibres passing across the posterior than the anterior furrow. They finally ascend in the substance of the ventricle, to be inserted into the fibrous rings at its base. Vessels and Nerves. The arteries supplying the heart, are the left or anterior and right or posterior coronary (p. 330). The veins accompany the arteries, and terminate in the right auricle. They are the great cardiac vein, the small, or anterior cardiac veins, and the venae cordis minimal {yenai Thebesii) (p. 447). The lymphatics terminate in the thoracic and right lymphatic ducts. The nerves are derived from the cardiac plexuses, which are formed partly from the cranial nerves, and partly from the sympathetic. They are freely distributed both on the surface, and in the substance of the heart; the separate filaments being furnished with small ganglia.* Pecultaeities in the Vasculab System of the Fcettjs. The chief peculiarities in the heart of the foetus, are the direct communication between the two auricles through the foramen ovale, and the large size of the Eustachian valve. There are also several minor peculiarities. Thus, the position of the heart is vertical until the fourth month, when it commences to assume an oblique direction. Its size is also very considerable, as compared with the body, the proportion at the second month being as t to 50: at birth it is as 1 to 120: whilst, in the adult, the average is about 1 to 160. At an early period of foetal life, the auricular portion of the heart is larger than the ventricular, the right auricle being more capacious than the left; but, towards birth, the ventricular portion becomes the larger. The thickness of both ventricles is, at first, about equal; but, towards birth, the left becomes much the thicker of the two. The foramen ovale is situated at the lower and back part of the septum aurion- larmn, forming a communication between the auricles. It attains its greatest size at the sixth month. The Eustachian valve is developed from the anterior border of the inferior vena cava at its entrance into the auricle. It is directed upwards on the left side of the opening of this vein, and serves to direct the blood from the inferior vena cava through the foramen ovale into the left auricle. The peculiarities in the arterial system of the foetus are the communication between the pulmonary artery and descending part of the arch of the aorta, by means of the ductus arteriosus, and the communication between the internal iliac arteries and the placenta, by means of the umbilical arteries. The ductus arteriosus is a short tube, about half an inch in length at birth, { ^ * For full and accurate descriptions of the nerves and ganglia of the heart, the student is referred to Dr. R. Lee's papers on the subject. v v 2