Ixxxviii GENERAL ANATOMY. valves are formed of a thin layer of fibrous tissue, lined on both surfaces with scaly epithelium. Their form is semilunar, they are attached by their convex edge to the sides of the vessel, the concave edge being free, and directed along the course of the contained current. Usually, two such valves, of equal Fig. XXXVII.—Transverse sec- size, are found opposite one another ; but occasionally exceptions occur, especially at or near the anastomoses of lymphatic vessels. Thus one valve may be of very rudimentary size, and the other increased in proportion. In other cases, the semilunar flaps have been found directed transversely across the vessel, instead of obliquely, so as to impede the circu- lation in both directions, but not to completely arrest it in either ; or the semilunar flaps, taking the same direction, have been found united on one side, so as to form, by their union, a transverse septum, having a partial transverse slit ; and sometimes the flap is constituted of a circular fold, attached to the entire circumference of the vessel, and having in its centre a circular or elliptical aperture, like the ileo-C88cal valve. The valves in the lymphatic vessels are placed at much shorter intervals than in the veins. They are most numerous near the lymphatic glands, and they are found more frequently in the lymphatics of the neck and upper extremity, than in the lower. The wall of the lymphatics, imme- diately above the point of attachment of each segment of a valve, is expanded into a pouch or sinus, which gives to these vessels, when distended, the knotted or beaded appearances which they present. Valves are wanting in the vessels composing the plexiform network in which the lymphatics usually originate on the surface of the body. Besides this plexiform commencement, however, there are other modes of origin of the lymphatics, for those of the intestinal villi arise sometimes by closed extremities ; and the lymphatics which arise in the interior of the organs (as in the glands to be presently described) originate in irregular spaces, lymph-sinuses, or lacunse. There is no satisfactory evidence to prove that any natural communica- tion exists between the lymphatics of glandular organs and their ducts, or between the lymphatics and the capillary vessels. With respect to the structure of the lymphatic glands, there are some points which are certain, while others must be allowed to be doubtful. It is certain that a number of vessels enter them at various points of their circumference (afferent vessels), and that one or two vessels leave them (efferent vessels), usually at a definite spot, the hilum. Further, that the external coats of these vessels are continuous with an envelope of fibrous tissue, which constitutes the capsule of the gland, and that all parts of the gland are freely supplied with capillary blood-vessels. The intimate structure, however, of the gland, is a matter of some doubt. In the original edition of this work, the description of Hewson was adopted, tiou through the coats of the thoracic duct of man. Mag- nified 30 times, a, Epithe- lium, striated lamellae, and inner elastic coat; b, longitudi- nal connective tissue of the middle coat; c, transverse muscles of the same; d, tu- nica adventitia, with e, the longitudinal muscular fibres.