THE NOSE. 567 beneatli the mucous membrane, arid extend from the apex backwards to the hyoid bone, the individual fibres being attached in their course to the submucous and glandular structures. The inferior longitudinal fibres are formed by the Lingualis muscle, already described (p. 227). The transverse fibres are placed between the two preceding layers ; they are intermixed with a considerable quantity of adipose substance, and form the chief part of the substance of the organ. They are attached internally to the median fibrous septum; and, passing outwards, the posterior ones taking an arched course, are inserted into the dorsum and margins of the organ, intersecting the other muscular fibres. The arteries of the tongue are derived from the lingual, the facial, and ascending pharyngeal. The nerves of the tongue are three in number in each half: the gustatory branch of the fifth, which is distributed to the papilla? at the fore part and sides of the tongue ; the lingual branch of the glosso-pharyngeal, which is distributed to the mucous membrane at the base and side of the tongue, and to the papillee circumvallatse; and the hypoglossal nerve, which is distributed to the muscular substance of the tongue. The two former are nerves of common sensation and of taste; the latter is the motor nerve of the tongue. The Nose. The Nose is the special organ of the sense of smell: by means of the peculiar properties of its nerves, it protects the lungs from the inhalation of deleterious gases, and assists the organ of taste in discriminating the properties of food. The organ of smell consists of two parts, one external, the nose ; the other internal, the nasal fossas. The nose is the more anterior and prominent part of the organ of smell. It is of a triangular form, directed vertically downwards, and projects from the centre of the face, immediately above the upper lip. Its summit, or root, is connected directly with the forehead. Its inferior part, the base of the nose, presents two 297, 298.—Cartilnges of the Nose, elliptical orifices, the nostrils, separated from each other by an antero-posterior septum, the columna. The margins of these orifices are provided with a number of stiff hairs, or vibrissas, which arrest the passage of foreign substances carried with the current of air intended for respiration. The lateral surfaces of the noso