THE PHARYNX. 613 drachms. It is covered by the integument, Platysma, deep cervical fascia, and the body of the lower jaw, corresponding to a depression on the inner surface of that bone; and lies upon the Mylo-hyoid, Hyo-glossus, and Stylo-glossus muscles, a portion of the gland passing beneath the posterior border of the Mylo-hyoid. In front of it is the anterior belly of the Digastric ; behind, it is separated from the parotid gland by the stylo-maxillary ligament, and from the sublingual gland in front by the Mylo-hyoid muscle. The facial artery lies imbedded in a groove in its posterior and upper border. The duct of the submaxillary gland (Wharton's) is about two inches in length, and its walls are much thinner than those of the parotid duct. It opens by a narrow orifice on the summit of a small papilla, at the side of the frasnum linguae. Traced from thence, it is found to pass between the sublingual gland and the Genio-hyo-glossus muscle, then backwards and outwards between the Mylo-hyoid, and the Hyo-glossus and Genio-hyo-glossus muscles, and beneath the gustatory nerve, to the deep portion of the gland, where it commences by numerous branches. Vessels and Nerves. The arteries supplying the submaxillary gland are branches of the facial and lingual. Its veins follow the course of the arteries. The nerves are derived from the submaxillary ganglion, from the mylo-hyoid branch of the inferior dental, and from the sympathetic. The Sublingual gland is the smallest of the salivary glands. It is situated beneath the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth, at the side of the frasnum linguae, in contact with the inner surface of the lower jaw, close to the symphysis. It is narrow, flattened, in shape somewhat like an almond, and weighs about a drachm. It is in relation, above, with the mucous membrane ; below, with the Mylo-hyoid muscle ; in front, with the depression on the side of the symphysis of the lower jaw, and with its fellow of the opposite side ; behind, with the deep part of the submaxillary gland ; and internally, with the Genio-hyo-glossus, from which it is separated by the lingual nerve and Wharton's duct. Its excretory ducts (ductus Biviniani), from eight to twenty in number, open separately into the mouth, on the elevated crest of mucous membrane, caused by the projection of the gland, on either side of the frasnum linguae. One or more join to form a tube which opens into the Whartonian duct: this is called the duct of Bartholine. Vessels and Nerves. The sublingual gland is supplied with blood from the sublingual and submental arteries. Its nerves are derived from the gustatory. Structure. The salivary are conglomerate glands, consisting of the numerous lobes, which are made up of smaller lobules, connected together by dense areolar tissue, vessels, and ducts. Each lobule consists of numerous closed vesicles, which open into a common duct: the wall of each vesicle is formed of a delicate base- ment membrane, lined by epithelium, and covered on its outer surface with a dense capillary network. In the submaxillary and sublingual glands, the lobes are larger and more loosely united than in the parotid. The Pharynx. The Pharynx is that part of the alimentary canal which is placed behind the nose, mouth, and larynx. It is a musculo-membranous sac, somewhat conical in form, with the base upwards, and the apex downwards, extending from the under surface of the skull to the cricoid cartilage in front, and the fifth cervical vertebra behind. The pharynx is about four inches and a half in length, and broader in the transverse than in the antero-posterior diameter. Its greatest breadth is opposite the cornua of the hyoid bone; its narrowest point at its termination in the oesophagus. It is limited, above, by the basilar process of the occipital bone ; beloiv, it is continuous with the oesophagus ; posteriorly, it is connected by loose areolar tissue with the cervical portion of the vertebral column, and the Longi