57i SCLEROTIC AND CORNEA. that the antero-posterior diameter of the eyeball, which measures about an inch, exceeds the transverse diameter by about a line. The segment of the larger sphere, which forms about five-sixths of the globe, is opaque, and formed by the sclerotic, the tunic of protection to the eyeball; the smaller sphere, which forms the remaining sixth, is transparent, and formed by the cornea. The axes of the eyeballs are nearly parallel, and do not correspond to the axes of the orbits, which are directed outwards. The optic nerves follow the direction of the axes of the orbits, and enter the eyeball a little to their inner or nasal side. The eyeball is composed of several investing tunics, and of fluid and solid refracting media, called humours. The tunics are three in number :— 1. Sclerotic and Cornea. 2. Choroid, Iris, and Ciliary Processes. 3. Retina. The refracting media, or humours, are also three:— Aqueous. Crystalline (lens) and Capsule. Vitreous. The sclerotic and cornea form the external tunic of the eyeball; they are essentially fibrous in structure, the sclerotic being opaque, and forming the poste- rior five-sixths of the globe ; the cornea, which forms the remaining sixth, being transparent. The Sclerotic (a^X-npog, hard) (fig. 301) has received its name from its extreme density and hardness ; it is a firm, unyielding, fibrous membrane, serving to main- 301.—A Vertical Section of the Eyeball. (Enlarged.) tain the form of the globe. It is much thicker behind than in front. Its external surface is of a white colour, quite smooth, except at the points where the Recti and Obliqui muscles are inserted into it, and covered, for part of its extent, by the conjunctival membrane ; hence the whiteness and brilliancy of the front of the eyeball. Its inner surface is stained of a brown colour, marked by grooves, in which are lodged the ciliary nerves, and connected by an exceedingly fine cel- lular tissue (lamina fusca) with the outer surface of the choroid. Behind, it is pierced by the optic nerve a little to its inner or nasal side, and is continuous with