727 FEMORAL HERNIA. In other cases, and this is the more frequent variety, the intestine is cither forced through the fibres of the conjoined tendon, or the tendon is gradually dis- tended in front of it, so as to form a complete investment for it. The intestine then enters the lower end of the inguinal canal, escapes at the external ring lying on the inner side of the cord, and receives additional coverings from the superficial fascia and the integument. This form of hernia has the same coverings; as the oblique variety, excepting that the conjoined tendon is substituted for the Cremaster, and the infundibulum fascia is replaced by a part of the general fascia transversalis. The seat of stricture in both varieties of direct hernia is most frequently at the neck of the sac, or at the external ring. In that form of hernia which perforates the conjoined tendon, it not unfrequently occurs at the edges of the fissure through which the gut passes. In dividing the stricture, the incision should in all cases be directed upwards. If the hernial protrusion passes into the inguinal canal, but does not escape from the external abdominal ring, it forms what is called incomplete direct hernia. This form of hernia is usually of small size, and in corpulent persons very difficult of detection. Direct inguinal hernia is of much less frequent occurrence than the oblique, their comparative frequency being, according to Cloquet, as one to five. It occurs far more frequently in men than women, on account of the larger size of the external ring in the former sex. It differs from the oblique in its smaller size and globular form, dependent most probably on the resistance offered to its progress by the transversalis fascia and conjoined tendon. It differs also in its position, being placed over the pubes, and not in the course of the inguinal canal. The epigastric artery runs on the outer or iliac side of the neck of the sac, and the spermatic cord along its external and posterior side, not directly behind it, as in oblique inguinal hernia. SURGICAL ANATOMY OF FEMORAL HERNIA. The dissection of the parts comprised in the anatomy of femoral hernia should he per- formed, if possible, upon a female subject free from fat. The subject should lie upon its hack ; a block is first placed uuder the pelvis, the thigh everted, and the knee slightly bent, and retained in this position. An incision should then he made from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium along Poupart's ligament to the symphysis pubis; a second incision should be carried transversely across the thigh about six inches beneath the pre- ceding ; and these are to be connected together by a vertical one carried along the inner side of the thigh. These several incisions should divide merely the integumentj this is to he reflected outwards, when the superficial fascia will be exposed. The superficial fascia at the upper part of the thigh, consists of two layers, between which are found the cutaneous vessels and nerves, and numerous lym- phatic glands. • The superficial layer is a thick and dense cellulo-fibrous membrane, in the meshes of which is found a considerable amount of adipose tissue, varying in quantity in different subjects ; this layer may be traced upwards over Poupart's ligament to be continuous with the superficial fascia of the abdomen ; whilst below, and on the inner and outer sides of the limb, it is continuous with the superficial fascia covering the rest of the thigh. This layer should be detached by dividing it across in the same direction as the external incisions; its removal will be facilitated by commencing at the lower and inner angle of the space, detaching it at first from the front of the internal saphenous vein, and dissecting it off from the anterior surface of that vessel and its branches ; it should then be reflected outwards, in the same manner as the integument. The cutaneous vessels and nerves, and superficial inguinal glands are then exposed, lying upon the deep layer of the superficial fascia. These are the internal saphenous vein, and the superficial epigastric, superficial circumflex a ilii, and superficial external pudic vessels, as well as numerous lymphatics ascending with the saphenous vein to the inguinal glands.