688 URINARY ORGANS. As soon as the tubuli uriniferi enter the cortical substance (fig. 374), they become convoluted, and anastomose freely with each other; they are sometimes called the tubes of Ferrein. At the bases of the pyramids, the straight tubes are described as being collected into small conical bundles, the tortuous tubuli cor- responding to which are prolonged upwards into the cortical portion of the kidney as far as the surface, forming a number of small conical masses, which are named the pyramids of Ferrein, several of which correspond to each medullary cone and its corresponding portion of cortical substance. According to Mr. Bowman, the tubuli uriniferi commence in the cortical substance as small, dilated, membranous capsules, the capsules of the Malpighian bodies ; they also form loops, either by the junction of adjacent tubes, or, according to Toynbee, by the union of two branches proceeding from the same tube ; they have also been seen to arise by free closed extremities. The Malpighian bodies are found only in the cortical substance of the kidney. They are small round bodies, of a deep red colour, and of the average diameter of the T^o^h °f ai1 inch. Each body is composed of a vascular tuft enclosed in a thin membranous capsule, the dilated commencement of a uriniferous tubule. The vascular tuft consists of the ramifications of a minute artery, the Afferent vessel, which, after piercing the capsule, divides, in a radiated manner} into several branches, which ultimately terminate in a finer set of capillary vessels. From these, a small vein, the efferent vessel, proceeds; this pierces the capsule near the artery, and forms a close venous plexus, with the efferent vessels from other Malpighian bodies round the adjacent tubuli. The capsular dilatation of the Malpighian body is not always placed at the commencement of the tube; it may occupy one side (Gerlach); hence their sub- division into lateral or terminal. The membrane composing it is thicker than that of the tubule; the epithelium lining its inner surface is thin, and, in the frog, provided with cilia at the neck of the dilated portion ; but in the human subject cilia have not been detected. According to Mr. Bowman, the surface of the vascular tuft lies free and uncovered in the interior of its capsule ; but, according to Gerlach, it is covered with a thick layer of nucleated cells, similar to those lining the inner surface of the capsule. Ducts. The ureter, as it approaches the hilum, becomes dilated into a funnel- shaped membranous sac, the pelvis. It then enters the sinus, and subdivides usually into three prolongations, the infundibula; one placed at each extremity, and one in the middle of the organ ; these subdivide into from seven to thirteen smaller tubes, the calices, each of which embraces the base of one of the papillae. Sometimes a calix encloses two or more papilla?. The ureter, the pelvis, and the calices consist of three coats : fibrous, muscular, and mucous. The external or fibro-elastic coat is continuous, round the bases of the papilla, with the tunica propria investing the surface of the organ. The muscular coat is placed between the fibrous and mucous coats. It consists of an external or longitudinal, and an internal or circular stratum. The internal or mucous coat invests the papillae of the kidney, and is continued into the orifices upon their surfaces. It is lined by epithelium of the spheroidal kind. Vessels and nerves. The renal artery is large in proportion to the size of the organ which it supplies. Each vessel divides into four or five branches, which enter the hilum, and are invested by sheaths derived from the fibrous cap- sule ; they penetrate the substance of the organ between the papillae, and enter the cortical substance in the intervals between the medullary cones ; dividing and subdividing in their course towards the bases of the pyramids, where they form arches by their anastomoses ; from these arches, numerous vessels are distributed to the cortical substance, some of which enter the Malpighian corpuscles ; whilst others form a capillary network round the uriniferous tubes. The veins of the kidney commence upon the surface of the organ, where they have a stellate arrangement; they pass inwards, and open into larger veins, which