531 INTERNAL CUTANEOUS. 284.—Cutaneous Nerves of Right Upper .Extremity. Posterior View. The cutaneous portion of the nerve passes behind the median cephalic vein, and divides opposite the elbow-joint, into an anterior and a posterior branch. The anterior branch descends along the radial border of the fore-arm to the wrist. It is here placed in front of the radial artery, and, piercing the deep fascia, accompanies that vessel to the back of the wrist. It communicates with a branch from the radial nerve, and dis- tributes filaments to the integument of the ball of the thumb. The 'posterior branch is given off about the middle of the fore-arm, and passes downwards, along the back part of its radial side to the wrist. It supplies the integument of the lower third of the fore-arm, communicating with thej^djal nerve, and the external cutaneous branch oXjihe musculo-spiral. The Internal Cutaneous Nerve (fig. 285) is one of the smallest branches of the brachial plexus. It arises from the inner cord, in common with the ulnar and internal head of the median, and, at its commencement, is placed on the inner side of the brachial artery. It passes down the inner side of the arm, pierces the deep fascia with the basilic vein, about the middle of the limb, and, becoming cutaneous, divides into two branches. This nerve gives off, near the axilla, a cutaneous filament, which pierces the fascia, and supplies the integument cover- ing the Biceps muscle, nearly as far as the elbow. This filament lies a little ex- ternal to the common trunk, from which it arises. The anterior branch, the larger of the two, passes usually in front of, but occa- sionally behind^ the median basilic vein. It then descends on the anterior surface of the ulnar side of the fore-arm, distri- buting filaments to the integument as far as the wrist, and communicating with a cutaneous branch of the ulnar nerve. The posterior branch passes obliquely downwards on the inner side of_tho basilic vein, winds over the internal condyle of the humerus to the back of the fore-arm, and descends, on the posterior surface of its ulnar side, to a little below the middle, distributing filaments to the integument. It anastomoses above the elbow, with the lesser internal cutaneous, and above the wrist, with the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve (Swan). The Lesser Internal Cutaneous Nerve (nerve of Wrisberg) (fig. 285), is distri- buted to the integument on the inner side of the arm. It is the smallest of the branches of the brachial plexus, and usually arises from the inner cord, with the M M 2