129 TIBIA. aspect of the bone, is an eminence, the spinous process -of the tibia, surmounted by a prominent tubercle on each side, which gives attachment to the extremities of the semilunar fibro-cartilages ; in front and behind the spinous process is a rough depression for the attachment of the anterior and posterior crucial ligaments and the semilunar cartilages. The anterior surfaces of the tuberosities are continuous with one another, forming a single large surface, which is somewhat flattened: it is triangular, broad above, and perforated by large vascular foramina, narrow below, where it terminates in a prominent oblong elevation of large size, the tubercle of the tibia; the lower half of this tubercle is rough, for the attachment of the ligamentum patellee; the upper half is a smooth facet corresponding, in the recent state, with a bursa which separates the ligament from the bone. Posteriorly, the tuberosities are separated from each other hya, shallow depression, the popliteal notch, which gives attachment to the posterior crucial ligament. The posterior surface of the inner tuberosity presents a^deep transverse groove, for the insertion of the tendon of the Semimembranosus ; and the posterior surface of the outer one, a flat articular facet, nearly circular in form, directed downwards, backwards, and out- wards, for articulation with the fibula. The lateral surfaces are convex and rough : the internal one, the most prominent, gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament. The Shaft of the tibia is of a triangular prismoid form, broad above, gradually decreasing in size to the commencement of its lower fourth, its most slender part where fracture most frequently occurs ; it then enlarges again towards its lower extremity. It presents for examination three surfaces and three borders. The anterior border, the most prominent of the three, is called the crest of the tibia, or, in popular language, the shin ; it commences above at the tubercle, and terminates below at the anterior margin of the inner malleolus. This border is very prominent in the upper two-thirds of its extent, smooth and rounded below.? It presents a very flexuous course, being curved outwards above, and inwards below ; it gives attachment to the deep fascia of the leg. The internal border is smooth and rounded above and below, but more promi- nent in the centre ; it commences at the back part of the inner tuberosity, and terminates at the posterior border of the internal malleolus ; its upper third gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the knee, and to some fibres of the^ff Popliteus muscle ; its middle third, to some fibres of the Soleus and Flexor longusjl digitorum muscles. The external border is thin and prominent, especially its central part, and gives attachment to the interosseous membrane ; it commences above in front of the fibular articular facet, and bifurcates below, to form the boundaries of a triangular rough surface, for the attachment of the interosseous ligament, connecting the tibia and fibula. The internal surface is smooth, convex, and broader above than below ; its upper third, directed forwards and inwards, is covered by the aponeurosis derived from the tendon of the Sartorius, and by the tendons of the Gracilis and Semitendinosus, all of which are inserted nearly as far forwards as the anterior border; in the rest of its extent it is subcutaneous. The external surface is narrower than the internal; its upper two-thirds present a shallow groove for the attachment of the Tibialis anticus muscle ; its lower third is smooth, convex, curves gradually forwards to the anterior part of the bone, and is covered from within outwards by the tendons of the following muscles : Tibialis anticus, Extensor proprius pollicis, Extensor longus digitorum, Peroneus tertius. The posterior surface (fig. no) presents, at its upper part, a prominent ridge, the oblique line of the tibia, which extends from the back part of the articular facet for the fibula, obliquely downwards, to the internal border, at the junction of its upper and middle thirds. It marks the limit for the insertion of the Popliteus muscle, and serves for the attachment of the popliteal fascia, and part of the Soleus, Flexor longus digitorum, and Tibialis posticus muscles ; the triangular concave surface, above and to the inner side of this line, gives attachment to the Popliteus muscle. The middle third of the posterior surface is K