485 THE FORNIX. a white eminence, varying in size, placed between the hippocampus major and minor, at the junction of the posterior with the descending cornu. Like the hippo- campi, it is formed of white matter corresponding to one of the sulci, between two convolutions protruding into the cavity of the ventricle. The corpus fimbriatum is a continuation of the posterior pillar of the fornix, prolonged, as already mentioned, from the central cavity of the lateral ventricle. Fascia dentata. On separating the inner border of the corpus fimbriatum from the choroid plexus, and raising the edge of the former, a serrated band of grey substance, the edge of the grey substance of the middle lobe, will be seen beneath it: this is the fascia dentata. Correctly speaking, it is placed external to the cavity of the descending cornu. The transverse fissure is seen on separating the corpus fibriatum from the thalamus opticus. It is situated beneath the fornix, extending from the middle line behind, downwards on either side, to the end of the descending cornu, being bounded on one side by the fornix and the hemisphere, and on the other by the thalamus opticus. Through this fissure the pia mater passes from the exterior of the brain into the ventricles, to form the choroid plexuses. Where the pia mater projects into the lateral ventricle, beneath the edge of the fornix, it is covered by j a prolongation of the lining membrane, which excludes it from the cavity. The septum lucidum (fig. 264) forms the internal boundary of the lateral j ventricle. It is a thin, semi-transparent septum, attached, above, to the under surface of the corpus callosum ; below, to the anterior part of the fornix ; and, in i front of this, to the prolonged portion of the corpus callosum. It is triangular in ! form, broad in front, and narrow behind, its surfaces looking towards the cavities j of the ventricles. The septum consists of two laminse, separated by a narrow j interval, the fifth ventricle. Fifth Ventricle. Each lamina of the septum lucidum consists of an internal layer of white substance, covered by the lining membrane of the fifth ventricle ; and an outer layer of grey matter, covered by the lining membrane of the lateral ventricle. The cavity of the fifth ventricle is lined by a serous membrane, covered with epithelium, and contains fluid. In the foetus, and in some animals, this cavity communicates, below, with the third ventricle ; but in the adult, it forms a separate cavity. In cases of serous effusion into the ventricles, the septum is often found softened and partially broken down. The fifth ventricle may be exposed by cutting1 through the septum, and attached portion of the corpus callosum, with scissors ; after examining which, the corpus callosum should be cut across, towards its anterior part, and the two portions carefully dissected, the one forwards, the other backwards, when the fornix will be exposed. The fornix (figs. 264, 265) is a longitudinal lamella of white fibrous matter, situated beneath the corpus callosum, with which it is continuous behind, but separated from it in front by the septum lucidum. It may be described as consisting of two symmetrical halves, one for either hemisphere. These two portions are joined together in the middle line, where they form the body, but are separated from one another in front and behind ; forming the anterior and posterior crura. The tody of the fornix is triangular; narrow in front, broad behind. Its upper ; surface is connected, in the median line, to the septum lucidum in front, and the corpus callosum behind. Its under surface rests upon the velum interpositum, which separates it from the third ventricle, and the inner portion of the optic thalami. Its lateral edges form, on each side, part of the floor of the lateral ventricles, and are in contact with the choroid plexuses. The anterior crura arch downwards towards the base of the brain, separated from each other by a narrow interval. They are composed of white fibres, which descend through a quantity of grey matter in the lateral walls of the third ven- tricle, and are placed immediately behind the anterior commissure. At the base of the brain, the white fibres of each crus form a sudden curve upon themselves,