ANTERIOR BRACHIAL REGION. 273 and wrist joint. By its outer bonier, with the Pronator radii teres, and the radial vessels. By its inner border, with the Palmaris longus above, and the median nerve below. Mr. J. Wood describes a muscle occasionally found (6 times in 70 subjects) beneath the Plexor carpi radialis, and which he has named the Flexor carpi radialis brevis vel profundus. In the best marked specimen it arose from the outer side of the front surface of the radius, above the Pronator quadratus, and below the Plexor longus pollicis, and was inserted into the base of the middle metacarpal bone and os magnum ; but several variations are described, both in its origin and insertion. Mr. Norton has also found an instance of a similar muscle attached to the middle metacarpal bone. Journ. of Anat. and Phys. Nov. 1866, p. 55. The Palmaris Longus is a slender, fusiform muscle, lying on the inner side of the preceding. It arises from the inner condyle of the humerus by the common tendon, from the deep fascia, and the intermuscular septa, between it and the adjacent muscles. It terminates in a slender flattened tendon, which is inserted into the annular ligament, expanding to the end in the palmar fascia. Variations. This muscle is often absent; when present, it presents many varieties. Its fleshy belly is sometimes very long-, or may occupy the middle of the muscle, which is tendinous at either extremity ; or the Palmaris may be muscular at its lower extremity, its upper part being tendinous. Occasionally, there is a second Palmaris'longus placed on the inner side of the preceding-, terminating, below, partly in the annular ligament or fascia, and partly in the small muscles of the little finger. Relations. By its anterior surface, with the deep fascia. By its posterior surface, with the Plexor digitorum sublimis. Internally, with the Flexor carpi ulnaris. Externally, with the Flexor carpi radialis. The median nerve lies close to the tendon, just above the wrist, on its inner and post^rio-irsu]^ The Flexor Garjpi Ulnaris lies along the ulnar side of the forearm. It arises by two heads, separated by a tendinous arch, beneath which passes the ulnar nep&.ll and^ posterior ulnar recnrren^_axtejy. One head arises from the inner condyle of the humerus by the common tendon; the other, from the inner margin of the olecranon, by an aponeurosis from the upper two-thirds of the posterior border of the ulna, and from the intermuscular septum between it and the Flexor sublimis digitorum. The fibres terminate in a tendon, which occupies the anterior part of the lower half of the muscle, and is inserted into the pisiform bone, some fibres being prolonged to the annular ligament and base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. The uhmr -Avim-j Ii'pr on the outer side of the tendon of this muscle, in the lower two-thirds of the forearm ; the tendon forming a guide in tying the vessel in this situation. Relations. By its anterior surface, with the deep fascia, with which it is intimately connected for a considerable extent. By its posterior surface, with the Flexor sublimis, the Flexor profundus, the Pronator quadratus, and the ulnar vessels and nerve. By its outer or radial border with the Palmaris longus above, and the ulnar vessels and nerve below. The Flexor Digitorum Sublimis (perforatus) is placed beneath the preceding muscles, which therefore must be removed in order to bring its attachment into view. It is the largest of the muscles of the superficial layer, and arises by three heads. One head arises from, the internal condyle of the humerus.by the Common tendon, from the internal lateral ligament of the _elbow-joint, and from the inter- muscular septum common to it and the preceding muscles. The second head arises from the inner side of the coronoid process of the ulna, above the ulnar I origin of the Pronator radii teres (fig. 90). The third head arises from the oblique line of the radius, extending from the tubercle to the insertion of the Pronator radii teres. The fibres pass vertically downwards, forming a broad and thick muscle, which divides into four tendons about the middle of the forearm ; as these tendons pass beneath the annular ligament into the palm of the hand, they are arranged in pairs, the anterior pair corresponding to the middle and ring fingers ; the posterior I pair to the index and little fingers. The tendons diverge from one another as they pass onwards, and are finally inserted into the lateral margins of the second phalanges, about their centre. Opposite the base of the first phalanges, each T