693 BLADDER The lateral ligaments, broader and thinner than the preceding, arc attached to the lateral parts of the prostate, and to the sides of the base of the bladder. The urachus is the fibro-muscular cord already mentioned, extending between the snmmit of the bladder and the umbilicus. It is broad below, at its attachment to the bladder, and becomes narrower as it ascends. The false ligaments of the bladder are, two posterior, two lateral, and one superior. The two posterior pass forwards, in the male, from the sides of the rectum ; in the female, from the sides of the uretus, to the posterior and lateral aspect of the bladder : they form the lateral boundaries of the recto-vesical fold of peritoneum, and contain the obliterated hypogastric arteries, and the ureters, beside vessels and nerves. The two lateral ligaments are reflections of the peritoneum, from the iliac fossa3 to the sides of the bladder. The superior ligament is the prominent fold of peritoneum extending from the summit of the bladder to the umbilicus. It covers the urachus, and the obliterated hypogastric arteries. Structure. The bladder is composed of four coats: a serous, a muscular, a cellular, and a mucous coat. The serous coat is partial, and derived from the peritoneum. It invests the posterior surface, from opposite the termination of the two ureters to its summit, and is reflected from this point and from the sides, on to the abdominal and pelvic walls. The muscular coat consists of two layers of imstriped muscular fibre, an external layer, composed of longitudinal fibres, and an internal layer of circular fibres. "~ The longitudinal fibres are most distinct on the anterior and posterior surfaces of the organ. They arise in front, from the anterior ligaments of the bladder, from the neck of the bladder, and, in the male, from the adjacent portion of the prostate gland. They spread out, and form a plexiform mesh, on the anterior surface of the bladder, being continued over the posterior surface, and base of the organ to the neck, where they are inserted into the prostate, in the male, and into the vagina in the female. Other longitudinal fibres arise, in the male, from the sides of the prostate, and spread out upon the sides of bladder, intersecting with one another. The circular fibres are very thinly and irregularly scattered on the body of the organ ; but, towards its lower part, round the cervix and commencement of the urethra, they are disposed as a thick circular layer, forming the sphincter vesicas, which is continuous with the muscular fibres of the prostate gland. Two bands of oblique fibres, originating behind the orifices of the ureters, converge to the back part of the prostate gland, and are inserted, by means of a fibrous process, into the middle lobe of that organ. They are the muscles of the ureters, described by Sir C. Bell, who supposed that, during the contraction of the bladder, they served to retain the oblique direction of the ureters, and so prevent the reflux of urine into them. J. B. Pettigrew gives the following results at which he has arrived by his exquisite dis- sections of the muscular fibres of the bladder and prostate (Proc. Royal Soc. xv. 244). The muscular fibres of the bladder are arranged spirally, forming figure-of-8 loops, the superficial more longitudinal or drawn out, the deeper more circular or flattened. They are in four sets—an anterior and posterior, and a right and left lateral; the latter accessory and less fully developed. The fibres are arranged in seven strata, three external, three internal, and a middle, pursuing well-marked directions in each. The external and internal are the most oblique; their obliquity diminishes towards the central stratum, which is formed by the blending of their terminal or transverse portions. A close analogy is thus traced between the disposition of the muscular fibres of the bladder and those of the heart, as described by Pettigrew, in Philos. Trans. 1864; and he hints at similar structure in the stomach and uterus. The cellular coat consists of a layer of areolar tissue, connecting together the muscular and mucous coats, and intimately united to the latter.