210 MUSCLES AND FASCLE. The Rectus superior, the thinnest and narrowest of the fonr Recti, arises from the upper margin of the optic foramen, beneath the Levator Palpebral and Superior oblique, and from the fibrous sheath of the optic nerve ; and is inserted, by a ten- 149.—Muscles of the Eight Orbit. dinous expansion, into the sclerotic coat, about three or four lines from the margin of the cornea. Relations. By its topper silrface, with the Levator Palpebree. By its under surface, with the optic nerve, the ophthalmic artery, the nasal nerve, and the branch of the third nerve, which supplies it; and, in front, with the tendon of the Superior oblique, and the globe of the eye. The Inferior and Internal Recti arise by a common tendon (the ligament of Zinn), which is attached round the circumference of the oj3tic foramen, except at its upper and outer part. The External 150.—The relative position and attachment of the Muscles of the Left Eyeball. Rectus Su/pcrityr Le/iHitor J>aljoc b raSafe Tim' OUuftM s Supr.rio, Rc<u2 Rectus Inferior rectus has two heads: the upper one arises from the outer margin of the optic foramen, immediately beneath the Superior rectus; the lower head, partly from the ligament of 2jimi, and partly from a small pointed process of bone On the lower margin of the sphenoidal fissure. Each muscle passes forward in the position implied by its name, to be inserted, by a tendinous ex- pansion (the tunica albuginea), into the sclerotic coat, about three or four lines from the margin of the cornea» Between the two heads of the External rectus is a narrow interval, through which pass the third, nasal branch of the fifth, and sixth nerves, and the ophthalmic vein. Although nearly all these muscles present a common origin, and are inserted in a similar manner in the sclerotic coat, there are certain differences to be observed in them, as regards their length and breadth. The Internal Rectus is the broadest; the External, the longest; and the Superior, the thinnest and narrowest. The Superior Oblique is a fusiform muscle, placed at the upper and inner side of the orbit, internal to the Levator palpebral. It arises about a line above the inner margin of the optic foramen, and, passing forwards to the inner angle of the orbit, terminates in a rounded tendon, which plays in a ring or pulley, formed by fibrocartilaginous tissue attached to a depression beneath the internal angular process of the frontal bone, the contiguous surfaces of the tendon and ring beinr