346 ARTERIES. supplies the structures composing the chin, and anastomoses with the submental, inferior labial, and inferior coronary arteries. As the dental artery enters the foramen, it gives off a mylo-hyoid branch, which runs in the Mylo-hyoid groove, and ramifies on the under surface of the Mylo-hyoid muscle. The dental and incisor arteries during their course through the substance of the bone give off a few twigs which are lost in the cancellous tissue, and a series of branches which correspond in number to the roots of the teeth : these enter the minute apertures at the extremities of the fangs, and supply the pulp of the teeth. Branches of the Second, or Pterygoid Portion. Deep Temporal. Masseteric. Pterygoid. Buccal. These branches are distributed, as their names imply, to the muscles in the maxillary region. The deep temporal tranches, two in number, anterior and posterior, each occupy that part of the temporal fossa indicated by its name. Ascending between the temporal muscle and pericranium, they supply that muscle, and anastomose with the other temporal arteries ; the anterior branch communicating with the lachrymal through small branches which perforate the malar bone. The pterygoid branches, irregular in their number and origin, supply the Pterygoid muscles. The masseteric is a small branch which passes outwards above, the.sigmoid notch of the lower jaw, to the deep surface of the Masseter. It supplies that muscle, and anastomoses with the masseteric branches of the facial and with £he transverse facial artery. The buccal is a small branch which runs obliquely forwards between the Internal . pterygoid and the ramus of the jaw, to the outer surface of the Buccinator, to which it is distributed, anastomosing with branches of the facial artery. Branches of the Third, or Spheno-Maxillary Portion. Alveolar. 3^,H*efc#. Vidian, or H'&^^Jj. Infraorbital. V. \ $^Z&a*JL, Pterygopalatine. _ 4tJtCuM Posterior or Descending Palatine. ISTasal or Spheno-Palatine.\&famiu£ The alveolar is given off from the internal maxillary by a common branch with the infraorbital, and just as the trunk of the vessel is passing into the spheno- maxillary fossa. Descending upon the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone, it divides into numerous branches ; one, the_ superior dental, larger than the rest, supplies the molar and bicuspid teeth, its branches entering the foramina in the alveolar process ; some branches pierce the bone to supply the lining of the antrum, and others are continued forwards on the alveolar process to supply the gums. The infraorbital appears, from its direction, to be the continuation of the trunk of the internal maxillary. It arises from that vessel by a common trunk with the preceding branch, and runs along the infraorbital canal with the superior maxillary nerve, emerging upon the face at the infraorbital foramen, beneath the Levator labii superioris. Whilst contained in the canal, it gives off branches which ascend into the orbit, and supply the Inferior rectus and Inferior oblique muscles, and the lachrymal gland. Other branches descend through canals in the bone, to supply the mucous membrane of the antrum, and the front teeth of the upper jaw. On the face, it supplies the lachrymal sac, and inner angle of the orbit, anastomosing with the facial artery and nasal branch of the ophthalmic ; and other branches descend beneath the elevator of the upper lip, and anastomose with the transverse facial and buccal branches. The four remaining branches arise from that portion of the internal maxillary which is contained in the spheno-maxillary fossa.