ARTERIES. 404 surface of the sacrum, anastomosing with the posterior branches of the sacral arteries. The deep branch runs between the Gluteus medius and minimus, and sub- divides into two. Of these, the superior division, continuing the original course of the vessel, passes along the upper border of the Gluteus minimus to the anterior superior spine of the ilium, anastomosing with the circumflex iliac and ascending branches of the external circumflex artery. The inferior division crosses the Gluteus minimus obliquely to the trochanter major, distributing branches to the (UujJUvgl*' Glutei muscles, and inosculates with the external circumflex artery. Some branches pierce the Gluteus minimus to supply the hip-joint. The Ilio-Lumbar Artery ascends beneath the Psoas muscle and external iliac vessels, to the upper part of the iliac fossa, where it divides into a lumbar and an iliac branch. The lumbar branch supplies the Psoas and Quadratus lumborum muscles, / ^J&^^jJ^ anastomosing with the last lumbar artery, and sends a small spinal branch through - ') the intervertebral foramen, between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum, into the spinal canal, to supply the spinal cord and its membranes. The iliac branch descends to supply the Iliacus internus, some offsets running between the muscle and the bone, one of which enters an oblique canal to supply the diploe, whilst others run along the crest of the ilium, distributing branches to the Gluteal and Abdominal muscles, and anastomosing in their course with the gluteal, circumflex iliac, external circumflex, and epigastric arteries. The Lateral Sacral Arteries (fig. 227) are usually two in number on each side, superior and inferior. The superior, which is of large size, passes inwards, and, after anastomosing with branches from the middle sacral, enters the first or second sacral foramen, is distributed to the contents of the sacral canal, and escaping by the corresponding posterior sacral foramen, supplies the skin and muscles on the dorsum of the sacrum. The inferior branch passes obliquely across the front of the Pyriformis muscle, and sacral nerves to the inner side of the anterior sacral foramina, descends on the front of the sacrum, and anastomoses over the coccyx with the sacra media and opposite lateral sacral arteries. In its course, it gives off branches, which enter the anterior sacral foramina: these, after supplying the bones and membranes of the interior of the spinal canal, escape by the posterior sacral foramina, and are distributed to the muscles and skin on the dorsal surface of the sacrum. External Iliac Artery. (Fig. 227.) The external iliac artery is the chief vessel which supplies the lower limb. It is larger in the adult than the internal iliac, and passes obliquely downwards and outwards along the inner border of the Psoas muscle, from the bifurcation of the common iliac to the femoral arch, where it enters the thigh, and becomes the femoral artery, The course of this vessel wouldJbeJndicatedLjy a_lme__drawn from the left side of the umbilicus to a point midway _between_ihe^anterior superior spinous processejLfif the ilium anrl the symphygjg_piLhig. Relations. In front, with the peritoneum, superitoneal areolar tissue, the intestines, and a thin layer of fascia, derived from the iliac fascia, which surrounds the artery and vein. At its origin it is occasionally crossed by the ureter. The spermatic vessels descend for some distance upon it near its termination, and it is crossed in this situation by a branch of the genito-crural nerve and the circumflex iliac vein; the vas deferens curves down along its inner side. Behind, it is in relation with the external iliac vein, which, at the femoral arch, lies at its inner side ; on the left side the vein is altogether internal to the artery. Externally, it rests against the Psoas muscle, from which it is separated by the iliac fascia. The artery rests upon this muscle near Poupart's ligament. Numerous lymphatic vessels and glands are found lying on the front and inner side of the vessel.