ORGANS OF SENSE. 59^ aquceducus cocltlece leading to a minute funnel-shaped canal, which opens on the basilar surface of the petrous bone, and transmits a small vein. The interior of the spinal canal (fig. 316) is divided into three principal canals or scala?—viz. the Scala Tympani, Scala Vestibuli, and Scala Media, interposed between the other two. Projecting from the modiolus is a thin bony process, the lamina spiralis ossea, which consists of two thin lamellee of bone, between which 316.—Longitudinal Section of the Cochlea, showing the relations of the Scalre, the Ganglion Spirale, &c. S.V. Scala vestibuli. S.T. Scala tympani. S.M. Scala media. L.S. Ligamentum spirale. Gr.S. Ganglion spirale. are numerous canals for the passage of nervous filaments. Near the point where the osseous lamina is attached to the modiolus is a small canal, denominated by Rosenthal the canalis spiralis modioli, and occupied by a swelling of the cochlear nerve, in which ganglion-cells are found, the ganglion spirale, from which the nerves pass to the osseous lamina and organ of Corti. The osseous lamina extends only part of the distance between the modiolus and the outer bony wall of the cochlea. Near its outer end the periosteum swells up into an elevation which is called the limbus lamince spiralis ('denticulate lamina' of Todd and Bowman) and this terminates in a grooved border the salens spiralis, (fig. 317), the edges of the groove being called the labium tympanicum and labium vestibulare respectively. From the labium tympanicum a thin membrane extends over to the bony wall of the cochlea, completing the scala tympani. This mem- brane is called the membrana basilaris. At its outer attachment it swells out so as to form a thick triangular structure which was regarded as a muscle by Todd and Bowman (cochlearis) but is now recognised as ligamentous—the ligainentum spirale. Between the labium vestibulare and the attachment of the membrane of Reissner, presently to be described, a very delicate membrane extends over to the outer wall of the cochlea, running nearly parallel to the membrana basilaris. It was described by Corti, and covers over the organ which is called after his name, and is therefore called the membran.a teetoria or membrane of Corti. Further in- wards, near the commencement of the limbus lamince spiralis, another delicate membrane, the membrane of Reissner, is attached to the vestibular surface of the periosteum of the osseous lamina, and stretches across to the outer wall of the cochlea. The canal which lies below the osseous lamina and membrana ba- silaris is the scala tympani; that which is bounded by the osseous lamina and membrane of Reissner the scala vestibuli; while the space between the mem- brane of Reissner and membrana basilaris is generally described as the Scala