URINARY ORGANS. 690 is from an inch and a quarter to nearly two inches in length, rather less in width, and from two to three lines in thickness. In weight, they vary from one to two drachms. Relations. The anterior surface is in relation, on the right side, with the nnder surface of the liver ; and on the left, with the pancreas and spleen. The posterior surface rests upon the crus of the Diaphragm, opposite the tenth dorsal vertebra. The upper thin convex border is directed upwards and inwards. The lower thick concave border rests upon the upper end of the kidney, to which it is connected by areolar tissue. The inner border is in relation with the great.^splanchnic nerve and semilunar ganglion, and lies in contact on the right side with the inferior vena cava, and on the left side with the aorta. The surface of the supra- renal gland is surrounded by areolar tissue containing much fat, and closely invested by a thin fibrous coat, which is difficult to remove, on account of the numerous fibrous processes and vessels which enter the organ through the furrows on its anterior surface and base. Structure. On making a perpendicular section, the gland is seen to consist of two substances : external or cortical, and internal or medullary. The cortical substance forms the chief part of the organ ; it is of a deep yellow colour, and consists of narrow columnar masses placed perpendicularly to the surface. The medullary substance is soft, pulpy, and of a dark brown or black colour, hence the name, atrabiliary capsules, formerly given to these organs. In the centre is often seen a space formed by the breaking down of the component parts of the tissue. According to the researches of Osterlen and Mr. Simon, the narrow columnar masses of which the cortical substance is composed measure about yg-Q-th of an inch in diameter, and consist of small closed parallel tubes of limitary membrane, containing dotted nuclei, together with much granular matter, oil globules, and nucleated cells. According to Ecker, the apparently tubular canals consist of rows of closed vesicles placed endwise, so as to resemble tubes ; whilst Kolliker states, that these vesicles are merely loculi or spaces in the stroma of the organ, having no limitary membrane, which, from being situated endwise, present the appearance of linear tubes. Nucleated cells exist in large numbers in the suprarenal glands of ruminants, more sparingly in man and other animals, but the granular matter appears to form the chief constituent of the gland ; the granules vary in size, and they present the singular peculiarity of undergoing no change when acted upon by most chemical re-agents. The columnar masses are surrounded by a close capillary network, which runs parallel with them. The medullary substance consists of nuclei and granular matter, uniformly scattered throughout a plexus of minute veins. The arteries supplying the suprarenal capsules are numerous and of large size, they are derived from the aorta, the phrenic, and the renal; they subdivide into numerous minute branches previous to entering the substance of the gland. The suprarenal vein returns the blood from the medullary venous plexus, and receives several branches from the cortical substance ; it opens on_the right side into the inferior vena cava, on the left side into the renal vm'n. The lymphatics terminate in the lumbar glands. The nerves are exceedingly numerous ; they are derived from the solar and renal plexuses, and, according to Bergmann, from the phrenic and pneumogastric nerves. They have numerous small ganglia developed upon them. THE PELVIS. The cavity of the pelvis is that part of the general abdominal cavity which is below the level of the linea ilio-pectinea and the promontory of the sacrum. Boundaries. It is bounded, behind, by the sacrum, the coccyx, and the great sacro-sciatic ligaments ; in front and at the sides by the pubes and ischia, covered