368 ARTERIES. of the chest, the vessel forms a gentle curve, the convexity being upwards and outwards ; when it is directed at right angles with the trunk, the vessel is nearly straight; and when it is elevated still higher, the artery describes a curve, the concavity of which is directed upwards. At its commencement the artery is very deeply situated, but near its termination is superficial, being covered only by the skin and fascia. The description of the relations of this vessel is facilitated by its division into three portions : the first portion being that above the Pectoralis minor ; the second portion, behind ; and the third, below that muscle. The first portion of the axillary artery is in relation, in front, with the cla- vicular portion of the Pectoralis major, the costo-coracoid membrane, the Sub- clavius, and the cephalic vein ; behind, with the first intercostal space, the corre- sponding Intercostal muscle, the first serration of the Serratus magnus, and the posterior thoracic nerve ; on its outer side with the brachial plexus, from which it is separated by a little cellular interval; on its inner, or thoracic side, with the axillary vein. Relations of First Portion of the Axillary Artery. In front. Pectoralis major. Costo-coracoid membrane. Subclavius. Outer side. / 1^2^ \ Inner side- Brachial plexus. 1 First portion. i Axillary vein. Behind. First Intercostal space, and Intercostal muscle. First serration of Serratus magnus. Posterior thoracic nerve. The second portion of the axillary artery lies behind the Pectoralis minor. It is covered, in front, by the Pectoralis major and minor muscles ; behind, it is separated from the Subscapulars by a cellular interval; on the inner side is the axillary vein. The brachial plexus of nerves surrounds the artery, and separates it from direct contact with the vein and adjacent muscles. Relations of the Second Portion of the Axillary Artery. Outer side. Outer cord of plexus. In front. Inner side. Axillary vein. Inner cord of plexus. Behind. Subscapularis. CSe\ Posterior cord of plexus The third portion of the axillary artery lies below the Pectoralis minor. It is in relation, in front, with the lower part of the Pectoralis major above, being covered only by the integument and fascia below; behind, with the lower part of the Subscapularis, and the tendons of the Latissimus dorsi and Teres major; on its outer side, with the Coraco-brachialis; on its inner, or thoracic side, with the axillary vein. The nerves of the brachial plexus bear the following relation to the