DEVELOPMENT OF BRAIN. cxv merit of tlie lateral and third ventricles, and of the parts surrounding them— viz., the cerebral hemispheres, optic thalami, corpora striata, corpus cal- losum, fornix, and all the parts which form the floor of the third ventricle. The middle vesicle represents the aqueduct of Sylvius, with the corpora quadrigemina, and the crura cerebri. The posterior vesicle is developed into the fourth ventricle, and its walls form the cerebellum, Pons Varolii, Fig. LV.—Longitudinal section of the head of an embryo four weeks old, seen from the inside. I, Ocular vesicle. 2, Optic nerve flattened out. 3, Fore brain. 4, Intermediary brain. 5, Middle brain. 6, Hinder brain. 7, After brain. 8, Anterior portion of the tentorium cerebelli. 9, Its lateral portion intervening between Nos. 4 and 5. 10, The pharyngeal curve, bent into a cul-de-sac. 11, The auditory vesicle. 3 medulla oblongata, and parts in the floor of the fourth ventricle. The anteroposterior fissure which indicates the division of the brain into two halves appears early, and the primary anterior and posterior cerebral vesicles are also soon divided by a transverse fissure into two parts, so as to constitute five permanent rudiments of the brain and medulla oblongata. The middle primary vesicle remains undivided. The anterior part of the anterior cerebral vesicle (Vorderhirn, fore brain) constitutes the cerebral hemispheres, corpus c alio sum, corpora striata, fornix, lateral ventricles, and olfactory nerves. These parts lie at first quite covered and concealed by those formed from the middle vesicle, and by the optic thalami, which, with the optic nerves, the third ventricle, and the parts in its floor,* are furnished by the posterior portion of the anterior vesicle (Zwischenhirn, intermediary brain). By the third month, however, the hemispheres have risen above the optic thalami, and by the sixth month above the cerebellum. Fissures are seen on the surface of the hemisphere at the third month, but all except one disappear. This one persists, and forms the fissure of Sylvius. The permanent fissures for the convolutions do not form till about the seventh or eighth month. The middle cerebral vesicle (Mittelhirn, middle brain) is at first situated at the summit of the angle shown on Fig. LV. Its surface, at first smooth, is soon divided by a median and transverse groove into four tubercles (tubercula quadrigemina), which are gradually covered in by the growth of ! the cerebral hemispheres. The cavity diminishes as its walls thicken, and j contracts to form the aqueduct of Sylvius* The crura cerebri are also formed from this vesicle. The third primary cerebral vesicle is divided at an early period (between the ninth and twelfth week) into two, the anterior part (Hinterhirn, hinder brain) forming the cerebellum, and a membrane (membrana obturatrix), which closes the upper part of the fourth ventricle, and which disappears as development progresses; its posterior * The development of the pituitarv bedy is still a matter of question. g2