THE SKELETON. 2 The Irregular or Mixed bones are such as, from their peculiar form, cannot be grouped under either of the preceding heads. Their structure is similar to that of other bones, consisting of a layer of compact tissne externally, and of spongy cancellous tissue within. The irregular bones are, the vertebral, sacrum, coccyx, temporal, sphenoid, ethmoid, superior maxillary, inferior maxillary, palate, inferior turbinated, and hyoid. Surfaces of Bones. If the surface of any bone is examined, certain eminences and depressions are seen, to which descriptive anatomists have given the following names. A prominent process projecting from the surface of a bone, which it has never been separate from, or moveable upon, is termed an apophysis (from diro^vaLQ, an excrescence) ; but if such process is developed as a separate piece from the rest of the bone, to which it is afterwards joined, it is termed an epiphysis (from (bvatQ, an accretion^). These eminences and depressions are of two kinds: articular, and non-articular. Well-marked examples of articular eminences are found in the heads of the humerus and femur ; and of articular depressions, in the glenoid cavity of the scapula, and the acetabulum. Non-articular eminences are designated according to their form. Thus, a broad, rough, uneven elevation is called a tuberosity; a small rough prominence, a tubercle; a sharp, slender, pointed eminence, a spine; a narrow rough elevation, running some way along the surface, a ridge, or line. The non-articular depressions are also of very variable form, and are described as fossa3, grooves, furrows, fissures, notches, etc. These non-articular eminences and depressions serve to increase the extent of surface for the attachment of ligaments and muscles, and are usually well marked in proportion to the muscularity of the subject. THE SPINE. The Spine is a flexuous and flexible column, formed of a series of bones called Vertebrm. The Vertebrse are thirty-three in number, exclusive of those which form the skull, and have received the names cervical, dorsal, lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal, according to the position which they occupy ; seven being found in the cervical region, twelve in the dorsal, five in the lumbar, five in the sacral, and four in the coccygeal. This number is sometimes increased by an additional vertebra in one region, or the number may be diminished in one region, the deficiency being supplied by an additional vertebra in another. These observations do not apply to the cervical portion of the spine, the number of bones forming which is seldom increased or diminished. The Vertebree in the three uppermost regions of the spine are separate through- out the whole of life; but those found in the sacral and coccygeal regions are, in the adult, firmly united, so as to form two bones—five entering into the forma- tion of the upper bone or sacrum, and four into the terminal bone of the spine or coccyx. General Characters of a Vertebra. Each vertebra consists of two essential parts, an anterior solid segment or body, and a posterior segment or arch. The arch is formed of two pedicles and two laminse, supporting seven processes ; viz. four articular, two transverse, and one spinous process. The Bodies of the vertebrse are piled one upon the other, forming a strong pillar, for the support of the cranium and trunk ; the arches forming a hollow cylinder behind for the protection of the spinal cord. The different vertebrse are connected together by means of the articular processes, and the intervertebral