FOURTH VENTRICLE. 493 The inferior peduncles (processus ad medullam) connect the cerebellum with the medulla oblongata. They pass downwards, to the back part of the medulla, and form part of the restiform bodies. Above, the fibres of each process are connected chiefly with the laminae, on the upper surface of the cerebellum ; and below, they are connected with all three tracts of one half of the medulla, and, through these, with the corresponding half of the cord, excepting the posterior median columns. The middle peduncles (processus ad pontenf), the largest of the three, connect together the two hemispheres of the cerebellum, forming their great transverse commissure. They consist of a mass of curved fibres, which arise in the lateral parts of the cerebellum, and pass across to the same points on the opposite side. They form the transverse fibres of the pons Varolii. Fourth Ventricle. (Fig. 266.) The fourth ventricle, or ventricle of the cerebellum, is the space between the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata and pons in front, and the cerebellum behind. It is lozenge-shaped, being contracted above and below, and broadest across its central part. It is bounded laterally by the processus e cerebello ad testes above, and by the diverging posterior pyramids and restiform bodies below. The roof is arched; it is formed by the valve of Vieussens and the under surface of the cerebellum, which presents, in this situation, four small eminences or lobules, the nodulus, uvula, and amygdala?. The anterior boundary, or floor, is formed by the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata and pons. In the median line is seen the posterior median fissure, which becomes gradually obliterated above, and terminates below in the point of the calamus scriptorius, formed by the convergence of the posterior pyramids. At this point is the orifice of a short canal terminating in a cul-de- sac, the remains of the canal which extends in foetal life through the centre of the cord. On each side of the median fissure are two slightly convex longi- tudinal eminences, the fasciculi teretes : they extend the entire length of the floor, being indistinct below and of a greyish colour, but well marked and whitish above. Each eminence consists of fibres derived from the lateral tract and restiform body, which ascend to the cerebrum. Opposite the cms cerebelli, on the outer side of the fasciculi teretes, is a small eminence of dark grey substance, which presents a bluish tint through the thin stratum covering it; this is called the locus cmrideus; and a thin streak of the same colour continued up from this on either side of the fasciculi teretes, as far as the top of the ventricle, is called the tainia violacea. The lower part of the floor of the ventricle is crossed by several white transverse lines, linear transversa ; they emerge from the posterior median fissure ; some enfer the cms cerebelli, others enter the roots of origin of the auditory nerve, whilst some pass upwards aud outwards on the floor of the ventricle. The lining membrane of the fourth ventricle is continuous with that of the third, through the aqueduct of Sylvius, and its cavity communicates below with the sub-arachnoid space of the brain and cord through an aperture in the layer of pia mater extending between the cerebellum and medulla oblongata. Laterally, this membrane is reflected outwards a short distance between the cerebellum and medulla. The choroid plexuses of the fourth ventricle arc two in number ; they are delicate vascular fringes, which project into the ventricle on each side, passing from the point of the inferior vermiform process to the outer margin of the restiform bodies. The grey matter in the floor of the ventricle consists of a tolerably thick stratum, continuous below with the grey commissure of the cord, and extending