Ixxviii GENERAL ANATOMY. more sepa- are closely capsules are from thirty to sixty in number, the outer being rated from each other, as if by a clear fluid, while the inner applied together. Schultze calls attention to the striking- resemblance in all essential particulars between these corpuscles and Krause's end-bulbs above described."* In the special organs the nerves end in various ways, which hitherto are not perfectly known. Fig. XXX.—A, Side view of a papilla of the band, a, cortical layer; b, tactile cor- puscle, with transverse nuclei ; c, small nerve of the papilla, with neurilemma ; d, its two nervous fibres running with spiral coils around the tactile corpuscle; e, ap- parent termination of one of these fibres. B, A tactile papilla seen from above, so as to show its transverse section, a, cortical layer; b, nerve-fibre ; e, outer layer of the tactile body, with nuclei; d, clear interior substance. From the human subject, treated with acetic acid. Magnified 350 times. Fig. XXXI.—Pacinian corpuscle with its system of capsules and central cavity, a, arterial twig, ending in capillaries, which form loops in some of the intercapsular spaces, and one penetrates to the central capsule ; b, the fibrous tissue of the stalk pro- longed from the neurilemma; n, nerve-tube advancing to the central capsule, there losing its white sub- stance, and stretching along the axis to the opposite end, where it is fixed by a tubercular enlargement. Moyer and Oormheim have described the nerves of the cornea as ter- minating in primitive fibrillin, which run between the cells forming the pavement-epithelium of that membrane, and end on its free surface. This, however, is doubted by Hulke,f who has only succeeded in tracing them as far as the middle tier of the epithelial cells. Schultze discovers in the olfactory mucous membrane, lying between the cells of its epithelium, spindle-shaped cells, each possessing a central and * Strieker's Ilandbuch, p. 123. | Lectures on the Histology of the Eye, at the Royal Ccllegedf Surgeons, June 1869.