SURGICAL ANATOMY. sides, a large conical-shaped pad should be placed in the axilla with the base turned upwards, and the elbow approximated to the side, and retained there by a broad roller passed round the chest,; the forearm should then be flexed, and the hand supported in a sling, care being taken not to raise the elbow, otherwise the lower fragment may be displaced upwards. In fracture of the shaft of the humerus below the insertion of the Pectoralis major, Latissimus dorsi, and Teres major, and above the insertion of the Deltoid, there is also considerable deformity, the upper fragment being drawn inwards by the first-mentioned muscles, and the lower fragment upwards and outwards by the Deltoid, producing shortening of the limb, and a considerable prominence at the seat of fracture, from the fractured ends of the bone riding over one another, especially if the fracture takes place in an oblique direction. The fragments may be brought into apposition by extension from the elbow, and retained in that position by adopting the same means as in the preceding- injury. In fractures of the shaft of the humerus immediately below the insertion of the Deltoid amount of deformity depends greatly upon the direction of the fracture. If the frac- ture occurs in a transverse direction, only slight displacement occurs, the upper fragment being drawn a little forwards; but in oblique fracture, the combined actions of the Biceps and Brachialis anticus muscles in front, and the Triceps behind, draw upwards the lower fragment causing it to glide over the upper fragment, either backwards or forwards, according to the direction of the fracture. Simple extension reduces the deformity, and the application of splints on the four sides of the arm will retain the fragments in apposition. Care should be taken not to raise the elbow; but the forearm and hand may be supported in a sling. Fracture of the humerus (fig. 182) immediately above the condyles deserves very attentive consideration, as the general appearances cor- respond somewhat with those produced by 182,—Fracture of the Humerus above the separation of the epiphysis of the humerus, Condyles, and with those of dislocation of the radius and ulna backwards. If the direction of the fracture is oblique from above, downwards, and forwards, the lower fragment is drawn upwards and backwards by the Brachialis anticus and Biceps in front, and the Triceps behind. This injury may be diagnosed front dislocation, by the increased mobility in frac- ture, the existence of crepitus, and the fact of the deformity being remedied by extent sion, on the discontinuance of which it is reproduced. The age of the patient is of im- portance in distinguishing this form of injury from separation of the epiphysis. If fracture occurs in the opposite direction to that shown in the accompanying figure, the lower frag- ment is drawn upwards and forwards, causing a considerable prominence in front; and the upper fragment projects backwards beneath the tendon of the Triceps muscle. Fracture of the coronoid process of the ulna is an accident of rare occurrence, and is usually caused by violent action of the Brachialis anticus muscle. The amount of dis- placement varies according to the extent of the fracture. If the tip of the process only is broken off, the fragment is drawn upwards by the Brachialis anticus on a level with the coronoid depression of the humerus, and the power of flexion is partially lost. If 183.—Fracture of the Olecranon, the process is broken off near its root, the fragment is still displaced by the same muscle; at the same time, on extending the forearm, partial dislocation backwards of the ulna occurs from the action of the Triceps muscle. The appropriate treat- ment would be to relax the Brachialis anticus by flexing the forearm, and to re- tain the fragments in apposition by keeping the arm in this position. Union is gene- rally ligamentous. Fracture of the olecranon process (fig. 183) is a more frequent accident, and is caused either by violent action of the Triceps muscle, or by a fall or blow upon the point of the elbow. The detached fragment is displaced upwards, by the action of the Triceps muscle, from half