OF THE HAND. 281 Extensors of the wrist; continuing their action, they serve to extend the forearm upon the arm ; they are the direct antagonists of the Flexor carpi radialis and ulnaris. The common Extensor of the lingers, the Extensors of the thumb, and the Extensors of the index and little fingers, serve to extend the phalanges into which they are inserted; and are the direct antagonists of the Flexors. By continuing their action, they assist in extending the forearm. The Extensors of the thumb, in consequence of the oblique direction of their tendons, assist in supinating the forearm, when the thumb lias been drawn inwards towards the palm. Muscles and Fascia of the Hand. Dissection (fig. 168). Make a transverse incision across the front of the wrist, and a second across the heads of the metacarpal bones: connect the two by a vertical incision in the middle line, and continue it through the centre of the middle finger. The anterior and posterior angular ligaments, and the palmar fascia, should then be dissected. The Anterior Annular T'irjamp.nf, is a strong fibrous band, which arches over the carpus, converting the deep groove on the front of the carpal bones into a canal, beneath which pass the flexor tendons of the fingers, It^ is attached, internalIv, to the pisiform bone, and unciform process of the unciform ; and externally, to 1 11 e tuberosity of the scaphoid, and ridge on the trapezium. It is continuous, above, with the deep fascia of the forearm, and below, with the palmar fascia. It is crossed by the tendon of the Palmaris longus, by the ulnar vessels and nerve, and the cutaneous branches of the median and ulnar nerves. It has inserted into its upper and inner part the greater part of the tendon of the Flexor carpi ulnaris ; and bas, arising from it below, the small muscles of the thumb and little finger. It is pierced by the tendon of the Flexor carpi radialis ; and, beneath it, pass the tendons of the Flexor sublimis and profundus digitorum, the Flexor longus pollicis, and the median nerve. There are two synovial membranes beneath this ligament. one of large size, enclosing the tendons of the Flexor sublimis and profundus; and a separate one for the tendon of the Flexor longus pollicis, which is also very extensive, reaching from above the wrist to the extremity of the last phalanx of the thumb. The Posterior Annular Li- gament is a strong fibrous band, extending transversely across the back of the wrist, and continuous with the fascia of the forearm. It forms a sheath for the extensor ten- dons in their passage to the fingers, hmug attach crL, inter- nally, to the ulna, the cunei- form and pisiform bones and palmar fascia; externally, to the margin of the radius : and in its passage across the wrist, to the elevated ridges on the posterior surface of the radius. It presents sj?L compartments for the passage of tendons, each of which is lined by a separate synovial membrane. These are, from without inwards—1. On the outer side of the styloid process for the tendons of the Extensor ossis metacarpi, and Ex- tensor primi internodii pollicis. 2. Behind the styloid process, for the tendons of the Extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior. 3. Opposite the outer side of the posterior surface of the radius, for the tendon of the Extensor secundi internodii pollicis. 4. To the inner side of the latter, for the tendons of the Extensor communis digitorum, and Extensor indicis. 5. For the Extensor minimi digiti, 176.—Transverse Section through the Wrist, showing the Annular Ligaments and the Canals for the Passage of the Tendons.