121 FEMUR. plane of the inlet of the true pelvis will be represented by a line drawn from the base of the sacrum to the upper margin of the symphysis pubis. A line carried at right angles with this at its middle, would correspond at one extremity with the umbilicus, and at the other with the middle of the coccyx; the axis of the inlet is therefore directed downwards and backwards. The axis of the outlet produced upwards would touch the base of the sacrum, and is therefore directed downwards and forwards. The axis of the cavity is curved like the cavity itself: this curve corresponds to the concavity of the sacrum and coccyx, the extremities being indicated by the central points of the inlet and outlet. A knowledge of the direction of these axes serves to explain the course of the foetus in its passage through the pelvis during parturition. It is also important to the surgeon, as indicating the direction of the force required in the removal of calculi from the bladder, and as determining the direction in which instruments should be used in operations upon the pelvic viscera. Differences between the Male and Female Pelvis. In the male the bones are thicker and stronger, and the muscular eminences and impressions on their surfaces more strongly marked. The male pelvis is altogether more mas- sive ; its cavity is deeper and narrower, and the obturator foramina of larger size. In the female the bones are lighter and more expanded, the muscular impres- sions on their surfaces are only slightly marked, and the pelvis generally is less massive in structure. The iliac fossas are broad, and the spines of the ilia widely separated ; hence the great prominence of the hips. The inlet and the outlet are larger; the cavity is more capacious, and the spines of the ischia project less into it. The promontory is less projecting, the sacrum wider and less curved,* and the coccyx more moveable. The arch of the pubes is wider, and its edges more everted. The tuberosities of the ischia and the acetabula are wider apart. In the foetus and for several years after birth, the pelvis is small in proportion to that of the adult. The cavity is deep, and the projection of the sacro-vertebral angle less marked. The antero-posterior and transverse diameters are nearly equal. About puberty, the pelvis in both sexes presents the general characters of the adult male pelvis, but after puberty it acquires its proper sexual characters. The Femur or Thigh-Bone. The Femur is the longest, largest, and strongest bone in the skeleton, and almost perfectly cylindrical in the greater part of its extent. In the erect posture it is not vertical, being separated from its fellow above by a considerable interval, which corresponds to the entire breadth of the pelvis, but inclining gradually downwards and inwards, so as to approach its fellow towards its lower part, for the purpose of bringing the knee-joint near the line of gravity of the body. The degree of this inclination varies in different persons, and is greater in the female than in the male, on account of the greater breadth of the pelvis. The femur, like other long bones, is divisible into a shaft, and two extremities. The Upper Extremity presents for examination a head, a neck, and the greater and lesser trochanters. The head, which is globular, and forms rather more than a hemisphere, is di- rected upwards^ inwards, and a little forwards, the greater part of its convexity being above and in front. Its surface is smooth, Coated with- cartilage in the recent state, and presents, a little behind and below its centre, an ovoid depression, for the attachment of the ligamentum teres. The nech is a flattened pyramidal process of bone, which connects the head with the shaft. It varies in length and * It is not unusual, however, to find the sacrum in the female presenting- a considerable curve extending- throughout its whole length.