297 ANTERIOR FEMORAL REGION. synovial bursa. By its deep surface, with the Crureus, some large branches of the external circumflex artery and anterior crural nerve being interposed. The Vastus Intemus and Crureus are so inseparably connected together, as to form but one muscle, as which it will be accordingly described. It is the smallest portion of the Quadriceps extensor. The anterior portion of it, covered by the Rectus, is called the Crureus ; the internal portion, which lies immediately beneath the fascia lata, the Vastus Internus. It arises by an aponeurosis, which is attached to the lower part of the line that extends from the inner side of the neck of the femur to the linea aspera, from the whole length of the inner lip of the linea aspera, and internal intermuscular septum. It also arises from nearly the whole of the internal, anterior, and external surfaces of the shaft of the femur, limited, above, by the line between the two trochanters, and extending, below, to within the lower fourth of the bone. From these different origins, the fibres converge to a broad aponeurosis, which covers the anterior surface of the middle portion of the muscle (the Crureus), and the deep surface of the inner division of the muscle (the Vastus internus), and which gradually narrows down to its insertion into the patella, where it blends with the other portions of the Quadriceps extensor. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Psoas and Iliacus, the Rectus, Sartorius, Pectineus, Adductors, and fascia lata, femoral vessels, and saphenous nerve. By its deep surface, with the femur, Subcrureus, and synovial membrane of the knee-joint. The student will observe the striking analogy that exists between the Quadriceps extensor and the Triceps muscle in the upper extremity. So close is this simi- larity, that M. Cruveilhier has described it under the name of the Triceps femoralis. Like the Triceps brachialis, it consists of three distinct divisions, or heads : a middle or long head, analogous to the long head of the Triceps, attached to the ilium, and two other portions which may be called the external and internal heads of the Triceps femoralis. These, it will be noticed, are strictly analogous to the outer and inner heads of the Triceps brachialis. The tendons of the different portions of the Quadriceps extensor unite at the lower part of the thigh, so as to form a single strong tendon, which is inserted into the upper part of the patella. More properly, the patella may be regarded as a sesamoid bone, developed in the tendon of the Quadriceps; and the ligamentum patella?, which is continued from the lower part of the patella to the tuberosity of the tibia, as the proper tendon of insertion of the muscle. A synovial bursa is interposed between the tendon and the upper part of the tuberosity of the tibia. From the tendons corresponding to the Vasti, a fibrous prolongation is derived, which is attached below to the upper extremities of the tibia and fibula, and which serves to protect the knee-joint, being strengthened on its outer side by the fascia lata. The Subcrureus is a small muscle, usually distinct from the Crureus, but occa- sionally blended with it, which arises from the anterior surface of the lower part of the shaft of the femur, and is inserted into the upper part of the synovial pouch that extends upwards from the knee-joint behind the patella. It sometimes consists of two separate muscular bundles. Nerves. The Tensor vaginae femoris is supplied by the superior gluteal nerve ; the other muscles of this region, by branches from the anterior crural. Actions. The Tensor vaginae femoris is a tensor of the fascia lata; continuing its action, the oblique direction of its fibres enable it to rotate the thigh inwards. In the erect posture, acting from below, it will serve to steady the pelvis upon the head of the femur. The Sartorius flexes the leg upon the thigh, and, continuing to act, flexes the thigh upon the pelvis, at the same time drawing the limb inwards, so as to cross one leg over the other. Taking its fixed point from the leg, it flexes the pelvis upon the thigh, and, if one muscle acts, assists in rotating the pelvis. The Quadriceps extensor extends the leg upon the thigh. Taking its fixed point from the leg, as in standing, this muscle will act upon the femur,