OF THE HAND. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Flexor brevis, and Abductor minimi digiti. By its deep surface, with the interossei muscles in the fourth metacarpal space, the metacarpal bone, and the Flexor tendons of the little finger. Nerves. All the muscles of this group are supplied by the ulnar nerve. Actions. The actions of the muscles of the little finger are expressed in their names. The Palmaris brevis corrugates the skin on the inner side of the palm of the hand. Middle ^almai* Region. Lumbricales. Interossei Palmares. Interossei Dorsales. The Lumbricales (fig. 177) are four small fleshy fasciculi, accessories to the deep Flexor muscle. They arise by fleshy fibres from the tendons of the deep Flexor : the first and second, from the radial side and palmar surface of the tendons of the index and middle fingers; the third, from the contiguous sides of the tendons of the middle and ring fingers; and the fourth, from the contiguous sides of the tendons of the ring and little fingers. They pass forwards to the radial side of th e cor- responding fingers, and opposite the meta- 178.—The Dorsal Interossei of Left Hand, carpo-phalangeal articulation each tendon terminates in a broad aponeurosis, which is inserted into the tendinous expansion from the Extensor communis dig-itorum, covering the dorsal aspect of each finger. The Interossei Muscles are so named from occupying the intervals between the metacarpal bones. They are divided into two sets, a dorsal and palmar ; the former are four in number, one in each mctaear- pal space ; the latter, three in number, lie upon the metacarpal bones. The Dorsal Interossei are four in num- ber, larger than the palmar, and occupy the intervals between the metacarpal bones. They are bipenniform muscles, arising by two heads from the adjacent sides of the metacarpal bones, but more extensively from that side of the meta- carpal bone which corresponds to the side of the finger in which the muscle is inserted. They are inserted into the base of the first phalanges and into the apo- neurosis of the common Extensor tendon. Between the double origin of each of these muscles is a narrow triangular interval, through which passes a perforating branch from the deep palmar arch. The First Dorsal Interosseous muscle, or Abductor indicis, is larger than the others. It is flat, triangular in form, and arises by two heads, separated by a fibrous arch, for the passage of the radial artery from the dorsum to the pal in of the hand. The outer head arises from the upper half of the ulnar border of the first metacarpal bone ; the inner head, from almost the entire length of the radial border of the second metacarpal bone; the tendon is inserted into the radial side of the index finger. The second and third dorsal interossei are inserted into the middle finger, the former into its radial, the latter into its ulnar side. The fourth is inserted into the ulnar side of the ring-finger. The Palmar Interossei, three in number, are smaller than the Dorsal, and placed upon the palmar surface of the metacarpal bones, rather than between them. They arise from the entire length of the metacarpal bone of one finger, and are