222 MUSCLES AND FASCIAE. nerves ; the sterno-cleido-mastoid by the spinal accessory and deep branches of the cervical plexns. Actions. The Platysma myoides produces a slight wrinkling of the surface of the skin of the neck, in a vertical direction, where the entire muscle is brought into action. Its anterior portion, the thickest part of the muscle, depresses the lower jaw ; it also serves to draw down the lower lip and angle of the mouth on each side, being one of the chief agents in the expression of melancholy. The Sterno-mastoid muscles, when both are brought into action, serve to depress the head upon the neck, and the neck upon the chest. Either muscle, acting singly, flexes the head, and (combined with the Splenius) draws it towards the shoulder of the same side, and rotates it so as to carry the face towards the opposite side. Surgical Anatomy. The relations of the sternal and clavicular parts of the Sterno-mastoid should be carefully examined, as the surgeon is sometimes required to divide one or both portions of the muscle in wry neck. One variety of this distortion is produced by spasmodic contraction or rigidity of the Sterno-mastoid; the head being carried down towards the shoulder of the same side, and the face turned to the opposite side, and fixed in that position. When all other remedies for the relief of this disease have failed, subcutaneous division of the muscle is resorted to. This is performed by introducing a long narrow bistoury beneath it, about half an inch above its origin, and dividing it from behind forwards whilst the muscle is put well upon the stretch. There is seldom any difficulty in dividing the sternal portion. In dividing the clavicular portion care must be taken to avoid wounding the external jugular vein, which runs parallel with the posterior border of the muscle in this situation. 2. Inera-Hyoid Region. (Figs. 153, 154.) Depressors of the Os Hyoides and Larynx. Sterno-Hyoicl. Thyro-Hyoid. Sterno-Tbyroid. Omo-Hyoid. Dissection. The muscles in this region may be exposed by removing the deep fascia from the front of the neck. In order to see the entire extent of the Omo-hyoid, it is necessary to divide the Sterno-mastoid at its centre, and turn its ends aside, and to detach the Trapezius from the clavicle and scapula. This, however, should not be done unless the Trapezius has been dissected. The Sterno-Hyoicl is a thin, narrow, riband-like muscle, which arises from the inner extremity of the clavicle, and the upper and posterior part of the first piece of the sternum; and, passing upwards and inwards, is inserted, by short tendinous fibres, into the lower border of the body of the os hyoides. This muscle is separated, below, from its fellow by a considerable interval; but they approach one another in the middle of their course, and again diverge as they ascend. It often presents, immediately above its origin, a transverse tendinous intersection, like those in the Rectus abdominis. Variations. This muscle sometimes arises from the inner extremity of the clavicle, and the posterior sterno-clavicular ligament; or from the sternum and this ligament; from either bone alone, or from all these parts; and occasionally has a fasciculus connected with the cartilage of the first rib. Relations. By its superficial surface, below, with the sternum, the sternal end of the clavicle, and the Sterno-mastoid ; and above, with the Platysma and deej) cervical fascia. By its deep surfdce^ with the Sterno-thyroid, Crico-thyroid, and Thyro-hyoid muscles, the thyroid gland, the superior thyroid vessels, the crico- thyroid and thyro-hyoid membranes. The Sterno-Thjjroid is situated beneath the preceding muscle, but is shorter and wider than it. It arises from the posterior surface of the first bone of the sternum, below the origin of the Sterno-hyoid, and occasionally from the edge of the cartilage of the first rib ; and is inserted into the oblique line on the side of the ala of the thyroid cartilage. This muscle is in close contact with its fellow at the lower part of the neck ; and is frequently traversed by a transverse or oblique tendinous intersection, like those in the Rectus abdominis.