RADIAL. 375 between the outer and inner heads of the Triceps muscle, accompanied by the musculo-spiral nerve ; it winds round the back part of the shaft of the humerus in the spiral groove, between the Triceps and the boue, and descends on the outer side of the arm to the space between the Brachialis anticus and Supinator longus, as far as the elbow, where it anastomoses with the recurrent branch of the radial artery. It supplies the Deltoid, Coraco-brachialis, and Triceps muscles, and whilst in the groove between the Triceps and the bone, it gives off the posterior articular artery^ which descends perpendicularly between the Triceps and the bone, to the back part of the elbow-joint, where it anastomoses with the interosseous recurrent branch, and, on the inner side of the arm, with the posterior ulnar recurrent, and with the anastomotica magna or inferior profunda (fig. 221). The nutrient artery of the shaft of the humerus arises from the brachial, about the middle of the arm. Passing downwards, it enters the nutrient canal of that bone, near the insertion of the Coraco-brachialis muscle. The inferior profunda, of small size, arises from the brachial, a little below the middle of the arm; piercing the internal intermuscular septum, it descends on the surface of the inner head of the Triceps muscle, to the space between the inner condyle and olecranon, accompanied by the ulnar nerve, and terminates by ana- stomosing with the posterior ulnar recurrent, and anastomotica magna. The anastomotica magna arises from the brachial, about two inches above the elbow-joint. It passes transversely inwards upon the Brachialis anticus, and piercing the internal intermuscular septum, winds round the back part of the humerus between the Triceps and the bone, forming an arch above the olecranon fossa, by its junction with the posterior articular branch of the superior profunda. As this vessel lies on the Brachialis anticus, an offset passes between the internal condyle and olecranon, which anastomoses with the inferior profunda and posterior ulnar recurrent arteries. Other branches ascend to join the inferior profunda; and some descend in front of the inner condyle, to anastomose with the anterior ulnar recurrent. Vu^jl ft- • L-1 The muscular are three or four large branches, which are distributed to the muscles in the course of the artery. They supply the Coraco-brachialis, Biceps, and Brachialis anticus muscles. Radial Artery. The Radial Artery appears, from its direction, to be the continuation of the brachial, but, in size, it is smaller than the ulnar. It commences at the bifurca- tion of the brachial, just below the bend of the elbow, and passes along the radial side of the forearm to the wrist; it then winds backwards, round the outer side of the carpus, beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb, and, finally, passes for- wards between the two heads of the first Dorsal interosseous muscle, into the palm of the hand, where it crosses the metacarpal bones to the ulnar border of the hand, to form the deep palmar arch. At its termination, it inosculates with the deep branch of the ulnar artery. The relations of this vessel may thus be conve- niently divided into three parts, viz., in front of the forearm, at the back of the wrist, and in the hand. Relations. In the forearm, this vessel extends from opposite the neck of the radius, to the forepart of the styloid process, being placed to the inner side of the shaft of the bone, above, and in front of it below. Itjs^superficial throughout its entire extent, being covered by the integument, the superficial and deep fascia, and slightly overlapped above by the Supinator longus. In its course downwards, it lies upon the tendon of the Biceps, the Supinator brevis, the Pronator radii teres, the radial origin of the Flexor sublimis digitorum, the Flexor longus pollicis, the Pronator quadratus, and the lower extremity of the radius. In the upper third of its course, it lies between the Supinator longus and the Pronator radii teres; in its lower two-thirds, between the tendons of the Supinator longus and the Flexor carpi radialis. The radial nerve lies along the outer side of the artery.