352 ARTERIES. ■4- Plan of the Relations of the Internal Carotid Artery in the Neck. In front. Skin, superficial and deep fasciae.ifrC*. Parotid gland. Stylo-glossus and Stylo-pharyngeus . A^^/u ^., S'fijfa&y. -Qz Jl muscles. "h^inX^^i^J.. UfZ Glosso-pharyngeal nerve. l^h UccJul cc^^»t A Internalh/. Externally. ggg \ Pharynx. Internal jugular vein. 1 Artery. J Ascending pharyngeal artery. Pneumogastric nerve. \ / Tonsil. Behind. Rectus anticus major. Sympathetic, u'tft-■C-'y- of the internal carotid vanes according Peculiarities. The length of the internal carotia varies according to the length of the neck, and also according to the point of bifurcation of the common carotid. Its origin sometimes takes place from the arch of the aorta; in such rare instances, this vessel has been found to be placed nearer the middle line of the neck than the external carotid, as far upwards as the larynx, when the latter vessel crossed the internal carotid. The course of the vessel, instead of being straight, may be very tortuous. A few instances are recorded in which this vessel was altogether absent: in one of these the common carotid passed up the neck, and gave off the usual branches of the external carotid: the cranial portion of the internal carotid being replaced by two branches of the internal maxillary, which entered the skull through the foramen rotundum and ovale, and joined to form a single vessel. Surgical Anatomy. The cervical part of the internal carotid is sometimes wounded by a stab or gun-shot wound in the neck, or even occasionally by a stab from within the mouth, as when a person receives a thrust from the end of a parasol, or falls down with a tobacco-pipe in his mouth. In such cases a ligature should be applied to the common carotid. The relation of the internal carotid with the tonsil should be especially remem- bered, as instances have occurred in which the artery has been wounded during the operation of scarifying the tonsil, and fatal haemorrhage has supervened. The branches given off from t|ie internal carotid are: From the Petrous Portion . Tympanic. r Arterige Receptaculi. From the Cavernous Portion J Anterior Meningeal. From ilte Cerebral Portion (_ Ophthalmic, p Anterior Cerebral. 1 Middle Cerebral. ] Posterior communicating. L Anterior Chr^woid. The cervical portion of the internal carotid gives off no branches. The tympanic is a small branch which enters the cavity of the tympanum* through a minute foramen in the carotid canal, and anastomoses with the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary, and with the stylo-mastoid artery. The arterioe receptaculi are numerous small vessels, derived from the internal carotid in the cavernous sinus ; they supply the pituitary body, the Casserian ganglion, and the walls of the cavernous and inferior petrosal sinuses. One of these branches, distributed to the dura mater, is called the anterior meningeal; it anastomoses with the middle meningeal. The Ophthalmic Artery arises from the internal carotid, just as that vessel is emerging from the cavernous sinus, on the inner side of the anterior clinoid process, and enters the orbit through the optic foramen, below and on the outer side of the optic nerve. It then passes across the nerve, to the inner wall of the orbit, and thence horizontally forwards, beneath the lower border of the Superior