599 MEMBRANOUS LABYRINTH. they are hollow, and open by five orifices into the utricle, one opening being common to two canals. Their ampulge are thicker than the rest of the tubes, and nearly fill the cavities in which they are contained. The membranous labyrinth is held in its position by the numerous nervous filaments distributed to the utricle, to the saccule, and to the ampulla of each canal. These nerves enter the vestibule through the minute apertures on its inner wall. Structure. The wall of the membranous labyrinth is semi-transparent, and consists of three layers. The outer layer is a locse and flocculent tissue, containing blood-vessels and numerous pigment-cells, analogous to those in the choroid. The middle layer, thicker and more transparent, bears some resemblance to the hyaloid membrane, but it presents in parts marks of longitudinal fibrillation and elongated nuclei on the addition of acetic acid. The inner layer is formed of polygonal nucleated epithelial cells, which secrete the endolymph, The endolymph (liquor Scarpa?) is a limpid, serous fluid, which fills the mem- branous labyrinth; in composition, it closely resembles the perilymph. The otoliths are two small rounded bodies, consisting of a mass of minute crystalline grains of carbonate of lime, held together in a mesh of delicate fibrous tissue, and contained in the wall of the utricle and saccule, opposite the distribu- tion of the nerves. A calcareous material is also, according to Bowman, sparingly scattered in the cells lining the ampulla of each semicircular canal. The Arteries of the labyrinth are the internal auditory, from the basilar or superior cerebellar, the stylo-mastoid, from the posterior auricular, and, occasion- ally, branches from the occipital. The internal auditory divides at the bottom of the internal meatus into two branches, cochlear and vestibular. The cochlear branch subdivides into from twelve to fourteen twigs, which traverse the canals in the modiolus, and are distributed, in the form of a capillary network, in the substance of the lamina spiralis. The vestibular branches accompany the nerves, and are distributed, in the form of a minute capillary network, in the substance of the membranous labyrinth. The Veins of the vestibule and semicircular canals accompany the arteries, and, receiving those of the cochlea at the base of the modiolus, terminate in the superior petrosal sinus. The Auditory nerve, the special nerve of the sense of hearing, divides, at the bottom of the internal auditory meatus, into two branches, the cochlear and ves- tibular. The trunk of the nerve, as well as the branches, contains numerous ganglion-cells with caudate prolongations. The vestibular nerve, the posterior of the two, divides into three branches, superior, middle, and inferior. The superior vestibular branch, the largest, divides into numerous filaments, which pass through minute openings at the upper and back part of the cul-de-sac at the bottom of the meatus, and entering the vestibule, are distributed to the utricle, and to the ampulla of the external and superior semicircular canals. The middle vestibular branch consists of numerous filaments, which enter the vestibule by a smaller cluster of foramina, placed below those above-mentioned, and which correspond to the bottom of the fovea hemispherica • they are distributed to the saccule. The inferior and smallest branch passes backwards in a canal behind the foramina for the nerves of the saccule, and is distributed to the ampulla of the posterior semicircular canal. The nervous filaments enter the ampullary enlargement at a deep depression seen on their external surface, and a corresponding elevation is seen within, the nerve-fibres ending in loops, and in free extremities. In the utricle and saccule, the nerve fibres spread out, some blending with calcareous matter, others radia- ting on the inner surface of the wall of each cavity, becoming blended with a layer of nucleated cells, and terminating in a thin fibrous film. The cochlear nerve divides into numerous filaments at the base of the modiolus.