Ixxxix THE SKIN. according to which the afferent vessels break up into a plexus of smaller vessels, and these re-unite to form the efferent vessels, so that the afferent and efferent lymphatics are directly continuous. Some observers added to this description, that there were a number of minute dotted corpuscles lying- between the meshes of the network of vessels in the interior of the gland, and grouped in cells like the acini of secreting glands. But the description given by His and Kolliker, and which has been adopted by Dr. Sharpey, makes the structure more complex than this. It is, in brief, as follows:—Passing inwards from the capsule of the gland are a number of septa or trabecule, fibrous in man, muscular in sOme of the lower animals, which separate the outer or cortical portion of the gland into alveoli. The afferent vessels break up and open into these alveoli, much in the same way that the splenic capillaries open into the pulp of that organ. The alveoli contain a greyish-white pulp, consisting, according to Kolliker, of the minutest ramifications of fibrous tissue, and of a juice, containing round cells identical with those of the chyle or lymph. The interior of the gland (medullary portion) is formed of a number of vascular channels (together with capillaries and connective tissue), which are the radicles of the efferent vessels, and converge to the hilum. The cortical portion is usually deficient at the hilum, where the medullary tissue of the gland passes directly into the efferent channels. The afferent lymphatics, after passing at various points through the capsule, break up in the septa between the alveoli into their terminal ramifications ; and here, as Kolliker supposes, they open into those spaces just as the arteries of erectile tissue do into the covernous spaces of which that tissue is composed. From the walls of the alveoli lymphatic channels can again be traced, which are the radicles of the efferent vessels, and accompany the arterial branches. The gland-pulp does not completely fill the alveoli of the cortical, nor the vascular channels of the medullary portion, but leaves a space, visible in sections from which the lymph-corpuscles have been washed away. This space is called the lymph-sinus; but it seems to be distinguished from the rest of the alveolus merely by a less close arrangement of the con- nective tissue, through which the lymph circulates. Dr. Sharpey describes the lymph-sinus as lined throughout by a layer of pavement- epithelium similar to that of the lymphatic vessels with which it is continuous. The arteries and veins pass into and out of the gland at the hilum, and Kolliker has described some fine nervous filaments, as accompanying them. THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. The Skin is the principal seat of the sense of touch, and may be regarded as a covering for the protection of the deeper tissues ; it is also an important excretory and absorbing organ. It consists of two layers, the derma,or cutis vera, and the epidermis or cuticle. On the surface of the former layer are the sensitive papillae; and within, or embedded beneath it, are the sweat-glands, hair-follicles, and sebaceous glands.