GENERAL ANATOMY. lii interior of the bone. They are said, by Kolliker, to be most numerous in the articular extremities of the long bones, in the vertebrae, and the larger flat bones. Minute Anatomy.—The intimate structure of bone, which in all essential particulars is identical in the compact and cancellous tissue, is most easily studied in a transverse section from the compact wall of one of the long bones after maceration, such as is shown in Fig. XIV. The large round spaces seen in the figure are the Haversian canals, and in these canals the larger vessels of the bone ramify. The fine lines leading out of (or into) these canals, are called canaliculi, and the irregular dark Fig-. XIV.—From a transverse section of the diaphysis of the humerus, magnified 350 times. a, Haversian canals; b, lacunae, with their canaliculi in the lamellae of these canals; c, lacunas of the interstitial lamellae ; d, others at the surface of the Haversian systems, with canaliculi going off from one side. Fig-. XV.—Section parallel to the surface from the shaft of the femur, magnified 100 times, a, Haversian canals; b, lacunas seen from the side; c, others seen from the surface in lamellae which are cut horizontally. spaces, which may be noticed to have a general circular arrangement round the Haversian canals, are called the lacuna?,. The canaliculi which originate in one lacuna most frequently run into a neighbouring lacuna, or else into a neighbouring Haversian canal; some of them, however, anastomose with others in their neighbourhood, and a few appear to terminate in blind extremities or to bend backwards. The concentric rings of lacuna round each Haversian canal are called lamellw. The irregular intervals which would be left by the juxtaposition of these lamellae, are seen in the figure to be filled up by lacunae and canaliculi which communicate with the systems composing the adjacent lamellae. The interspaces between the lacunae and canaliculi are filled with a granular homogeneous solid material, the ultimate mineral base of the bone. If a longitudinal section be taken, as in Fig. XV., the appearances are