730 SURGICAL ANATOMY OF FEMORAL HERNIA. The deep layer of superficial fascia, together with the cribriform fascia, having? been removed, the fascia lata is exposed. The Fascia Lata, already described (p. 294), is a dense fibrous aponeurosis, which forms a uniform investment for the whole of this region of the limb. At the upper and inner part of the thigh, a large oval-shaped aperture is observed in it; it transmits the internal saphenous vein and other small vessels, and is called the saphenous opening. In order the more correctly to consider the mode of formation of this aperture, the fascia lata in this part of the thigh is described as consisting of two portions, an iliac portion, and a pubic portion. The iliac portion of the fascia lata is situated on the outer side of the saphenous opening covering the outer surface of the Sartorius, the Rectus, and the Psoas and Iliacns muscles, It is attached externally to the crest of the ilium and its anterior superior spine, to the whole length of Poupart's ligament as far internally as the spine of the pubes, and to the pectineal line in conjunction with Gimber- nat's ligament, where it becomes continuous with the pubic portion. From the spine of the pubes, it is reflected downwards and outwards, forming an arched margin, the outer boundary (superior cornu) of the saphenous opening. This is ^ sometimes called the falcifo^^roces^oi the fascia lata /femoral ligament of Hey) ; '' it overlies, and is adherent to, the sheath of the femoral vessels beneath ; to its j edge is attached the cribriform fascia, and it is continuous below with the pubic portion of the fascia lata by a well-defined curved margin. X The pnhic portion of the fascia lata is situated at the inner side of the saphe- nous opening: at the lower margin of this aperture, it is continuous with the iliac portion : traced upwards, it covers the surface of the Pectineus, Adductorhmgus^ and Gracilis muscjas ; and passing behind the sheath of the femoral vessels, to which it is closely united, is continuous with the sheath of the Psoas and Iliacus muscles, and is finally lost in the fibrous capsule of the hip-joint. This fascia is attached above to the pectineal line, and internally to the margin of the pubic arch. It may be observed from this description that the iliac portion of the fascia lata passes in front of the femoral vessels, the pubic portion behind them ; an apparent aperture consequently exists between the two, through which the internal saphenous joins the femoral vein, j The Saphenous Opening is an oval-shaped aperture, measuring about an inch and a half in length, and half an inch in width. It is situated at the upper and inner part of the thigh, below Poupart's ligament, towards the inner side, and is directed obliquely downwards and outwards. Its outer margin is of a semilunar form, thin, strong, sharply defined, and lies on a plane considerably anterior to the inner margin, If this edge is traced up- wards, it will be seen to form a curved elongated process or cornu (the superior cornu), or falciform process of Burns, which ascends in front of the femoral vessels, and curving inwards, is attached to Poupart's ligament and to the spine of the pubes and pectineal line, where it is continuous with the pubic portion.* * It is difficult to perceive in the recognised description of these ligaments (Hey's and Bunis's), any difference between the two; nor is it clear what structure Mr. Hey really intended to describe. Mr. Gay (on ' Femoral Rupture,'^. 16) gives very cogent reasons for thinking that the ' deep crural arch' was the structure which Hey had in view. The most recent writer on Femoral Hernia speaks thus while treating of these parts:—'The whole upper edge of the iliac fascia lata is commonly called the " falciform process," whilst its deeper fibres receive the name of " Burns's ligament." Hey's femoral ligament would appear to consist of distinct fibres connected with the inner fold of the iliac fascia, w.hicJi extend immediately beneath the tendon of the external oblique to the subperitoneal fascia.' (Callender, ' On the Anatomy of the Parts Concerned in Femoral Rupture,'-p. 19, note.) This description of Hey's ligament accords closely with that of the deep crural arch, for the subperitoneal fascia is Mr. Calender's name for the fascia transversalis. Mr. Callender goes on to say,—'The upper border of this (saphenous) opening thus receives by an unfortunate complication, the names of "Falciform process," "Femoral ligament," ilBurns's or Hey's ligament." The various divisions of the iliac fascia lata depend in great measure upon the skill of the dissector, and are, in my opinion, artificial.'