Ixxi SPINAL CORD. The grey substance of the cord consists of, I. Nerve-fibres of variable, but smaller, average diameter than those of the columns ; 2. nerve-cells of various shapes and sizes, with from two to eight processes ; 3. blood- vessels and connective tissue. Each lateral half of the grey substance is divided into an anterior and posterior horn, and the tractus intermedio-lateralis, or lateral part of the grey substance between the anterior and posterior cornua. The posterior horn consists of two parts, the caput cornu, or expanded extremity of the horn (Fig. XXVII.), round which is the lighter space or lamina, the gelatinous sub- Fig. XXVII.—Transverse section of the grey sub- stance of the spinal cord, near the middle of the dorsal region. Magnified 13 diameters. J. L. Claeke, del. stance and the cervix cornu, or remaining narrow portion of the horn, as far forwards as the central canal. The gelatinous substance con- tains along its border a series of large nerve-cells ; but more in- ternally consists of a stratum of small cells traversed by trans- verse, oblique, and longitudinal fibres. (Figs. XXYIII. XXIX.) Nearly the whole inner half of the cervix is occupied by a re- markable and important column of nerve-cells, called the posterior vesicular column (Fig. XXYII.), which varies in size and appear- ance in different regions of the cord, and is intimately connected with the posterior roots of the nerves. Within, and along the outer border of the cervix, are several thick bundles of longitudinal fibres, represented in Fig. XXYII. by the dark spots; other bundles of the same kind may be seen in the grey substance along the line of junction of the caput with the cervix cornu. (Fig. XXYIII.) The anterior horn of the grey substance in the cervical and lumbar swellings, where it gives origin to the nerves of the extremities, is much larger than in any other region, and contains several distinct groups of large and variously shaped cells. This is well shown on comparing the above figures. The tractus intermedio-lateralis (Fig. XXYII.) extends from the upper part of the lumbar to the lower part of the cervical enlargement, and con- sists of variously shaped cells, which are smaller than those of the anterior cornu. In the neck, above the cervical enlargement, a similar tract re- appears, and is traversed by the lower part of the spinal accessory nerve. Origin of the Spinal Nerves in the Cord.—The posterior roots are larger than the anterior; but their component filaments are finer and more delicate. They are all attached immediately to the posterior columns only, and decussate each other in all directions through the columns; but some of them pass through the grey substance into both the lateral and