VAGINA. A thin layer of spongy, erectile tissue, intermixed with much elastic tissue, lies immediately beneath the mucous coat. The mucous coat is pale, continuous, externally, with that of the vulva, and internally with that of the bladder. It is thrown into longitudinal folds, one of which, placed along the floor of the canal, resembles the verumontanum in the male urethra. It is lined by laminated epithelium, which becomes spheroidal at the bladder. Its external orifice is surrounded by a few mucous follicles. The urethra, from not being surrounded by dense resisting structures, as in the male, adm/ts of considerable dilatation, which enables the surgeon to remove with considerable facility calculi, or other foreign bodies, from the cavity of the bladder. Rectum. The rectum is more capacious, and less curved in the female, than in the male. The first portion extends from the left sacro-iliac symphysis to the middle of the sacrum. Its connections are similar to those in the male. The second portion extends to the tip of the coccyx. It is covered in front by the peritoneum, but only for a short distance, at its upper part, it is in relation with the posterior wall of the vagina. The third portion curves backwards, from the vagina to the anus, leaving a space which corresponds on the surface of the body to the perineum. Its ex- tremity is surrounded by the Sphincter muscles, and its sides are supported by the Levatores ani. The Vagina. The vagina is a membranous canal, extending from the vulva to the uterus. It is situated in the cavity of the pelvis, behind the bladder, and in front of the rectum. Its direction is curved forwards and downwards, following at first the line of the axis of the cavity of the pelvis, and afterwards that of the outlet. It is cylindrical in shape, flattened from before backwards, and its walls are ordinarily in contact with each other. Its length is about four inches along its anterior wall, and between five and six inches along its posterior wall. It is con- stricted at its commencement, and becomes dilated near its uterine extremity ; it surrounds the vaginal portion of the cervix uteri, a short distance from the os, and its attachment extends higher up on the posterior than on the anterior wall of the uterus. Relations. Its anterior surface is concave, and in relation with the base of the bladder, and with the urethra. Its posterior surface is convex, and connected to the anterior wall of the rectum, for the lower three-fourths of its extent, the upper fourth being separated from that tube by the recto-uterine fold of peri- toneum, which forms a cul-de-sac between the vagina and rectum. Its sides give attachment superiorly to the broad ligaments, and inferiorly to the Levatores ani muscles and recto-vesical fascia. Structure. The vagina consists of an external, or muscular coat, a layer of erectile tissue, and an internal mucous lining. The muscular coat consists of longitudinal fibres which surround the vagina, and are continuous with the superficial muscular fibres of the uterus. The strongest fasciculi are those attached to the recto-vesical fascia on each side. The erectile tissue is enclosed between two layers of fibrous membrane : it is more abundant at the lower than at the upper part of the vagina. The mucous membrane is continuous, above, with that lining the uterus, and below, with the integument covering the labia majora. Its inner surface presents, along the anterior and posterior walls, a longitudinal ridge, or raphe, called the columns of the vagina, and numerous transverse ridges, or rugae, extending out- wards from the raphe on each side. These rugae are most distinct near the orifice of the vagina, especially in females before parturition. They indicate its adaptation