FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 7 r 6 external fibro-vascular coat, connected with the surrounding stroma of the ovary by a network of blood-vessels ; and an internal coat, named ovi-capsule, which is lined by a layer of nucleated cells, called the membrana granulosa. The fluid contained in the interior of the vesicles is transparent and albuminous, and in it is suspended the ovum. The formation, development, and maturation of the Graafian vesicles and ova continue uninterruptedly from infancy to the end of the fruitful period of woman's life. Before puberty, the ovaries are small, the Graafian vesicles contained in them minute, and few in number; and few, probably, ever attain full development, but shrink and disappear, their ova being incapable of impregnation. At puberty the ovaries enlarge, are more vascular, the Graafian vesicles are developed in greater abundance, and their ova capable of fecundation. • Discharge of the Ovum. The Grafiaan vesicles, after gradually approaching the surface of the ovary, burst; the ovum and fluid contents of the vesicles are liberated, and escape on the exterior of the ovary, passing from thence into the Fallopian tube, the fimbriated processes of which are supposed to grasp the ovary, the aperture of the tube being applied to the part corresponding to the matured and bursting vesicle. In the human subject and most mammalia, tlie maturation and discharge of the ova occur at regular periods only, and are indicated, in the mammalia, by the phenomena of heat or rut; and in the human female, by men- struation. Sexual desire is more intense in females at this period ; and if the union of the sexes takes place, the ovum may be fecundated. Corpus Luteum. Immediately after the rupture of a Graafian vesicle, and the escape of its ovum, the vesicle is filled with blood-tinged fluid ; and in a short time the circumference of the vesicle is occupied by a firm, yellow substance, which is probably formed from plasma exuded from its walls. Dr. Lee believes that this yellow matter is deposited outside both the membranes of the follicle ; Montgomery regards it as placed between the layers ; while Kolliker considers it as a thickening of the inner layer of the outer coat of the follicle. The exudation is at first of a dark brown or brownish-red colour, but it soon becomes paler, and its consistence more dense. For every follicle in the ovary from which an ovum is discharged, a corpus luteum will be found. But the characters it exibits, and the changes produced in j it, will be determined by the circumstance of the ovum being impregnated or not. Although there is little doubt that corpora lutea exist in the ovaries after the escape of ova, independent of coitus or impregnation, it appears that the corpus luteum of pregnancy (true corpus luteum) possesses characters by which it may be distinguished from one formed in a follicle, from which an ovum has been dis- charged without subsequent impregnation (false corpus luteum.) The true corpora lutea are of large size, often as large as a mulberry; of a rounded form, and project from the surface of the ovary, the summit of the pro- jection presenting a triangular depression or cicatrix, where the peritoneum appears to have been torn. They contain a small cavity in their centre during the early period of their formation, which becomes contracted, and exhibits a stellate cicatrix during the latter stages of pregnancy. Their vascularity, lobulatcd or_rmckered appearance, firm consistence, and yellow colour, are also characteristic marks of true corpora lutea. False corpora lutea arc of small size, do not project from the surface of the ovary, are angular in form, seldom present any cicatrix, contain no cavity in their centre ; the material composing them is not lobulated, its consistence is usually soft, often resembling coagulated blood ; the yellow matter exists in the form of a very thin layer, or more commonly is entirely wanting. False corpora lutea most frequently result from the effusion into the cavities of the Graafian vesicles of serum or blood, which.subsequently undergoes various changes, and is ultimately removed. Dr. Lee states, that in the false corpora lutea the yellow substance is contained within, or attached to, the inner surface of the Graafian vesicle, and does not surround it, as is the case in the true corpora lutea.