PERITONEUM. 617 tures to or from it, are the umbilicus, for the transmission (in the foetus) of the umbilical vessels ; the caval opening in the Diaphragm, for the transmission of the inferior vena cava; the aortic opening, for the passage of the aorta, vena azygos, and thoracic duct; and the oesophageal opening, for the oesophagus and pneumo- gastric nerves. Beloiv, there are two apertures on each side : one for the passage of the femoral vessels, and the other for the transmission of the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. Regions. For convenience of description of the viscera, as well as of reference to the morbid condition of the contained parts, the abdomen is artificially divided into nine regions. Thus, if two circular lines are drawn round the body, the one parallel with the cartilages of the ninth ribs, and the other with the highest point of the crests of the ilia, the abdominal cavity is divided into three zones, an upper, a middle, and a lower. If two parallel lines are drawn from the cartilage of the eighth rib on each side, down to the centre of Poupart's ligament, each of these zones is subdivided into three parts, a middle and two lateral. The middle region of the upper zone is called the epigastric (IttI, over; yarr-i'ip, the stomach) ; and the two lateral regions, the right and left hypochondriac (biro, under; yovdpoi, the cartilages). The central region of the middle zone is the um- bilical ; and the two lateral regions the right and left lumbar. The middle region of the lower zone is the hypogastric or pubic region ; and the lateral regions are the right and left inguinal. The viscera contained in these different regions are the following (fig. 331) :— Right Hypochondriac. Epigastric Region. The right lobe of the The middle and pyloric liver and the gall-bladder, end of the stomach, left the duodenum, pancreas, lobe of the liver and lobulus hepatic flexure of the Spigelii, and the pancreas, colon, upper part of the right kidney, and the right suprarenal capsule. Right Lumbar. Umbilical Region. Ascending colon, lower The transverse colon, part of the right kidney, part of the great omen- and some convolutions of turn and mesentery, trans- the small intestines* verse part of the duode- num, and some convolu- tions of the jejunum and ilenm. Right Inguinal. The ceecum, appendix ca3ci, and ureter. Left Hypochondriac. The splenic end of the stomach, the spleen and extremity of the pancreas, the splenic flexure of the colon, upper half of the left kidney, and the left suprarenal capsule. Left Lumbar. Descending colon, part of the omentum, lower part of the left kidney, and some convolutions of the small intestines. Hypogastric Region. Convolutions of the small intestines, the blad- der in children, and in adults if distended, and the uterus during preg- nancy. Left Inguinal. Sigmoid flexure of colon, and ureter. the The Peritoneum. The Peritoneum {ftzpiTeiveiv, to extend around) is a serous membrane; and, like all membranes of this class, a shut sac. In the female, however, it is not com- pletely closed, the Fallopian tubes communicating with it by their free extremities ; and thus the serous membrane is continuous with their mucous lining. The peritoneum partially invests all the viscera contained in the abdominal and pelvic cavities, forming the visceral layer of the membrane; it is then reflected