SPINAL NERVES. 5^4 Anterior Branches of the Cervical Nerves. The anterior branch of the first, or suboccipital nerve, is of small size. It escapes from the spinal canal, through a groove upon the posterior arch of the atlas. In this groove it lies beneath the vertebial artery, to the inner side of the Rectus lateralis. As it crosses the foramen in the transverse process of the atlas, it receives a filament from the sympathetic. It then descends, in front of this process, to communicate with an ascending branch from the second cervical nerve. Communicating filaments from this nerve join the pneumogastric, the hypo- glossal and sympathetic, and some branches are distributed to the Rectus lateralis, and the two Anterior recti. According to Valentin, the anterior branch of the suboccipital also distributes filaments to the occipito-atloid articulation, and mastoid process of the temporal bone. The anterior branch of the second cervical nerve escapes from the spinal canal, between the posterior arch of the atlas and the lamina of the axis, and, passing forwards on the outer side of the vertebral artery, divides in front of the Inter- transverse muscle, into an ascending branch, which joins the first cervical ; and two descending branches which join the third. The anterior branch of the third cervical nerve is double the size of the preceding. At its exit from the intervertebral foramen, it passes downwards and outwards beneath the Sterno-mastoid, and divides into two branches. The ascending branch joins the anterior division of the second cervical, communicates with the sympa- thetic and spinal accessory nerves, and subdivides into the superficial cervical and great auricular nerves. The descending branch passes down in front of the Scalenus anticus, anastomoses with the fourth cervical nerve, and becomes continuous with the clavicular nerves. The anterior branch of the fourth cervical is of the same size as the preceding. It receives a branch from the third, sends a communicating branch to the fifth cervical, and passing downwards and outwards, divides into numerous filaments, which cross the posterior triangle of the neck, towards the clavicle and acromion. It usually gives a branch to the phrenic nerve, whilst it is contained in the inter- transverse space. The anterior branches of the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves are remarkable for their large size. They are much larger than the preceding nerves, and are all of equal size. They assist in the formation of the brachial plexus. Cervical Plexus. The cervical plexus (fig. 276) is formed by the anterior branches of the four upper cervical nerves. It is situated in front of the four upper vertebra?, resting upon the Levator anguli scapula?, and Scalenus medius muscles, and covered in by the Sterno-mastoid. Its branches may be divided into two groups, superficial and deep, which may be thus arranged :— r Superficialis colli. i f Ascending \ Auricularis magnus. j (^Occipitalis minor. S f Sternal. Superficial Descending. Supra-clavicular J Clavicular. Acromial. f Internal Deep External {Communicating. Muscular. Cominunicans noni. Phrenic, f Communicating, yj^'h^). \ Muscular.