Ixvii NERVOUS TISSUE. The axis-cylinder constitutes about one-half or one-third of the nerve- tube, tlie white substance being' greater in proportion in the nerves than in the central organs. The axis-cylinder is perfectly transparent, and is therefore indistinguishable in a perfectly fresh and natural state of the nerve. It is described by Kolliker as being distinguished from the white substance by the fact that though soft and flexible it is not fluid and viscid, but firm and elastic, somewhat like coagulated albumen, with which it appears for the most part also to agree in its chemical characters. In appearance it is pale and homogeneous, or more rarely finely granular or striated. Beside these nerve-fibres, which consist of two distinct parts, others are found in which only the axis-cylinder can be recognised, surrounded by its medullary membrane, whilst there are again mere primitive fibrils found in various parts which are perfectly destitute of any visible struc- ture, and only recognised as nerves by their connection with ganglionic cells, or with obvious nerve-tubes.* They display a great tendency to become varicose on manipulation. The finely-striated appearance of those nerves, which consist only of the axis-cylinder and its membranous investment, renders it probable that these also are formed of an aggre- gation of the primitive fibrillse. Thus three different kinds of white nerve-fibres are described by recent authorities—viz., I. Those which consist of the axis-cylinder, ensheathed in the white substance of Schwann, the whole being invested by the tubular membrane ; 2. those which consist of the axis-cylinder and medul- lary membrane only ; and 3. the primitive fibrils, of which it is believed that the axis-cylinder of the more composite nerves is made up.f Most of the nerves of the sympathetic system, and some of the cerebro- spinal (see especially the description of the olfactory nefve3 infra p. 496], consist of a fourth description of nervous fibres,J which are called the grey or gelatinous nerve-fibres (fibres of Remak). These consist of a bundle of finely-granular fibrillar, enclosed in a sheath. Nuclei may be detected at intervals in each fibre, which Schultze believes to be situated in the sheath of the nerve* In external appearance the gelatinous nerves are semi-transparent, and grey or yellowish-grey. The individual fibres vary in size—most of them being of smaller size than in the cerebro-spinal nerves, so that the average size of the latter is given at YoVo ^° "a 0V0 oi an inch, and of the former at only half that size; but, on the one hand, the smallest fibrils of the cerebro-spinal system are, as we have seen, of hardly appreciable thickness ; while, on the other, some of the gelatinous fibres (especially those in the olefactory bulb) are said to be three or four times as thick as those of the cerebro-spinal nerves. Chemical composition.—-The following analysis, by Lassaigne, represents * Schultze (Strieker's Handbueli, fig. if, p. 109) represents these primitive fibrils, both in their connection with ganglion-cells and with larger nerves. See also below Fig. XXXIII. t Schultze believes that the primitive fibrils are the essential element of all nerves; thus, according to him, the essential difference between tlie gelatinous and the ordinary nerve fibrils consists in the absence from the former of the white substance (medulla) or Schwann, while the tubular membrane is present. The small nerve-fibres, on the other hand, described as primitive fibrils or naked axis-cylinders, are either destitute of any investment,- or sur- rounded merely by a structureless basement membrane. X The real nature of these fibres has been doubted^ by several authors. It seems better, however, and more consonant with the prevalent opinion, to describe them as truly nervous.'