i56 ARTICULATIONS. III. Articulation of the Atlas with the Occipital Bone. This articulation is a double arthrodia. Its ligaments are tlie Two Anterior Occipito-Atloid. Posterior Occipito-Atloid. Two Lateral Occipito-Atloid. Two Capsular. Of tbe Two Anterior Ligaments (fig. 117), the superficial is a strong, narrow, rounded cord, attached, above, to the basilar process of the occiput; below, to the tubercle on the anterior arch of the atlas : the deeper ligament is a broad and thin membranous layer which passes between the anterior margin of the foramen magnum above, and the whole length of the upper border of the anterior arch of the atlas below. This ligament is in relation, in front, with the Recti antici minores ; behind, with the odontoid ligaments. The Posterior Occipito-Atloid Ligament (fig. 118) is a very broad but thin membranous lamina, intimately blended with the dura mater. It is connected, above, to the posterior margin of the foramen magnum ; below, to the upper border of the posterior arch of the atlas. This ligament is incomplete at each side, and forms, with the superior intervertebral notch, an opening for the passage of the vertebral artery and sub-occipital nerve. It is in relation, behind, with the Recti postici minores and Obliqui superiores ; in front, with the dura mater of the spinal canal, to which it is intimately adherent. The Lateral Ligaments are strong fibrous bands, directed obliquely upwards and inwards, attached above to the jugular process of the occipital bone; below, to the base of the transverse process of the atlas. The Capsular Ligaments surround the condyles of the occipital bone, and con- nect them with the articular surfaces of the atlas; they consist of thin and loose capsules, which enclose the synovial membrane of the articulation. The synovial membranes between the occipital bone and atlas communicate occasionally with that between the posterior surface of the odontoid process and transverse ligament. Actions. The movements permitted in this joint are flexion and extension, which give rise to the ordinary forward or backward nodding of the head, besides slight lateral motion to one or the other side. "When either of these actions is carried beyond a slight extent, the whole of the cervical portion of the spine assists in its production. According to Cruveilhier, there is a slight motion of rotation in this joint. IV. Articulation of the Axis with the Occipital Bone. Occipito-Axoid. Three Odontoid. To expose these ligaments, the spinal canal should be laid open by removing the posterior arch of the atlas, the laminae and spinous process of the axis, and the portion of the occipital bone behind the foramen magnum, as seen in fig. 120. The Occipito-Axoid Ligament (Apparatus ligamentosus colli) is situated at the upper part of the front surface of the spinal canal. It is a broad and strong ligamentous band, which covers the odontoid process and its ligaments, and appears to be a prolongation upwards of the posterior common ligament of the spine. It is attached, below, to the posterior surface of the body of the axis, and becoming expanded as it ascends, is inserted into the basilar groove of the occipital bone, in front of the foramen mag-num. Relations. By its anterior surface, it is intimately connected with the transverse ligament, by its posterior surface with the dura mater. By cutting this ligament across, and turning its ends aside, the transverse and odontoid ligaments are exposed. The Odontoid or Chech Ligaments are strong, rounded, fibrous cords, which arise one on either side of the apex of the odontoid process, and passing obliquely upwards and outwards, are inserted into the rough depressions on the inner side