633 LARGE INTESTINE. The upper portion, which includes about half the length of the tube, extends obliquely from the left sacro-iliac symphysis to the middle of the third piece of the sacrum. It is almost completely surrounded by peritoneum, and connected to the sacrum behind by a duplicature of that membrane, the meso-rectum. It is in relation behind with the Pyriformis muscle, the sacral plexus of nerves, and the branches of the internal iliac artery of the left side, which separate it from the sacrum and sacro-iliac symphysis ; in front it is separated, in the male, from the posterior surface of the bladder: in the female, from the posterior surface of the uterus, and its appendages, by some convolutions of the small intestine. The middle portion of the rectum is about three inches in length, and extends as far as the tip of the coccyx.. It is closely connected to the concavity of the sacrum, and covered by peritoneum-only on the upper part of its anterior surface. It is in relation, in front, in the male, with the triangular portion of the base of the bladder, the vesiculse seminales, and vasa deferentia; more anteriorly, with the under surface of the prostate. In the female, it is adherent to the posterior wall of the vagina. The lower portion is about anjocb in length ; it curves backwards at the fore part of the prostate gland, and terminates at the anus. This portion of the intestine receives no peritoneal covering. It is invested by the Internal sphincter, supported £/ by the L^vatores ani muscles, and surrounded at its termination by the External / - sphincter. In the male, it is separated from the membranous portion and bulb of the urethra by a triangular space; and, in the female, a similar space intervenes between it and the vagina. This space forms by its base the perinaBuni. Structure. The large intestine has four coats: serous, muscular, cellular, and mucous. The serous coat is derived from the peritoneum, and invests the different portions of the large intestine to a variable extent. The caBcum is covered only on its anterior surface and sides ; more rarely, it is almost completely invested, being held in its position by a duplicature, the meso-caBCum. The ascending and descending colon are usually covered only in front. The transverse colon is almost completely invested, the parts corresponding to the attachment of the great omentum and transverse meso-colon being alone excepted. The sigmoid flexure is nearly com- pletely surrounded, the point corresponding to the attachment of the sigmoid meso- colon being excepted. The upper part of the rectum is almost completely invested by the peritoneum: the middle portion is covered only on its anterior surface; and the lower portion is entirely devoid of any serous covering. In the course of' the colon, and upper part of the rectum, the peritoneal coat is thrown into a number of small pouches filled with fat, called appendices epiploicce. They are chiefly appended to the transverse colon. The muscular coat consists of an external longitudinal and an internal circular layer of muscular fibres. The longitudinal fibres are found as a uniform layer over the whole surface of the large intestine. In the caecum and colon, they are especially collected into three flat longitudinal bands, each being about half an inch in width. These bands commence at the attachment of the appendix vermiformis to the cascum : one, the posterior is placed along the attached border of the intestine ; the anterior band, the largest, becomes inferior along the arch of the colon, where it corresponds to the attachment of the great omentum, but is in front in the ascending and descending colon and sigmoid flexure ; the third, or lateral band, is found on the inner side of the ascending and descending colon, and on the under border of the transverse colon. These bands are nearly one-half shorter than the other parts of the intestine, and serve to produce the sacculi which are characteristic of the caecum and colon ; accordingly, when they are dissected off, the tube can be lengthened, and its sacculated character becomes lost. In the sigmoid flexure, the longitudinal fibres become more scattered, but upon its lower part, and round the rectum, they spread out, and form a thick uniform layer. The circular fibres form a thin layer, over the caecum and colon, being especially