cxiv GENERAL ANATOMY. Besides the lower jaw, the inferior maxillary protuberance furnishes a transitory cartilaginous mass—the cartilage of Meckel—from which the malleus and incus are formed. The remains of Meckel's cartilage per- sist as long as till the end of the seventh or the eight month of foetal life, in the form of a rod of cartilage lying inside the tower jaw. From the second pharyngeal arch are formed the stapes and stapedius muscle, the pyramid, the styloid process, the stylohyoid ligament, and the small cornu of the hyoid bone. The great cornu and body of the hyoid bone are developed from the third arch, while the fourth pharyngeal arch enters merely into the formation of the soft parts of the neck, and does not give origin to any special organ. The pharyngeal or branchial fissures are four in number, the fourth being situated behind or below the fourth arch ; the first persists, though only in a portion of its extent, forming the Eustachian tube, the meatus auditorius, and the tympanic cavity. The other fissures are wholly closed by the sixth week. Development of the palate,—The buccal cavity is at first common to the mouth and nose. Then a lamella is given off from the superior maxillary tuberosity on either side, which is directed horizontally inwards. These two palatine lamellae meet in the median line, in front, about the eighth week, and by the ninth week the septum should be complete. The superior maxillary bones proper, and the soft parts covering them, unite at an early period with the incisive bone, and the median portion of the lower lip. The olfactory fossae open into the upper (respiratory) portion of the cavity, forming the nostrils. The student will notice that the various forms of hare-lip correspond to various interruptions of the process of union; thus the ordinary single hare-lip on one side of the median line results from the mere absence of union on that side, between the soft parts which cover the incisive bone and those connected with the proper superior maxillary ; if this occurs on both sides, we have the simplest form of double hare-lip; if, besides this, the intermaxillary bone remains ununited, it usually is carried forward at the end of the vomer, forming the double hare-lip, complicated with projection of the intermaxillary bone : if, added to this, the palatine lamellae also remain ununited, we have the complete degree of fissured palate and hare-lip. < Fissure of the soft palate only, or of the soft and a portion of the hard, represent various degrees of non- union of the palatine lamellae. Development of the nervous centres.—The medullary groove above de- scribed (p. civ.) presents about the third week three dilatations at its upper part, separated by two constrictions, and at its posterior part another dilatation called the rhomboidal sinus. Soon afterwards the groove becomes a closed canal (medullary canal), and a soft blastema is deposited in it, which lines it, corresponding to its dilatations, and, like it, assuming a tubular form. This is the rudiment of the cerebro-spinal axis. As the embryo grows, its cephalic part becomes more curved, and the three dila- tations in the anterior end of the primitive cerebro-spinal axis become vesicles distinctly separated from each other (Fig. LV.). These are the cerebral vesicles—anterior, middle and posterior. The anterior cerebral vesicle (situated at this period quite below the middle vesicle) is the rudi*