226 MUSCLES AND FASCIAE. Dissection. After completing the dissection of the preceding muscles, saw through the lower jaw just external to the symphysis. Then draw the tongue forwards, and attach it, by a stitch, to the nose; and its muscles, which are thus put on the stretch, may be examined. The Genio-Hyo-Glossus has received its name from its triple attachment to the chin, hyoid bone, and tongue ; it is a thin, flat, triangular muscle, placed ver- tically on either side of the middle line, its apex corresponding with its point of attachment to the lower jaw, its base with its insertion into the tongue and hyoid bone. It arises by a short tendon from the superior genial tubercle on the inner side of the symphysis of the chin, immediately above the Genio-hyoid ; from this point, the muscle spreads out in a fan-like form, the inferior fibres passing down- wards, to be inserted into the upper part of the body of the hyoid bone, a few being continued into the side of the pharynx ; the middle fibres passing backwards, and the superior ones upwards and forwards, to be attached to the whole length of the under surface of the tongue, from the base to the apex. 155.—Muscles of the Tongue. Left Side. Relations. By its internal surface, it is in contact wTith its fellow of the opposite side, from which it is separated, at the back part of the tongue, by the fibrous septum, which extends through the middle of the organ. By its external surface, with the Lingualis, Hyo~glossus, and Sfcylo-glossus, the lingual artery and hypo- glossal nerve, the gustatory nerve, and sublingual gland. By its upper border, with the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth (fresnum lingua?). By its lower border, with the Genio-hyoid. The Hi/o-Glossus is a thin, flat, quadrilateral muscle, which arises from the side of the body, the lesser cornu, and whole length of the greater cornu of the hyoid bone, and passing almost vertically up wards, is inserted into the side of the tongue, between the Stylo-glossus and Lingualis. Those fibres of this muscle which arise from the body, are directed upwards and backwards, overlapping those from the greater cornu, which are directed obliquely forwards. Those from the lesser cornu extend forwards and outwards along the side of the tongue, under cover of the portion arising from the body.