GENERAL ANATOMY. Ixii are possibly nucleated cells, cohering in a linear series, the transverse marks between thein corresponding* to their line of junction. Kolliker however, considers i the sarcous elements as artificial products, occasioned by the breaking up of the fibril at the parts where they are thinner. This form of muscular fibre composes the whole of the voluntary muscles, all the muscles of the ear, those of the larynx, pharynx, tongue, the upper half of the oesophagus, the heart, and the walls of the large veins at the point where they open into it. The fibres of the heart, however, differ in several particulars from those of other striped muscles. They are smaller by about one-third, and their transverse striae are by no means so distinct. Fat-cells are also often found in them to a certain extent, even apart from any obvious disease of the organ. They break up much more readily into their smallest elements. There is also much less (if any) connective tissue separating the bundles of fibres ; and Kolliker has described and figured the ultimate fibres as anastomosing with each other. The unstriped muscle, or muscle of inorganic life, is found in the walls of the hollow viscera, viz. the lower half of the oesophagus and the whole of the remainder of the gastro-intestinal tube ; in the trachea and bronchi; in the gall-bladder and ductus communis choledochus; in the pelvis and calices of the kidney, the ureters, bladder, and urethra; in the female sexual organs, viz. the Fallopian tubes, the uterus (enormously developed in pregnancy), the vagina, the broad ligaments, and the erectile tissue of the clitoris; in the male sexual organs, viz. the dartos scroti, the vas deferens, and epididymis, the vesicular seminales, the prostate gland and the corpora cavernosa; * in the ducts of certain glands, as in Wharton's duct; in the capsule and trabecular of the spleen ; in the arteries, veins, and lymphatics ; in the iris ; and in the skin. The fibres of inorganic muscle form flattened bands, interlacing in various directions, and which when viewed without reagents appear nearly homogeneous, though if the organ from which the fibres are taken has been macerated previously for some time in dilute acid, the nuclei can be perceived. Even in fresh fibres the nuclei are occasionally visible. In many situations these fibres, by prolonged immersion in chromic or nitric acid, can be resolved into the elementary contractile fibre-cells of which Kolliker has shown that they really consist; and in some parts, as in the arteries and in the skin, such fibre-cells are found single. They are elongated, their length about ten to fifteen times their breadth ('02/// to 0*4"' in length, *oo2/// to -003"' in breadth, according to Kolliker), con- sisting of a spindle-shaped, homogeneous-looking, fibre-cell, in which a rod-shaped nucleus is faintly visible. Acetic acid dissolves out the granular contents of the cell, and brings the nucleus clearly into view. The unstriped muscle, as a rule, is not under the influence of the will, nor is the contraction rapid and involving the whole muscle, as is the case with the muscles of animal life. The membranes which are composed of the unstriped muscle slowly contract in a part of their extent, generally under the influence of mechanical stimulus, as that of distension or of cold, and then the contracted part slowly relaxes, while another portion * Kolliker describes muscular fibres also in the tunica vaginalis testis.