URETHRA. 695 The Prostatic portion is the widest and most dilatable part of the canal. It passes through the prostate gland, from its base to the apex, lying nearer its npper than its lower suaface. It is about an inch and a quarter in length ; the form of the canal is spindle-shaped, being wider in the middle than at either extremity and narrowest in front, where it joins the membranous portion. A transverse section of the canal in this situation is triangular, the apex directed downwards. Upon the floor of the canal is a narrow longitudinal ridge, the verumontanum^ or caput gallinaginis, formed by an elevation of the mucous membrane and its. subjacent tissue. It is eight or nine lines in length, and a line and a half in height; and contains, according to Kobelt, muscular and erectile tissues. When distended, it may serve to prevent the passage of the semen backwards into the bladder. On each side of the verumontanum is a slightly depressed fossa, the prostatic sinus, the floor of which is perforated by numerous apertures, the orifices ofthe_ prostatic ducts, the ducts of the middle lobe opening behind the crest. At the fore part of the verumontanum, in the middle line, is a depression, the sinus pocularis (yesicula prostatica) ; and upon or within its margins are the slit-like openings of the ejaculatory ducts. The sinus pocularis forms a cul-de-sac about a quarter of an inch in length, which runs upwards and backwards in the substance of the prostate beneath the middle lobe ; its prominent upper wall partly forms the verumontanum. Its walls are composed of fibrous tissue, muscular fibres, and mucous membrane ; and numerous small glands open on its inner surface. It has been called by Weber, who discovered it, the uterus mascyMnus3 from its supposed homology with the female organ. The Membranous portion of the urethra extends between the apex of the prostate, and the bulb of the corpus spongiosum. It is the narrowest part of the canal (excepting the orifice), and measures three-quarters of an inch along its upper and half an inch along its lower surface, in consequence of the bulb projecting back- wards beneath it below, Its upper concave surface is placed about an inch beneath the pubic arch, from which it is separated by the dorsal vessels and nerves of the penis, and some muscular fibres. Its lower convex surface is separated from the rectum by a triangular space, which constitutes the perinaBum. The membranous portion of the urethra perforates the deep perineal fascia ; and two layers from this membrane are prolonged round it, the one forwards, the other backwards ; it is also surrounded by the Compressor urethras muscle. Its coverings are mucous membrane, elastic fibrous tissue, a thin layer of erectile tissue, muscular fibres, and a prolongation from the deep perinasal fascia. The Spongy portion is the longest part of the urethra, and is contained in the corpus spongiosum. It is about six inches in length, and extends from the ter- mination of the membranous portion to the meatus urinarius. Commencing below the symphysis pubis, it ascends for a short distance, and then curves downwards. It is narrow, and of uniform size in the body of the penis, measuring about a quarter of an inch in diameter ; being dilated behind, within the bulb ; and again anteriorly within the glans penis, forming the fossa navicularis. A cross section of this canal in the body of the penis has its long diameter transverse; but in the glans, that diameter is directed vertically. The Bulbous portion is a name given, in some descriptions of the urethra, to the posterior dilated part of the spongy portion contained within the bulb. The meatus urinarius is the most contracted part of the urethra; it is a vertical slit, about three lines in length, bounded on each side by two small labia. The inner surface of the lining membrane of the urethra, especially on the floor of the spongy portion, presents the orifices of numerous mucous glands and follicles, situated in the submucous tissue, and named the glands of Littre. They vary in size, and their orifices are directed forwards, so that they may easily intercept the point of a catheter in its passage along the canal. One of these lacuna?, larger J than the rest, is situated on the upper surface of the fossa navicularis, about an inch and a half from the orifice ; it is called the lacuna magna. Into the bulbous portion are found opening the ducts of Cowpers glands.