255 OF THE THORAX. situated upon the inner wall of the front of the chest. It arises from the lower part of the side of the sternum, from the inner surface of the ensiform cartilage, and from the sternal ends of the costal cartilages of the three or four lower true ribs. Its fibres diverge upwards and outwards, to be inserted by fleshy digitations into the lower border and inner surfaces of the costal cartilages of the second, third, fourth, and fifth ribs. The lowest fibres of this muscle are horizontal in their direction, and are continuous with those of the Transversalis ; those which succeed are oblique, whilst the superior fibres are almost verticle. This muscle varies much in its attachment, not only in different bodies, but on opposite sides of the same body. Relations. In front, with the sternum, ensiform cartilage, costal cartilages, Inter- nal intercostal muscles, and internal mammary vessels. Behind, with the pleura, pericardium, and anterior mediastinum. The Levatores Gostarum (fig. 161), twelve in number on each side, are small tendinous and fleshy bundles, which arise from the extremities of the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae, and passing obliquely downwards and outwards, are inserted into the upper rough surface of the rib below them, between the tubercle and the angle. That for the first rib arises from the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra, and that for the last from the eleventh dorsal. The Inferior levatores divide into two fasciculi, one of which is inserted as above described; the other fasciculus passes down to the second rib below its origin; thus, each of the lower ribs receives fibres from the transverse processes of two vertebra?. Nerves. The muscles of this group are supplied by the intercostal nerves. Actions. The Intercostals are the chief agents in the movement of the ribs in ordinary respiration. The External intercostals raise the ribs, especially their fore part, and so increase the capacity of the chest from before backwards ; at the same time they evert their lower borders, and so enlarge the thoracic cavity transversely. The Internal intercostals, at the side of the thorax, depress the ribs, and invert their lower borders, and so diminish the thoracic cavity; but at the fore part of the chest these muscles assist the External intercostals in raising the cartilages.* The Levatores Gostarum assist the External intercostals in raising the ribs. The Triangularis sterni draws down the costal cartilages; it is therefore an expiratory muscle. Muscles of Inspiration and 'Expiration. The muscles which assist the action of the Diaphragm in inspiration are the Intercostals and the Levatores costarum as above stated, the Scaleni, the Serratus posticus superior, and to a slight extent the Sub- clavius. When the need for more forcible action exists, the shoulders and the base of the scapula are fixed, and then the powerful muscles of forced inspiration come into play; the cjiief of these are the Serratus magnus, Latissimus dorsi, and the Pectorales, particularly the Pectoralis minor. The Sterno-mastoid also, when the head is fixed, assists in forced inspiration ; by drawing up the sternum, and by fixing the clavicle, and thus affording a fixed point for the action of the muscles of the chest. The ordinary action of expiration is merely passive, the resilience of the ribs and the elasticity of the lungs producing a tendency to a vacuum. This causes the ascent of the abdominal viscera covered by the Diaphragm. Forced expiratory actions are performed mainly by the flat muscles (Obliqui and Trans versalis) of the * The view of the action of the Intercostal muscles given in the text is that which is taught by Hutchinson (' Cycl. of Anat. and Phys.,' art. Thorax), and is usually adopted in our schools. It is, however, much disputed. Hamberger believed that the External inter- costals act as elevators of the ribs, or muscles of inspiration, while the Internal act in expiration. Haller taught that both sets of muscles act in common—viz. as muscles of inspiration—and this view is adopted by many of the best anatomists of the Continent, and appears supported by many observations made on the human subject under various conditions of disease, and on living animals in whom the muscles have been exposed under chloroform. The reader may Consult an interesting paper by Dr. Cleland, in the ' Journal of Anat. and Phys.,' No. II.,* May 1867, p. 209, 'On the Hutchinsonian Theory of the Action of the Intercostal Muscles/ who refers also to Henle, Luschka, Pudge, and Baumler, ' Observations on the Action of the Intercostal Muscles,' Erlangen, i860. (In 'New Syd. Soc.'s Year- Book for 1861,' p. 69.)