335 COMMON CAROTID. Peculiarities as to Point of Division. The most important peculiarities of this vessel, in a surgical point of view, relate to its place of division in the neck. In the majority of abnormal cases, this occurs higher than usual, the artery dividing into two branches opposite the hyoid bone, or even higher; more rarely, it occurs below its usual place opposite the middle of the larynx, or the lower border of the cricoid cartilage; and one case is related by Morgagni, where the common carotid, only an inch and a half in length, divided at the root of the neck. Very rarely, the common carotid ascends in the neck without any subdivision, the internal carotid being wanting; and in two cases, the common carotid has been found to be absent, the external and internal carotids arising directly from the arch of the aorta. This peculiarity existed on both sides in one subject, on one side in the other. Occasional Branches. The common carotid usually gives off no branches; but it occasionally gives origin to the superior thyroid, or a laryngeal branch, the inferior thyroid, or, more rarely, the vertebral artery. Surgical Anatomy. The operation of tying the common carotid artery may be necessary in a wound of that vessel or its branches, in an aneurism, or in a case of pulsating tumour of the orbit or skull. If the wound involves the trunk of the common carotid, it will be necessary to tie the artery above and below the wounded part. But in cases of aneurism, or where one of the branches of the common carotid is wounded in an inaccessible situ- ation, it may be judged necessary to tie the trunk. In such cases, the .whole of the artery • is accessible, and any part may be tied, except close to either end. When the case is such as to allow of a choice being made, the lower part of the carotid should never be selected as the spot upon which to place a ligature, for not only is the artery in this situation placed very deeply in the neck, but it is covered by three layers of muscles, and on the left side the jugular vein, in the great majority of cases, passes obliquely in front of it. Neither should the upper end be selected, for here the superior thyroid, lingual, and facial veins would give rise to very considerable difficulty in the application of a ligature. The point most favourable for the operation is opposite the lower part of the larynx, and here a ligature may be applied on the vessel, either above or below the point where it is crossed by the Omo-hyoid muscle. In the former situation the artery is most accessible, and it may be tied there in cases of wounds, or aneurism of any of the large branches of the carotid; whilst in cases of aneurism of the upper part of the carotid, that part of the vessel may be selected which is below the Omo-hyoid. It occasionally happens that the carotid artery bifurcates below its usual position : if the artery be exposed at its point of bifurcation, both divisions of the vessel should be tied nef.r their origin, in preference to tying the trunk of the artery near its termination ; and if, in consequence of the entire absence of the common carotid, or from its early division, two arteries, the external and internal carotids, are met with, the ligature should be placed on that vessel which is found on compression to be connected with the disease. In this operation, the direction of the vessel and the inner margin of the Sterno-mastoid are the chief guides to its performance. To tie the Common Carotid, above the Omo-hyoid. The patient should be placed on his back with the head thrown back: an incision is to be made, three inches long, in the direction of the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid, from a little below the angle of the jaw to a level with the cricoid cartilage : after dividing the integument, superficial fascia, and Platysma, the deep fascia must be cut through on a director, so as to avoid wounding numerous small veins that are usually found beneath. The head may now be brought forwards so as to relax the parts somewhat, and the margins of the wound held asunder by copper spatulse. The descendens noni nerve is now exposed, and must be avoided, and the sheath of the vessel having been raised by forceps, is to be opened over the artery to a small extent at its inner side. The internal jugular vein may now present itself alternately distended and relaxed; this should be compressed both above and below, and drawn outwards, in order to facilitate the operation. The aneurism needle is now j passed from the outside, care being taken to keep the needle in close contact with the artery, and thus avoid the risk of injuring the jugular vein, or including the vagus nerve. ! Before the ligature is tied, it should be ascertained that nothing but the artery is in- ; eluded in it. To tie the Common Carotid below the Omo-hyoid. The patient should be placed in the same | position as above-mentioned. An incision about three inches in length is to be made, parallel with the inner edge of the Sterno-mastoid, commencing on a level with the cricoid cartilage. The inner border of the Sterno-mastoid having been exposed, the sterno-mastoid artery and a large vein, the middle thyroid will be seen, and must be carefully avoided; the Sterno-mastoid is to be drawn outwards, and the Sterno-hyoid and thyoid muscles inwards. The deep fascia must now be divided below the Omo-hyoid muscle, and the sheath having been exposed, must be opened, care being taken to avoid the descendens noni, which here runs on the inner or tracheal side. The jugular vein and vagus nerve being then pressed to the outer side, the needle must be passed round the artery from without inwards, great care