270 MUSCLES AND FASCIiE. Nerves. The muscles of this group are supplied by the musculocutaneous nerve. The Brachialis anticus usually receive an addiiaonaJ £^aiasni_from_ the musculo- spiral^ Actions. The Coraco-brachialis draws the humerus forwards and inwards, and at the same time assists in elevating it towards the scapula. The Biceps and Brachialis anticus are flexors of the forearm: the former muscle is also a supina tor, and serves to render tense the fascia of the forearm by means of the broad aponeurosis given off from its tendon. When the forearm is fixed, the Biceps and Brachialis anticus flex the arm upon the forearm, as is seen in efforts of climbing. The Brachialis anticus forms an important defence to the elbow-joint. Posterior Humeral Region. Triceps. Subanconeus. The Triceps (fig. 171) is situated on the back of the arm, extending the entire length of the posterior surface of the humerus. It is of large size, and divided above into three parts ; hence its name. These three portions have been named, (1) the middle, scapuh|r^rJbn^_iiej|(X, (2) the external, or long humeral, and (3) the internal, or short humeral head. The middle or scapular head arises, by a flattened tendon, from a rough trian- gular depression, immediately below the glenoid cavity, being blended at its upper part with the capsular and glenoid ligaments ; the muscular fibres pass downwards between the two other portions of the muscle, and join with them in the common tendon of insertion. The external head arises from the posterior surface of the shaft of the humerus, between the insertion of the Teres minor and the upper part of the musculo-spiral groove, from the external border of the humerus and the external intermuscular septum: the fibres from this origin converge towards the common tendon of insertion. The internal head arises from the posterior surface of the shaft of the humerus, below the groove for the musculo-spiral nerve, commencing above, narrow and pointed, below the insertion of the Teres major, and extending to within an inch of the trochlear surface : it also arises from the internal border of the humerus and internal intermuscular septum. The fibres of this portion of the muscle are directed, some downwards to the olecranon, whilst others converge to the common tendon of insertion. The common tendon of the Triceps commences about the middle of the back part of the muscle : it consists of two aponeurotic lamina?, one of which is subcutaneous and covers the posterior surface of the muscle for the lower half of its extent: the other is more deeply seated in the substance of the muscle: after receiving the at- tachment of the muscular fibres, they join together above the elbow, and are inserted into the back part of the upper surface of the olecranon process, a small bursa, occasionally multilocular, being interposed between the tendon and the front of this surface. The long head of the Triceps descends between the Teres minor and Teres major, dividing the triangular space between these two muscles and the humerus into two smaller spaces, one triangular, the other quadrangular (fig. 171). The triangular * space contains the dorsalis scapulas vessels ; it is bounded by the Teres minor above, the Teres major below, and the scapular head of the Triceps externally : the quad- rangular space transmits the posterior circumflex vessels and nerve; it is bounded by the Teres minor above, the Teres major below, the scapular head of the Triceps \ internally, and the humerus externally. i Relations. By its posterior surface with the Deltoid above: in the rest of its ex- tent it is subcutaneous. By its anterior surface, with the humerus, musculo-spiral nerve, superior profunda vessels, and back part of the elbow-joint. Its middle or long head is in relation, behind, with the Deltoid and Teres minor; in front, with the Subscapulars, Latissimus dorsi, and Teres major.