201 OF THE PHALANGES. Articulations of the Metatarsal Bones with each other. The bases of the metatarsal bones, except the first, are connected together by dorsal, plantar, and interosseous ligaments. The dorsal and plantar ligaments pass from one metatarsal bone to another. The interosseous ligaments lie deeply between the rough non-articular portions of their lateral surfaces. The articular surfaces are covered with cartilage, and provided with synovial membrane, con- tinued forwards from the tarso-metatarsal joints. The digital extremities of the metatarsal bones are united by the transverse metatarsal ligament. It connects the great toe with the rest of the metatarsal bones ; in this respect it differs from the transverse ligament in the hand. Actions. The movement permitted in the tarsal ends of the metatarsal bones is limited to a slight gliding of the articular surfaces upon one another; considerable motion, however, takes place in the digital extremities. VII. Metatarsophalangeal Articulations. The heads of the metatarsal bones are connected with the concave articular surfaces of the first phalanges by the following ligaments :— Plantar. Two Lateral. They are arranged precisely similar to the corresponding parts in the hand. The expansion of the Extensor tendon supplies the place of a dorsal ligament. Actions. The movements permitted in the metatarso-phalangeal articulations are flexion, extension, abduction, and adduction. VIII. Articulations op the Phalanges. The ligaments of these articulations are similar to those found in the hand; each pair of phalanges being connected by an anterior or plantar and two lateral ligaments, and their articular surfaces lined by synovial membrane. Their actions are also similar. For further information on this subject, the Student is referred to Cruveilhier's 1 Anatomie Descriptive;' to Dr. Humphry's work on ' The Human Skeleton, including the Joints; ' to Arnold's ' Tabulae Anatomicse,' Fascic. 4. Pars. 2. Icones Articulorum et Ligamentorumj and to the papers by Prof. Hermann Meyer (' Beitrage zur Mechauik des menschlichen Knockengeriistes') in Reichert u. Du Bois Reymond's Archiv.