xlviii GENERAL ANATOMY. cartilage may be regarded as one of the costal cartilages, and the cartilage of the nose and of the larynx and trachea resemble them in microscopical characters, except the epiglottis and cornicnla laryngis, which are of the reticular variety. The hyaline cartilages, especially in adult and advanced life, are prone to calcify—that is to say, to have their matrix permeated by the salts of lime, without any appearance of true bone. This process of calcification occurs also, and still more frequently according to Rollett, in such carti- lages as those of the trachea, which are prone afterwards to conversion into true bone. It is on the confines of true ossification that this cal- careous change or degeneration is most liable to occur, so that it is rare to find true bone and true cartilage in juxtaposition at the confines of the normal ossification, as for instance at the joint ends, at the ends of the ribs, in the symphysis pubis and intervertebral cartilages. Fibro-cartilage consists of a mixture of white fibrous and cartilaginous tissues in various proportions; it is to the first of these two constituents that its flexibility and toughness is chiefly owing, and to the latter its elasticity. The fibro-cartilages admit of arrangement into four groups— interarticular, connecting, circumferential, and stratiform. Fig. XII.—White fibrous cartilages from the semilunar disc of the patella joint of an ox. Magnified 100 times. The interarticular fibro-cartilages {menisci) are flattened fibro-cartila- ginous plates, of a round, oval, or sickle-like form, interposed between the articular cartilages of certain joints. They are free on both surfaces, thinner toward their centre than at their circumference, and held in position by their extremities being connected to the surrounding ligaments. The synovial membrane of the joint is prolonged over them a short distance from their attached margin. They are found in the temporo-maxillary, sternoclavicular, acromio-clavicular, wrist and knee joints. These car- tilages are usually found in those joints which are most exposed to violent concussions, and subject to frequent movement. Their use is—to maintain the apposition of the oj)posed surfaces in their various motions ; to increase the depth of the articular surface, and give ease to the gliding movement; to moderate the effects of great pressure, and deaden the intensity of the shocks to which the parts may be submitted. Yirchow describes in the semilunar cartilages of the knee a system of anastomosing tubes, formed