38 THE SKELETON. The Pterygoid processes (irTepvZ, ct wing ; eUoq, likeness), (fig. 36), one on each side, descend perpendicularly from the point where the body and great wing unite. Each process consists of an external and an internal plate, sepa- rated behind by an inter- vening notch,—the pterygoid fossa ; but joined partially in front. The external pterygoid plate is broad and thin, turned a little outwards, and forms part of the inner wall of the zygomatic fossa. It gives at- tachment by its outer sur- face, to the External ptery- goid ; its inner surface forms part of the pterygoid fossa, and gives attachment to the Internal pterygoid. The in- ternal pterygoid plate is much narrower and longer, curving outwards, at its extremity, into a hook-like process of 7»^a++i^^J<^*M ,Ji^a* bone, the hamular process, around which turns the tendon of the Tensor palati muscle. At the base of this plate is a small, oval, shallow depression, the scaphoid fossa, from which arises the Tensor palati, and above which is seen the posterior orifice of the Vidian canal. The outer surface of this plate forms part of the pterygoid fossa, the inner surface forming the outer boundary of the posterior aperture of the nares. The Superior Constrictor of the pharynx is attached to its Uposterior edge. The two pterygoid plates are Separated below by an angular interval, in which the pterygoid process, or tuberosity, of the palate-bone is received. The anterior surface of the pterygoid process is very broad at its base, and forms the posterior wall of the spheno-maxillary fossa. It_supports HMejikei's ganglion. It presents, above, the anterior orifice of the Vidian canal; and below, a rough margin, which articulates with the perpendicular plate of the palate-bone. The Sphenoidal Spongy Bones are two thin curved plates of bone, which exist as separate pieces until puberty, and occasionally are not joined to the sphenoid in the adult. They are situated at the anterior and inferior part of the body of the sphenoid, an aperture of variable size being left in their anterior wall, through which the sphenoidal sinuses open into the nasal fossas. They are irregular inform, and taper to a point behind, being broader and thinner in front. Their inner surface, which looks towards the cavity of the sinus, is concave ; their outer surface convex. Each bone articulates in front with the ethmoid, externally with the palate ; behind, its point is placed above the vomer, and is received between the root of the pterygoid process on the outer side, and the rostrum of the sphenoid on the inner. Development. The sphenoid bone is 37-—Plan of the Development of Sphenoid, developed by ten centres, six for the pos- terior sphenoidal division, and four for the anterior sphenoid. The six centres for the posterior sphenoid are—one for each greater wing and external pterygoid plate; one for each internal pterygoid plate; two for the posterior part of the body. The four for the anterior sphenoid are, one for each lesser wing and anterior part of the body, and one for each sphenoi- dal turbinated bone. Ossification takes 36.—Sphenoid Bone. Posterior Surface. By four Centres. / frraach leseev va-jig bjL7it-jmrt of body 1 for each inf j/Urypl^ Ifor raA yrdat wing b cxi.ptcryg<jp/k/,e Xfureae&. Sxlienoidal turbinated bane