cxii GENERAL ANATOMY. of respiration, and the genito-urinary organs.* The reader is also referred to the chronological table of the development of the foetus at the end of the Introduction. Development of the spine.—The first trace of the future spinal column is found at a very early period of foetal life, constituting the chorda dor salts or notochord (Fig. XLYII.). This is a cylindrical tube, composed of a trans- parent sheath, containing embryonic cells, and extending from the cephalic to the caudal extremity of the foetus below the spinal canal. The proto- vertebrw or primitive vertebrae appear early, as dark spots, which soon enlarge and form quadrangular laminae, one on either side of the chorda dorsalis, commencing in the cervical region. These spread out and bend towards each other, so as to come into contact around the spinal canal and enclose it, forming the rudiment of the future bodies and arches of the vertebrae, as well as of the vertebral and other muscles. This primitive vertebral column is, however, entirely membranous until about the sixth or seventh week, when cartilage begins to be deposited in it. The proto- vertebrae do not coincide with the permanent vertebrae. On the contrary, each primitive vertebra separates into two parts, the upper part belonging to the permanent vertebra, which lies above the point of separation, and the lower one to that below. The chorda dorsalis becomes gradually atrophied, except at the part corresponding to the intervals between the permanent vertebrae, where it forms the intervertebral discs. The par- ticular facts relating to the ossification of the spinal column will be found at pp. 10 et sea. Development of the cranium in general, and of the face.—The foetal cranium is developed from the primitive vertebral discs surrounding the upper extremity of the chorda dorsalis. These advance in the form of a mem- branous capsule, which covers the end of the chorda dorsalis, forming the rudiment of the base of the skull, and moulds itself on the cerebral vesicles, so as to constitute the membrane in which the vault of the skull is developed. The membranous capsule presents at the base of the skull two thickenings (lateral trabeculae of Ratlike) directed forwards, and enclosing an opening (pituitary opening) which is partly closed by a thinner membrane—the middle trabecula. The upper end of the chorda dorsalis terminates in a pointed extremity, which extends about as far forwards as the body of the sphenoid bone, where it becomes lost about the situation of the pituitary body. The membrane becomes replaced by cartilage in the part corresponding to the base of the skull and the tra- beculae. A portion of this primitive cartilaginous cranium becomes atrophied and disappears, a portion persists—forming the cartilages of the nose and those of the articulations; the rest forms the cartilaginous nidus of the basilar part of the occipital, the greater part of the sphenoid, the petrous and mastoid portions of the temporal, the ethmoid bone, and the septum nasi. * The scope of this work only permits the briefest possible reference to these subjects. Those who wish to study the subject of embryology in more detail are referred to Kolliker's Entivickelungsgeschichte, to the chapters on the development of the various organs in the 7th edition of Quain's Anatomy, or to Beaunis et Bouchard, Notiveaiix Elements cVAnatomie descrip- tive et (VEmbryologie; to the latter of which works especially the editor must express his obligations.