LARGE INTESTINE. 631 where it bends abruptly inwards to the left, forming the hepatic flexure. It is retained in contact with the posterior wall of the abdomen by the peritoneum, which covers its anterior surface and sides, its posterior surface being connected by loose areolar tissue with the Quadratus lumborum and right kidney, Figs. 341, 342 : sometimes the peritoneum almost completely invests it, and forms a distinct but narrow meso-colon. It is in relation, in front, with the convolutions of the ileum and the abdominal parietes ; behind, it lies on the Quadratus lumborum muscle, and right kidney. 341.—Diagram of the relations of the Large Intestine and Kidney from behind. The parts uncovered by Peritoneum are shown unshaded. The transverse colon, the longest part of the large intestine, passes transversely from right to left across the abdomen, opposite the confines of the epigastric and umbilical zones, into the left hypochondriac region, where it curves downwards beneath the lower end of the spleen, formiug the splenic flexure. In its course it describes an arch, the concavity of which is directed backwards towards the ver- tebral column; hence the name, transverse arch of the colon. This is the most moveable part of the colon, being almost completely invested by peritoneum, and connected to the spine behind by a large and wide duplicature of that membrane, the transverse meso-colon. It is in relation, by its upper surface, with the liver and gall-bladder, the great curvature of the stomach, and the lower end of the spleen, by its under surface, with the small intestines ; by its anterior surface, with the anterior layers of the great omentum and the abdominal parietes ; by its posterior surface, with the transverse meso-colon. The descending colon passes almost vertically downwards through the left hypo- chondriac and lumbar regions to the upper part of the left iliac fossa, where it terminates in the sigmoid flexure. It is retained in position by the peritoneum, which covers its anterior surface and sides, its posterior surface being connected by areolar tissue with the left crus of the Diaphragm, the left kidney, and the Quadratus lumborum, Figs. 34T, 342. It is smaller in calibre and more deeply placed than the ascending colon.