ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 6l2 nerve and its branches, which emerge at its anterior border; the great auricular nerve pierces the gland to join the facial, and the temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve lies above the upper part of the gland. The internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein lie close to its deep surface. The duct of the parotid gland (Steno's) is about two inches and a half in length. It opens upon the inner surface of the cheek by a small orifice, opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw ; and from this orifice it may be traced obliquely for a short distance beneath the mucous membrane, and thence through the substance of the Buccinator muscle, and across the Masseter to the anterior border of the gland, in the substance of which it commences by numerous branches. The direction of the duct corresponds to a line drawn across the face about a finger's breadth below the zygoma, from the lower part of the concha, to midway between the free margin of the upper lip and the ala of the nose. While crossing the Masseter, it receives the duct of a small detached portion of the gland, socio, parotides, which occasionally exists as a separate lobe, just beneath the zygomatic arch. The parotid duct is dense, of considerable thickness, and its canal about the size of a crow-quill; it consists of an external or fibrous coat, of considerable density, containing contractile fibres, and of an internal or mucous coat, lined with columnar epithelium. Vessels and Nerves. The arteries supplying the parotid gland are derived from the external carotid, and from the branches of that vessel in or near its substance. The veins follow a similar course. The lymphatics terminate in the superficial and deep cervical glands, passing in their course through two or three lymphatic glands, placed on the surface and in the substance of the parotid. The nerves are derived from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic, the facial, the superficial tem- poral, the auriculotemporal, and great auricular nerves. The Submaxillary gland is situated below the jaw, in the anterior part of the submaxillary triangle of the neck. It is irregular in form, and weighs about two