ORGANS OF SENSE 578 ponent particles are flattened, looking like pieces of money seen edgeways; lience it has been called, by Bowman, the nummular layer. The internal or nervous layer is a thin semitransparent membrane, consisting of an expansion of the terminal fibres of the optic nerve and nerve-cells. The nerve-fibres are collected into bundles, which radiate from the point at which the trunk of the optic nerve terminates. As they proceed in a tolerably straight course towards the anterior margin of the retina, the bundles interlace, forming a delicate net, with flattened elongated meshes. The nerve-fibres which form this layer differ from the fibres of the optic nerve in this respect; they lose their dark outline, and their tendency to become varicose; and consist only of the central part, or axis, of the nerve-tubes. The mode of termination of the nerve-fibres is unknown. According to some observers, they terminate in loops; according to others, in free extremities. Recent observers have stated that some of the nerve- fibres are continuous with the caudate prolongations of the nerve-cells external to the fibrous layer. The nerve-cells are placed on both sides of the fibrous layer, but chiefly upon its inner surface, and embedded within the meshes formed by the interlacing nerve-fibres ; they are round or pear-shaped transparent cells, nucleated, with granular contents, furnished with caudate prolongations, some of which join the fibres of the optic nerve, whilst others are directed externally towards the granular layer. It is probable that these cells are identical with the ganglion- corpuscles of vesicular nervous substance. An extremely thin and delicate structureless membraue lines the inner surface of the retina, and separates it from the vitreous body; it is called the membrana limitans. ¥ The radiating fibres of the retina, described by Heinrich Muller, consist of extremely fine fibrillated threads, which are connected externally with each of the rods of the columnar layer, of which they appear to be direct continuations, and, passing through the entire substance of the retina, are united to the outer surface of the membrana limitans. In their course through the retina, they become con- nected with the nuclear particles of the granular layer, and give off branching processes opposite its innermost lamina; as they approach the fibrous expansion of the optic nerve, they are collected into bundles, which pass through the areolae between its fibres, and are finally attached to the inner surface of the membrana limitans, where each fibre terminates in a triangular enlargement. The arteria centralis retinas, and its accompanying vein pierce the optic nerve, ^ and enter the globe of the eye through the porous opticus. It immediately divides into four or five branches, which at first run between the hyaloid membrane and the nervous layer ; but they soon enter the latter membrane, and form a close capillary network in its substance. At the ora serrata, they terminate in a single vessel which bounds the terminal margin of the retina. V The structure of the retina at the j-ellow spot presents some modifications. Jacob's membrane is thinner, and of its constituents only the cones are present; but they are small, and more closely aggregated than in any other part. The granular layer is absent over the fovea centralis. Of the two elements of the nervous layer, the nerve-fibres extend only to the circumference of the spot; but ~>&U the nerve-cells cover its entire surface. The radiating fibres are found at the Ytijr.L .bid I circumference, and here only extend to the inner strata of the granular layer, j-tj ifU>- |> Of the capillary vessels, the larger branches pass round the spot; but the smaller capillaries meander through it. The colour of the spot appears to imbue all the layers, except Jacob's membrane ; it is of a rich yellow, deepest towards the centre, and does not appear to consist of pigment-cells, but resembles more a staining of the constituent parts. Humours of the Eye. The aqueous humour completely fills the anterior and posterior chambers of the eyeball. It is small in quantity (scarcely exceeding, according to Petit, four or five grains in weight), has an alkaline reaction, in composition is little more