Cranial Nerves. ist. Olfactory. 7th. j 2nd. Optic. 3rd. Motor oculi. 4th. Pathetic. 8th. | 5th. Trifacial (Trigeminus). 6th. Abducens. 9th. THE Cranial Nerves, nine in number on each side, arise from some part of the cerebro-spinal centre, and are transmitted through foramina in the base of the cranium. They have been named numerically, according to the order in which they pass out of the cranial cavity. Other names are also given to them derived from the parts to which they are distributed, or from their functions. Taken in their order, from before backwards, they are as follows . Facial (Portio dura). Auditory (Portio mollis). Glosso-pharyngeal. Pneumogastric (Par vagum). Spinal accessory. Hypoglossal. If* however, the 7th pair be considered as two, and the 8th pair as three distinct nerves, then their number will be increased to twelve, which is the arrangement adopted by Sommering. The cranial nerves maybe subdivided into four groups, according to the peculiar function possessed by each, viz., nerves of special sense; nerves of common sensation; nerves of motion ; and mixed nerves. These groups may be thus arranged :— Nerves of Special Sense. ■ Nerves of Motion. Olfactory. Motor oculi. Optic. Pathetic. , hu»U** G; - Auditory. Part of third division of fifth, i P}t2Z£^ Part of glosso-pharyngeal. Abducens. I ^"****^v Lingual or gustatory branch of fifth. Facial. Hypoglossal. Nerves of Common Sensation. Mixed Nerves, Fifth (greater portion). Pneumogastric. Part of glosso-pharyngeal. Spinal accessory. All the cranial nerves are connected to some part of the surface of the brain. This is termed, their superficial, or apparent origin. But their fibres may, in all cases, be traced deeply into the substance of the organ. This part is called their deep), or real origin. Olfactory Nerve, (Fig. 262.) The First, or Olfactory Nerve, the special nerve of the sense of smell, may be regarded as a lobe, or portion of the cerebral substance, pushed forward in direct relation with the organ to which .it is distributed. It arises by three roots. The external, or long root, is a narrow, white, medullary band, which passes outwards across the fissure of Sylvius, into the substance of the middle lobe of the cerebrum. Its deep origin has been traced to the corpus striatum,* the superficial fibres of the optic thalamus, f the anterior commissure, J and the convolutions of the island of Reil. * Vieussens, Winslow, Monro, Mayo. f Valentin. % Cruveilhier.