THE LYMPHATICS. Ixxxvii the above-mentioned parts consist of an internal epithelial lining, sup- ported on one or more layers of areolar tissue. Most veins are provided with valves, which serve to prevent the reflux of the blood. They are formed by a reduplication of the middle and inner coats, and consist of connective tissue and elastic fibres, covered on both surfaces by epithelium; their form is semilunar. They are attached by their convex edge to the wall of the vein; the concave margin is free, directed in the course of the venous current, and lies in close apposition with the wall of the vein as long as the current of blood takes its natural course ; if, however, any regurgitation takes place, the valves become distended, their opposed edges are brought into contact, and the current is intercepted. Most commonly two such, valves are found, placed oppo- site one another, more especially in the smaller veins, or in the larger trunks at the point where they are joined by small branches ; occasionally, there are three, and sometimes only one. The wall of the vein im- mediately above the point of attachment of each segment of the valve, is expanded into a pouch or sinus, which gives to the vessel, when injected or distended with blood, a knotted appearance. The valves are very numerous in the veins of the extremities, especially of the lower extremities, these vessels having to conduct the blood against the force of gravity. They are absent in the very small veins, also in the vena? cava?, the hepatic vein, portal vein and its branches, the renal, uterine, and ovarian veins. A few valves are found in the spermatic veins, and one also at their point ♦of junction with the renal vein and inferior cava in both sexes. The cerebral and spinal veins, the veins of the cancellated tissue of bone, the pulmonary veins, and the umbilical vein and its branches, are also desti- tute of valves. They are occasionally found, few in number, in the vena? azygos and intercostal veins. The veins are supplied with nutrient vessels, vasa vasorum, like the arteries; but nerves are not generally found distributed upon them. The only vessels upon which, they have at present been traced, are the sinuses of the dura mater; on the spinal veins; on the vena? cava?; on the common jugular, iliac, and crural veins ; and on the hepatic veins (Kolliker). The lymphatic vessels, like arteries and veins, are composed of three coats. The internal is an epithelial and elastic coat. It is thin, trans- parent, slightly elastic, and ruptures sooner than the other coats. It is composed of a layer of elongated epithelial cells, supported on a simple network of elastic fibres. The middle coat is composed of smooth muscular and fine elastic fibres, disposed in a transverse direction. The external, or areolar-fibrous coat, consists of filaments of the areolar tissue, intermixed with smooth muscular fibres, longitudinally or obliquely disposed. It forms a protective covering to the other coats, and serves to connect the vessel with the neighbouring structures. The lymphatics are supplied by nutrient vessels, which are distributed to their outer and middle coats ; but no nerves have at present been traced into them. The lymphatics are very generally provided with valves, which assist materially in effecting the circulation of the fluid they contain. These