cvi GENERAL ANATOMY. piratory organs, and the urinary organs. Besides this, however, there are three appendages to the ovum, which must now be described as the amnion, the umbilical vesicle, and the allantois. Formation of the amnion.—The amnion is formed from the external ger- minal layer, which is drawn in on all sides by the changes of shape of the embryo. The embryo as it grows becomes curved at its anterior and pos- terior end, so as to form the cephalic and cuadalflexures (Fig. XLVIII., B) ; it also curves on itself laterally towards the umbilicus (Fig. XLVII. 7), and as it does so, it draws the external germinal layer with it, forming double folds which meet at the umbilicus, and at a point opposite to the umbilicus on the dorsal aspect of the embryo, sometimes called 6 the posterior um- bilicus ' (Fig. XLVIII., 8'), and finally communicates so as to form a deli- cate closed sac, into which a serous fluid—the liquor wmmii—is secreted. This fluid increases in quantity up to about the end of the fifth or the sixth month, when it reaches the amount of about two pints. Thence it diminishes, and at the end of pregnancy is about half its maximum quantity. The outer layer of the amnion encloses all the parts of which the embryo consists, and is in contact externally with the chorion. The portion of the external germinal layer which does not take part in the formation of the amnion is called the vesicula serosa (Fig. XLVIIL, 2'). When the sac of the amnion is completely closed, the vesicula serosa be- comes detached from it, and then forms an envelope to the ovum, lining the primitive chorion. Its future destination appears to be to form the epithelial layer of the secondary or permanent chorion. The allantois (Fig. XLVIIL, al) is a projection from near the hinder part of the embryo, formed by the middle and internal germinal layers, and therefore continuous with the intestinal cavity. The lower part of this cavity becomes the uro-genital sinus, and it is to the urinary tract that the allantois mainly belongs. It projects out from the embryo through the same opening as the vitelline or umbilical duct. The lower part of the allantois which is contained within the embryo becomes the bladder; the upper part of its intra-enibryonic portion is denominated the urachus; the extra-em- bryonic portion is divided into two parts, called the allantoic vesicle, or the epithelial portion of the allantois, and the fibrous or vascular portion. The allantois, which is at first a simple serous membrane, becomes vascular over its whole extent about the fifth week, and its vessels communicate, as will be described presently, with those of the chorion, forming the vascular connection between the mother and foetus. In the human foetus the allantoic vesicle is small, soon withers and disappears, and its vessels are soon limited to the two umbilical arteries and one vein. The allantoic fluid is alkaline and contains from one to four per cent, of solid matters—uric acid, urea, allantoin, sugar, and saline matters. Umbilical vesicle (Figs. XLVII. XLVIIL, 0).—The embryo itself in the earliest recognisable condition is, as above stated, a mere streak, but it soon becomes curved at either end, corresponding to the head and lower extremity of the future animal (the tail of'animals, the buttocks and lower limbs in man); the lower part is, however, open, and from this a body projects which at first consists of the matter into which the yelk has been developed (yelk- sac), and later on is converted into a vesicular body filled with clear fluid (the umbilical vesicle), and communicating with the body of the embryo by a