469 THE BRAIN. the hemispheres of the cerebellum and the medulla oblongata another considerable interval is left between it and the brain, called the posterior subarjM]modiLmn.j^]^ice. These two spaces communicate together across the crura cerebri. The arachnoid membrane surrounds the nerves which arise from the brain, and encloses them in loose sheaths as far as their point of exit from the skull, where it becomes con- tinuous with the parietal layer. The subarachnoid space is the interval between the arachnoid and pia mater : this space is narrow on the surface of the hemispheres ; but at the base of the brain a wide interval is left between the two middle lobes, and behind, between the hemispheres of the cerebellum and the medulla oblongata. This space is the seat of an abundant serous secretion, the cerebro-spinal fluid, which fills up the interval .between the arachnoid and pia mater. The subarachnoid space usually communicates with the general ventricular cavity of the brain by means of an opening in the inferior boundary of the fourth ventricle. The sac of the arachnoid also contains serous fluid; this is, however, small in quantity compared with the cerebro-spinal fluid. Structure. The arachnoid consists of bundles of white fibrous and elastic tissues intimately blended together. Its outer surface is covered with a layer of scaly epithelium. It is destitute of vessels, and the existence of nerves in it has not been satisfactorily demonstrated The cerebrospinal f.uid fills up the subarachnoid space, keeping the opposed surfaces of the arachnoid membrane in contact. It is a clear, limpid fluid, having a saltish taste, and a slightly alkaline reaction. According to Lassaigne, it consists of 98*5 parts of water, the remaining 1*5 per cent, being solid matters, animal and saline. It varies in quantity, being most abundant in old persons, and is quickly reproduced. Its chief use is probably to afford mechanical protection to the nervous centres, and to prevent the effects of concussions communicated from without. Pia Mater. The pia mater is a vascular membrane, and derives its blood from the internal carotid and vertebral arteries. It consists of a minute plexus of blood-vessels, held together by an extremely fine areolar tissue. It invests the entire surface of the brain, dipping down between the convolutions and laminas, and is prolonged into the interior, forming the velum interpositum and choroid plexuses of the fourth ventricle. Upon the surfaces of the hemispheres, where it covers the grey matter of the convolutions, it is very vascular, and gives off from its inner surface a multitude of minute vessels, which extend perpendicularly for some distance into the cerebral substance. At the base of the brain, in the situation of the sub- stantia perforata and locus perforatus,. a number of long straight vessels are given off, which pass through the white matter to reach the grey substance in the interior. On the cerebellum the membrane is more delicate, and the vessels from its inner surface are shorter. Upon the crura cerebri and pons Varolii its characters are altogether changed ; it here j^esents a dense fibrous structure, marked only by slight traces of vascularity. According to Fohmann and Arnold, this membrane contains numerous lymphatic vessels. Its nerves are derived from the sympathetic, and also from the third, sixth, seventh, eighth, and spinal accessory. They accompany the branches of the arteries. The Bkain. The brain (encephalon) is that portion of the cerebro-spinal axis that is con- tained in the cranial cavity. It is divided into four principal parts : viz., the cerebrum, the cerebellum, the pons Varolii, and the medulla oblongata. The cerebrum forms the largest portion of the encephalon, and occupies a considerable part of the cavity of the cranium, resting in the anterior and middle