466 NERVOUS SYSTEM. will be seen to consist of white and grey nervous substance. The white matter is situated externally, and constitutes the greater part. The grey substance occupies the centre, and is so arranged as to present on the surface of the section two crescentic masses placed one in each lateral half of the cord, united together by a transverse band of grey matter, the grey commissure. Each crescentic mass has an anterior and posterior horn. The posterior horn is long and narrow, and approaches the surface of the posterior lateral fissure, near which it presents a slight enlargement. The anterior horn is short and thick, and does not quite reach the surface, but extends towards the point of attachment of the anterior roots of the nerves. Its margin presents a dentate or stellate appearance. Owing to the projections towards the surface of the anterior and posterior horns of the grey matter, each half of the cord is divided, more or less completely, into three columns, anterior, middle, and posterior: the anterior and middle being joined to form the anterolateral column, as the anterior horn does not quite reach the surface. The grey commissure,, which connects the two crescentic masses of grey matter, is separated_froniihrTrff"^ "f thfl antgrjo^ median fissure by the anterior white commissure ; and from the bottom of the posterior fissure by the posterior white commissure. The grey commissure consists of a transverse band of grey matter, and of white fibres, derived from the opposite half of the cord and the posterior roots of the nerves. The anterior commissure is formed of fibres, partly from the anterior column, and partly from the fibrils of the anterior roots of the spinal nerves, which decussate as they pass across from one to the other side. 256.—Transverse Sections of The mode of arrangement of the grey matter, tne Cord, and its amount in proportion to the white, vary in different parts of the cord. Thus, the posterior horns are long and narrow, in the cervical region ; short and narrower, in the dorsal ; short, but wider, in the lumbar region. In the cervical region, the opposite Middle of Cervical rigs crescentic portions are small, the white matter more abundant than in any other region of the cord. In the dorsal region, the grey matter is least developed, the white matter being also small in quantity. In the lumbar region, the grey matter is more abundant than in any other region of the cord. Towards the opposite Middle, # Dorsal reg& lower end of the cord, the white matter gradually ceases. The crescentic portions of the grey matter .^rT^ls. soon blend into a single mass, which forms the only ( V/ J constituent of the extreme point of the cord. The \W^y minute anatomy of the cord is described in the Off o*iu iwmUr region, Introduction. The Brain and its Membranes. Dissection. To examine the brain witli its membranes, the skull-cap must be removed. In order to effect this, saw through the external table, the section commencing, in front, about an inch above the margin of the orbit, and extending, behind, to a level with the occipital protuberance. Then break the internal table with the chisel and hammer, to avoid injuring the investing membranes or brain ; loosen, and forcibly detach the skull, when the dura mater will be exposed. The adhesion between the bone and the dura mater is very intimate, and much more so in the young subject than in the adult. The membranes of the brain are, the dura mater, arachnoid membrane, and pia mater.