343 TEMPORAL. The external brandies are numerous small vessels, which supply the Recti antici muscles, the sympathetic, hypoglossal and pneumogastric nerves, and the lymphatic glands of the neck, anastomosing with the ascending cervical artery/ P<d*Juvu) ■ 0Lfrr%7, The pharyngeal branches are three or four in number. Two of these descend to supply_ the middle and inferior Constrictors and the Stylo-pharyngejis, ramifying in their substance and in the mucous membrane lining them. The largest of the pharyngeal branches passes inwards, running upon the Superior constrictor, and sends ramifications to the soft palate, Eustachian tube, and tonsil, which take the place of the ascending palatine branch of the facial artery, when that vessel is of small size. The meningeal branches consist of several small vessels, which pass through foramina in the base of the skull, to supply the dura mater. One, the posterior meningeal, enters the cranium through the foramen lacerum posterius with the internal jugular vein. A second passes through the foramen lacerum medium : z ■ and occasionally a third through the anterior condyloid foramen. They are all distributed to the dura mater. The Temporal Artery (fig. 209), the smaller of the two terminal branches of the external carotid, appears, from its direction, to be the continuation of that vessel. It commences in the substance of the parotid gland, in the interspace between the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw and the external meatus, crosses over the root of the zygoma, immediately beneath the integument, and divides about two inches above the zygomatic arch into two branches, an anterior and a posterior. The anterior temporal inclines forwards over the forehead, supplying the muscles, integument, and pericranium in this region, and anastomoses with the supraorbital and frontal arteries, its branches being directed from before backwards. The posterior temporal, larger than the anterior, curves upwards and back- wards along the side of the head, lying above the temporal fascia, and inosculates with its fellow of the opposite side, and with the posterior auricular and occipital arteries. The temporal artery, as it crosses the zygoma, is covered bv the A.ttrahens amwn'' muscle, and by a dense fascia given off from the parotid gland : it is also usually crossed by one or two veins, and accompanied by branches of the facial and auriculo- temporal nerves. Besides some twigs to the parotid gland, the articulation of the ^ jaw, and the Masseter muscle, its branches are the Transverse Facial. Middle Temporal. Anterior Auricular. The transverse facial is given off from the temporal before that vessel quits the parotid gland; running forwards through its substance, it passes transversely across the face, between Steno's duct and the lower border of the zygoma, and divides on the side of the face into numerous branches, which supply the parotid gland, the Masseter muscle, and the integument, anastomosing with the facial and infraorbital arteries. This vessel rests on the Masseter, and is accompanied by one or two branches of the facial nerve. It is sometimes a branch of the external carotid. The middle temporal arterij arises immediately above the zygomatic arch, and perforating the temporal fascia, supplies the Temporal muscle, anastomosing with the deep temporal branches of the internal maxillary. It occasionally gives off an orbital branch, which runs along the upper border of th e zygoma, between the, two layers of the temporal fascia^ to the outer angle of the orbit. This branch supplies the Orbicularis, and anastomoses with the lachrymal and palpebral branches of the ophthalmic artery. The anterior auricular branches are distributed to the anterior portion of the pinna, the lobule, and part of the external meatus, anastomosing with branches of the posterior auricular.