SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE PERINEUM. 742 margin, or base, is directed towards the rectum, and connected to the central tendinous point of the perinamm. It is continuous with the deep layer of the superficial fascia behind the Transversus perinasi muscle, and with a thin fascia which covers the cutaneous surface of the Levator ani muscle. The deep perinatal fascia is perforated by the urethra, about an inch below the symphysis pubis. The aperture is circular in form, and about three or four lines in diameter. Above this is the aperture for the dorsal vein of the penis; and, outside the latter, the pudic nerve and artery pierce it. The deep perineal fascia consists of two layers, anterior and posterior: these are separated above, but united below. The anterior layer is continued forwards, around the anterior part of the mem- branous portion of the urethra, becoming lost upon the bulb. The posterior layer is derived from the pelvic fascia: it is continued backwards around the posterior part of the membranous portion of the urethra, and the outer surface of the prostate gland. If the ajrteiior_layer of this fascia is_detacjied on either side, the following parts are seen between it and the posterior layer : the subpubic ligament above, close to the pubes ; the dorsal vein of the penis ; the membranous portion of tho urethra, and the muscles of the urethra; Cowper's glands and their ducts; 'the pudic vessels and nerve ; the artery and nerve of the bulb, and a plexus of veins. The Compressor Urethral (constrictor urethras), surrounds the whole length of the membranous portion of the urethra, and is contained between the two layers of the deep perinaeal fascia. It arises, by aponeurotic fibres, from the upper part of the ramus of the pubes on each side, to the extent of half or three quarters of an inch; each segment of the muscle passes inwards, and divides into two fasciculi, which surround the urethra from the prostate gland behind, to the bulbous portion of the urethra in front; and unite, at the upper and lower surfaces of this tube, with the muscle of the opposite side, by means of a tendinous raphe. Circular Muscular Fibres surround the membranous portion of the urethra, from the bulb in front to the prostate gland behind ; they are placed immediately beneath the transverse fibres already described, and are continuous with the cir- cular fibres of the bladder. These fibres are involuntary. Cowper's Glands are situated immediately below the membranous portion of the urethra, close behind the bulb, and below the artery of the bulb (p. 698). The Pudic Vessels and Nerves are placed along the inner margin of the pubic arch (p. 400). The Artery of the Bulb passes transversely inwards, from the internal pudic along the base of the triangular ligament, between the two layers of fascia, accom- panied by a branch of the pudic nerve (p. 402). If the posterior layer of the deep perineal fascia is removed, and the crus penis of one side detached from the bone, the under or perinaaal surface of the Levator ani is brought fully into view. This muscle, with the triangular ligament in front of the Coccygeus and Pyriformis behind, closes in the outlet of the pelvis. The Levator ani is a broad thin muscle, situated on each side of the pelvis. It is attached to the inner surface of the sides of the true pelvis, and, descending, unites with its fellow of the opposite side to form the floor of the pelvic cavity. It supports the viscera in this cavity, and surrounds the various structures which r pass through it. It arises, in front from the posterior surface of the body and \ ramus of the pubes, on the outer side of the symphysis ; posteriorly, from the \ inner surface of the spine of the ischium: and between these two points, from I the angle of division between the obturator and recto-vesical layers of the pelvic ] fascia at their under part: the fibres pass downwards to the middle line of the f floor of the pelvis, and are inserted, the most posterior fibres into the sides of the apex of the coccyx ; those placed more anteriorly unite with the muscle of the opposite side, in a median fibrous raphe, which extends between the coccyx and the margin of the anus. The middle fibres, which form the larger portion of the muscle, are inserted into the side of the rectum, blending with the fibres of the