ARTERIES. 378 The carpal brandies supply the joints of the wrist. The anterior carpal is a small vessel which arises from the radial artery near the lower border of the Pro- nator quadratus, and running inwards in front of the radius, anastomoses with the anterior carpal branch of the ulnar artery. From the arch thus formed, branches descend to supply the articulations of the wrist. The posterior carpal is a small vessel which arises from the radial artery beneath the extensor tendons of the 220.—Ulnar and Radial Arteries. Deep View. JliicigtomeTfe>i* Mecurreiit 'osigTior Ulna* thumbj. crossing the carpus trans- versely to the inner border of the hand, it anastomoses with the pos- terior carpal branch of the ulnar. It sends branches upwards, which anastomose with the termination of the anterior interosseous artery; other branches descend to the meta- carpal spaces; theyare the dorsal interosseous arteries for the third and fourth interosseous spaces : thev anastomose with the posterior per- forating branches from the deep palmar arch. The metacarpal (first dorsal in- terosseous branch') arises beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb, sometimes with the posterior carpal artery; running forwards on the second dorsal interrosseous muscle, it communicates, behind, with the corresponding perforating branch of the deep palmar arch ; and, in front, inosculates with the digital branch of the superficial palmar arch, and supplies the adjoining sides of the index and middle fingers. The dorsalis pollicis are two small vessels which run along the sides of the dorsal aspect of the thumb. They arise separately, or occasion- ally by a common trunk, near the base of the first metacarpal bone. The dorsalis indicis, also a small branch, runs along the radial side of the back of the index finger, sending a few branches to the Ab- ductor indicis. The princeps pollicis arises from the radial just as it turns inwards to the deep part of the hand ; it descends between, th e A bd n p.tnr in - dicis and Adduptor polHoiSj along the ulnar side of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, to the base of the first phalanx, where it divides into two branches, which run along the sides of the palmar aspect of the thumb, and form an arch on the under surface of the last phalanx, from which branches are dis- tributed to the integument and cellular membrane of the thumb. Carpal ecp fattjx& of Ulnar