TEMPORARY TEETH. internal. The latter is the largest and the longest, slightly grooved, and some- times bifid. In the lower jaw, the root consists of two fangs, one being placed in front, the other behind : they are both compressed from before backwards, and grooved on their contiguous faces, indicating a tendency to division. The second molar is a little smaller than the first. The crown has four cusps in the upper, and five in the lower jaw. The root has three fangs in the upper jaw, and two in the lower, the characters of which are similar to the preceding tooth. The third molar tooth is called the wisdom tooth (dens sapiential), from its late appearance through the gum. It is smaller than the others, and its axis is directed inwards. The crown is small and rounded, and furnished with three tubercles. The root is generally single, short, conical, slightly curved, and grooved so as- to present traces of a subdivision into three fangs in the upper, and two in the lower jaw. Temporary Teeth. The temporary, or milk teeth, are smaller, but resemble in form those of the permanent set. The hinder of the two temporary molars is the largest of all the 321.—The Temporary, or Milk Teeth. External View. TJpp e>v tf cc v Molars Canine Incisors v. Alolars Canine Incisors milk teeth, and is succeeded by the second permanent bicuspid. The first upper 1 molar has only three cusps, two external, one internal: the second upper molar has four cusps. The first lower molar has four cusps : the second lower molar j has five. The fangs of the temporary molar teeth are smaller, and more diverging I than those of the permanent set; but, in other respects, bear a strong resemblance S to them. Structure. On making a vertical section of a tooth (fig. 322), a hollow cavity will be found in the interior. This cavity is situated at the base of the crown, j and is continuous with a canal which traverses the centre of each fang, and opens j by a minute orifice at its extremity. The shape of the cavity corresponds some- I what with that of the tooth : it forms what is called the pulp cavity, and contains a soft, highly vascular, and sensitive substance, the dental pulp. The pulp is