i8o ARTICULATIONS. mentioned. All the bony surfaces of the articulation are covered with cartilage, and connected together by the following ligaments :— External Lateral. Anterior. Internal Lateral. Posterior. The External Lateral Ligament (radio-carpal) (fig. 134) extends from the summit of the styloid process of the radius to the outer side of the scaphoid, some of its fibres being prolonged to the trapezium and annular ligament. The Lnternal Lateral Ligament (ulno-carpal) is a rounded cord, attached, above, to the extremity of the styloid process of the ulna ; and dividing below into two fas- ciculi, which are attached, one to the inner side of the cuneiform bone, the other to the pisiform bone and annular ligament. The Anterior Ligament is a broad membranous band, consisting of three fasci- culi, attached, above, to the anterior margin of the lower end of the radius, its styloid process, and the ulna; its fibres pass downwards and inwards, to be inserted into the palmar surface of the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones. This ligament is perforated by numerous apertures for the passage of vessels, and is in relation, in front, with the tendons of the Flexor profundus digitorum and Flexor longus pollicis ; behind, with the synovial membrane of the wrist-joint. The Posterior Ligament (fig. 135), less thick and strong than the anterior, is at- tached, above, to the posterior border of the lower end of the radius ; its fibres pass obliquely downwards and inwards to be attached to the dorsal surface of the sca- phoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones, being continuous with those of the dorsal carpal ligaments. This ligament is in relation, behind, with the extensor tendons of the fingers ; in front, with the synovial membrane of the wrist. The Synovial Membrane (fig. 136) lines the under surface of the triangular inter- articular fibro-carfcilage above; and is reflected on the inner surface of the ligaments just described. 'Relations. The wrist-joint is covered in front by the flexor, and behind by the extensor tendons; it is also in relation with the radial and ulnar arteries. The Arteries supplying the joint are the anterior and posterior carpal branches of the radial and ulnar, the anterior and posterior interosseous, and some ascending branches from the deep palmar arch. The Nerves are derived from the ulnar. Actions. The movements permitted in this joint are flexion, extension, abduc- tion, adduction, and circumduction. It is totally incapable of rotation, one of the characteristic movements in true enarthrodial joints. Its actions will be further studied with those of the carpus, with which they are combined. VIII. Articulation of the Carpus. These articulations may be subdivided into three sets. 1. The Articulations of the First Eow of Carpal Bones. 2. The Articulations of the Second Row of Carpal Bones. 3. The Articulations of the Two Rows with each other. 1. Articulations of the First Row of Carpal Bones. These are arthrodial joints. The articular surfaces are covered with cartilage, and connected together by the following ligaments :— Two Dorsal. Two Palmar. Two Interosseous. The Dorsal Ligaments are placed transversely behind the bones of the first row; they connect the scaphoid and semilunar, and the semilunar and cuneiform. The Palmar Ligaments connect the scaphoid and semilunar, and the semilunar