s 2 OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 259 MUSCLES AND FASCIiE OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The Muscles of the Upper Extremity are divisible into groups, correspouding with the different regions of the limb. ^ C Flexor profundus digitorum. S ^< Flexor longus pollicis. w ^ L Pronator quadratus. Radial Region. Supinator longus. Extensor carpi radialis longior. Extensor carpi radialis brevior. Posterior Brachial Region. {Extensor communis digitorum. Extensor minimi digiti. Extensor carpi ulnaris. Anconeus, f Supinator fere vis. j Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. ■< Extensor primi internodii pollicis. Extensor secundi internodii pollicis. Extensor indicis. 0 Si CD OS CD >V Of the Shoulder. Anterior Thoracic Region. Pectoralis major. Pectoralis minor. Subclavius. Lateral Thoracic Region. Serratus magnus. Acromial Region. Deltoid. Anterior Scapular Region. Subscapularis. Posterior Scapular Region. Supraspinatus. Infraspinatus. Teres minor. Teres major. Of the Arm. Anterior Humeral Region. Coraco-brachialis. Biceps. Brachialis anticus. Posterior Humeral Region. Triceps. Subanconeus. Of the Forearm. Anterior Brachial Region. Pronator radii teres. Flexor carpi radialis. Palmar is longus. I Flexor carpi ulnaris. LFlexor sublimis digitorum. Dissection of Pectoral Region and Axilla (fig. 168). The arm being- drawn away from the side nearly at right angles with the trunk, and rotated outwards, make a vertical incision through the integument in the median line of the chest, from the upper to the lower part of the sternum ; a second incision along the lower border of the Pectoral muscle, from the ensiform cartilage to the other side of the axilla ; a third, from the sternum along the clavicle, as far as its centre ; and a fourth, from the middle of the clavicle obliquely downwards, along the interspace between the Pectoral and Deltoid muscles, as low as the fold of the arm-pit. The flap of integument is then to be dissected off in the direction indicated in the figure, but not entirely removed, as it should be replaced on completing the dissection. If a transverse incision is now made from the lower end of the sternum to the side of the chest, as far as the posterior fold of the arm-pit, and the integument reflected outwards, the axillary space will be more completely exposed. Of the Hand. Radial Region. Abductor pollicis. Flexor ossis metacarpi pollicis (opponens). Flexor brevis pollicis. Adductor pollicis. Ulnar Region. Palmaris brevis. Abductor minimi digiti. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. Flexor ossis metacarpi minimi (opponens). Palmar Region. Lumbricales. Interossei palmares. Interossei dorsales. digiti Fascle of the Thorax. The superficial fascia of the thoracic region is a loose cellulo-fibrous layer, continuous with the superficial fascia of the neck and upper extremity above, and