DEVELOPMENT OF CRANIUM. cxm As the cerebral extremity of the foetus grows it becomes twice bent forwards on its own axis (Fig. LV.). The upper or posterior curvature is called the cerebral; the lower or anterior, the frontal protuberance. From the anterior end of the chorda dorsalis four prolongations proceed on either side, and meet in the middle line (Fig. L1V., 4, 7, 8,9). These are the pharyn- geal arches, and in them, and in the frontal protuberance, certain bones are Fig. LIV.—Face of an embryo of 25 to 28 days, magnified 15 times. 1, Frontal prominence. 2, 3, Right and left olfactory fossse. 4, Inferior maxillary tubercles, united in the middle line. 5, Superior maxillary tubercles. 6, Mouth. 7, Second pharyngeal arch. 8, Third. 9, Fourth. 10, Primitive ocular vesicle. 11, Primitive auditory vesicle. developed, which are called secondary bones, to distinguish them from those above enumerated, which are formed from the primitive cranium itself. Between the first pharyngeal arch and the frontal protuberance is situated the buccal depression, which afterwards becomes the cavity of the mouth. The frontal protuberance next gives off two lateral parts (lateral frontal protuberances), on each of which a depression is formed, the olfactory fossa, bounded on either side by the internal and external nasal processes. There is a groove external to the external nasal process, which afterwards is transformed into the lachrymal canal, and another groove leading from the olfactory fossa to the buccal cavity—the nasal groove. The first pharyngeal arch divides at its anterior extremity into two parts—a superior and inferior maxillary protuberance. The latter unites very early to its fellow of the opposite side to form the lower jaw. The superior maxillary protuberances are displaced outwards and unite to the external nasal process; from this part are developed the internal plate of the pterygoid process, the palate bone, the superior maxillary and the malar. The lateral masses of the ethmoid, the os unguis and nasal bones are furnished by the internal nasal process. The rest of these processes on either side is united into a single protuberance, the incisive tubercle from which the intermaxillary bone and the middle of the upper lip is formed, and, according to some, the vomer.