xlv FAT. PIGMENT. ADIPOSE TISSUE. The common cellular membrane contains a variable quantity of adipose tissue. This tissue is found also in various parts of the viscera—as the mesentery, the surface of the heart, &c, and fat enters largely into the formation of the marrow of the bones. There is, however, a difference which should be attended to between mere fat and adipose tissue. Adipose tissue consists of a number of vesicles formed by an extremely delicate structureless membrane, round or spherical where they have not been subject to pressure ; otherwise, variously flattened. They are sup- plied and held together by capillary blood-vessels, and fine connective tissue, and each vesicle is filled with fat. Fig. IX.—Adipose tissue, a, Starlike appearance, from crystallisation of fatty acids. High power. Fat is an unorganised substance, consisting of liquid oily matter (glycerine) in combination with certain fatty acids, stearic, margaric, and elaic. Sometimes the acids separate spontaneously before the fat is examined, and are seen under the microscope in a crystalline form, as in the figure. By boiling the tissue in ether or strong alcohol, the fat may be extracted from the vesicle, which is then seen empty and shrunken. Besides the fully-formed fat-cells above described, others may occa- sionally be found in the course of formation, especially in cases of sudden death during robust health. They are described by Eollett as, in the first stage, small round granular cells, provided with roundish nucleus, into the interior of which a strongly-refracting drop of fat is then secreted, which is at first surrounded by a ring of the granular matter, and gradually increases so as to fill the cell. As the granular matter becomes less and less, the nucleus, which can at first be easily recognised, becomes less perceptible, but according to this author can always be brought into view by appropriate reagents. Fat is said to be first detected in the human embryo about the fourteenth week. In various parts of the body pigment is found,, viz. in the hairs, in the iris and choroid coat of the eye, in the lungs, in the nerve-cells, in the rete