3 CHARACTERS OF THE CERVICAL VERTEBRAE. cartilages ; while the transverse and spinous processes serve as levers for the attachment of muscles which move the different parts of the spine. Lastly, between each pair of vertebras, apertures exist through which the spinal nerves pass from the cord. Each of these constituent parts must now be separately examined. The Body is the largest and most solid part of a vertebra. Above and below, it is slightly concave, presenting a rim around its circumference; and its upper and lower surfaces are rough, for the attachment of the intervertebral fibro-cartilages. In front, it is convex from side to side, concave from above downwards. Behind, it is flat from above downwards and slightly concave from side to side. Its anterior surface is perforated by a few small apertures, for the passage of nutrient vessels ; whilst, on the posterior surface, is a single large irregular aperture, or occasionally more than one, for the exit of veins from the body of the vertebra, the vence basis vertebrae. The Pedicles project backwards, one on each side, from the upper part of the body of the vertebra, at the line of junction of its posterior and lateral surfaces. The concavities above and below the pedicles are the intervertebral notches; they are four in number, two on each side, the inferior ones being generally the deeper. When the vertebras are articulated, the notches of each contiguous pair of bones form the intervertebral foramina which communicate with the spinal canal and transmit the spinal nerves. The Laminae are two broad plates of bone, which complete the vertebral arch behind, enclosing a foramen which serves for the protection of the spinal cord ; they are connected to the body by means of the pedicles. Their upper and lower borders are rough, for the attachment of the ligamenta subflava. The Articular Processes, four in number, two on each side, spring from the junction of the pedicles with the laminae. The two superior project upwards, their articular surfaces being directed more or less backwards; the two inferior project downwards, their articular surfaces looking more or less forwards.* The Spinous Process projects backwards from the junction of the two laminae, and serves for the attachment of muscles. The Transverse Processes, two in number, project one at each side from the point where the articular processes join the pedicle. They also serve for the attachment of muscles. Characters of the Cervical Vertebrje (fig. i). The Body is smaller than in any other region of the spine, and broader from side to side than from before backwards. The anterior and posterior surfaces are i.—A Cervical Vertebra. less * It may, perhaps, be as well to remind the reader, that the direction of a surface is determined by that of a line drawn at right angles to it. B 2