403 SCIATIC. Within the pelvis it distributes branches to the Pyriformis, Coccygeus, and Levator ani muscles; some hemorrhoidal branches which supply the rectum, and occasionally take the pjass of the middle hemorrhoidal artery; and vesical branches to the base and neck of the bladder, vesicule seminales, and prostate gland. External to the pelvis, it gives off the coccygeal, inferior glutealT comes nervi ischiadici, muscular, and articular branches. The coccygeal branch runs inwards, pierces the 230.—The Arteries of the Gluteal and Posterior Femoral Regions. ^J.^J^veat sacro-sciatic liga- ment, and supplies the Gluteus maximus, the in- tegument, and other struc- tures on the back of the coccyx. The inferior gluteal branches, three or four in number, supply the Gluteus maximus muscle. The comes nervi ischia- dici is a long slender f>rJl^-^' vessel, which accompanies ^<^W^the great sciatic nerve for a short distance; it then penetrates it, and runs in its substance to the lower part of the thigh. The muscular branches supply the muscles on the back part of the hip, anas- tomosing with the gluteal, internal and external cir- cumflex, and superior per- forating arteries. Some articular branches are distributed to the cap- sule of the hip-joint. fj^±± The Gluteal Artery is the largest branch of_tho internal iliac^and appears to be the continuation of the posterior division of that vessel. It is a short, thick trunk, which passes out of the pelvis above the upper border of the Pyri- formis muscle, and imme- diately divides into a su- perficial and deep branch. Within the pelvis, it gives off a few muscular branches to the Iliacus, Pyriformis, and Obturator internus, and just previous to quitting that cavity a nutrient artery, which enters the ilium. *"The superficial branch passes beneath the Gluteus maximus, and divides into numerous branches, some of which supply that muscle, whilst others per- forate its tendinous origin, and supply the integument covering the posterior D D 2 Superior Aluscultii Suprr tin ternal A rticu7, trior Museu/nr