CHRONOLOGICAL TABLE OF THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE FCETUS. (From Beaunis and Bouchard.) End of second week.—Formation of the amnion and umbilical vesicle. Chorda dorsalis and medullary groove. Heart. Beginning of third week.—The vitelline membrane has entirely disappeared. Protovertebral discs. First pharyngeal arch. Buccal depression. Primitive circulation. End of third week.—The allantois and Wolffian body appear. The amnion is closed. Cerebral vesicles. Primitive ocular and auditory vesicles. Coalescence of the inferior maxillary protuberances. Liver. Formation of the three last pharyngeal arches. Fourth week.—The umbilical vesicle has attained its full development. Projection of the caudal extremity. Projection of the upper and lower limbs. Cloacal aperture. The heart separates into a right and left heart. Spinal ganglia and anterior roots. Olfac- tory fossae. Lungs. Pancreas. Fifth week.—Vascularity of the allantois in its whole extent. First trace of hands and feet. The primitive aorta divides into primitive aorta and pulmonary artery. Conduit of Midler and genital gland. Ossification of clavicle and lower jaw. Cartilage of Meckel. Sixth week.—The activity of the umbilical vesicle ceases. The pharyngeal clefts disappear. The vertebral column, primitive cranium and ribs assume the cartilaginous condition. Posterior roots of the nerves. Membranes of the nervous centres. Bladder. Kidneys. Tongue. Larynx. Thyroid gland. Germs of teeth. Genital tubercle and folds. Seventh week.—The muscles begin to be perceptible. Points of ossification of the ribs, scapula, shafts of humerus, femur, tibia, intermaxillary bone, palate, upper jaw (its first four points). Eighth week.—Distinction of arm and fore-arm, and of thigh and leg. Appearance of the interdigital clefts. Capsule of the lens and pupillary membrane. Completion of the interventricular and commencement of the interauricular septum. Salivary glands. Spleen. Suprarenal capsules. The larynx begins to become cartilaginous. All the vertebral bodies are cartilaginous. Points of ossification for the ulna, radius, fibula, and ilium. The two halves of the bony palate unite. Sympathetic nerve. Ninth week.—Corpus striatum. Pericardium. Distinction between ovary and testicle. Formation of the genital furrow. Osseous nuclei of vertebral bodies and arches, frontal, vomer, malar bone, shafts of metacarpal bones, metatarsal bones and phalanges. The union of the hard palate is completed. Gall-bladder. Third month.—Formation of the foetal placenta. The projection of the caudal extremity disappears. It is possible to distinguish the male and female organs at the commence- ment of the third month. The cloacal aperture divided into two parts. The cartila- ginous arches on the dorsal region of the spine close. Points of ossification for the h