cxxvii DEVELOPMENT OF GENITAL ORGANS. orifice into the urogenital sinus. This constitutes the utriculus hominis or sinus prostaticus. 3. The head olthe epididymis, its canal, the vas deferens and. ejacu- latory duct, are formed, from the canals and from the duct of the Wolffian body. The remains of the Wolffian bodies also form the vas aberrans (see p. 704), and a structure described by Giraldes* and called after him,' the organ of Giraldes,' which bears a good deal of resemblance to the organ of Rosenmuller in the other sex. It consists of a number of convoluted tubules lying in the cellular tissue in front of the cord and close to the head of the epididymis. The descent of the testis and the formation of the gubernaculum are described at p. 706. The External organs of generation, like the internal, pass through a stage in which there 13 no distinction of sex (Figs. LXL, II., III.). We must therefore first describe this stage, and then follow the development of the female and male organs respectively. As stated above, the anal depression at an early period is formed by an involution of the external epithelium apart from the intestine, which is still closed at its lower end. When the septum between the two opens, which is about the fourth week, the urachus in front and the intestine be- hind both communicate with the cloaca. About the second month a trans- verse division (the perineeum) begins to form and divides the cloaca into the anal cavity behind, and the urogenital sinus in front. In the sixth week a tubercle, the genital tubercle, is formed in front of the cloaca, and this is soon surrounded by two folds of skin, the genital folds. Towards the end of the second month the tubercle presents, on its lower aspect, a groove, the genital furrow, turned towards the cloaca. All these parts are well developed at the period shown by ~No. III. of the following diagrams, where the anus is separated from the urogenital sinus, yet no distinction of sex is possible, Female organs (Fig. LXL, A, B, C).—The female organs are developed by an easy transition from the above form. The urogenital sinus persists as the vestibule of the vagina, and forms a single tube with the upper part of the vagina, which we have already seen developed from the united Miillerian ducts. The genital tubercle forms the clitoris, the genital folds the labia majora, the lips of the genital furrow the labia minora, the genital furrow remaining open except below where it unites with the perinseum, constituting the raphe. Male organs.—In the male, the changes are greater from the indifferent type. The genital tubercle is developed into the penis, the glans appear- ing in the third month, the prepuce and corpora cavernosa in the fourth. The genital furrow closes, and thus forms a canal, the spongy portion of the urethra. The urogenital sinus becomes elongated, and forms the prostatic and membranous urethra. The genital folds unite in the middle line, to form the scrotum, at about the same time as the genital furrow closes, viz., between the third and fourth month. * Journ. de Phys., 1861.