SUPERFICIAL CERVICAL REGION. 19 6. Muscles of the Soft Palate. Levator palati. Tensor palati. Azygos uvulae. Palato-glossus. Palato-pharyngeus. 7. Muscles of the Anterior Vertebral Region. Rectus capitis anticus major. Rectus capitis anticus minor. Rectus lateralis. Longus colli. 8. Muscles of the Lateral Vertebral Region. Scalenus anticus. Scalenus medius. Scalenus posticus. 9. Muscles of the Larynx. Included in the description of the Larynx. 1. Superficial Cervical Region. Platysma Myoides. Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid. Dissection. A block having been placed at the back of the neck, and the face turned to the side opposite to that to be dissected, so as to place the parts upon the stretch, make two transverse incisions: one from the chin, along the margin of the lower jaw, to the mastoid process ; and the other along the upper border of the clavicle. Connect these by an oblique incision made in the course of the Sterno-mastoid muscle, from the mastoid process to the ternurn ; the two flaps of integument having been removed in the direction shown in fig. 147, the superficial fascia will be exposed. The superficial cervical fascia is exposed on the removal of the integument from he side of the neck ; it is an extremely {hin aponeurotic lamina, which is hardly ^monstrable as a separate membrane. Beneath it is found the Platysma-myoides auscle, the external jugular vein, and some superficial branches of the cervical dexus of nerves. The Platysma Myoides (fig. 148) is a broad thin plane of muscular fibres, placed mmediately beneath the skin on each side of the neck. It arises from the clavicle ind acromion, and from the fascia covering the upper part of the Pectoral, Deltoid, md Trapezius muscles ; its fibres proceed obliquely upwards and inwards along he side of the neck, to be inserted into the lower jaw beneath the external oblique line, some passing forwards to the angle of the mouth, and others becoming lost "n the cellular tissue of the face. The most anterior fibres interlace, in front of the jaw, with the fibres of the muscle of the opposite side ; those next in order become blended with the Depressor labii inferioris and the Depressor anguli oris ; Dthers are prolonged upon the side of the cheek, and interlace, near the angle of bhe mouth, with the muscles in this situation, and may occasionally be traced to the Zygomatic muscles, or to the margin of the Orbicularis palpebrarum. Beneath the Platysma, the external jugular vein may be seen descending from the angle of the jaw to the clavicle. It is essential to remember the direction of the fibres of the Platysma, in connection with the operation of bleeding from this vessel; for if the point of the lancet is introduced in the direction of the muscular fibres, the orifice made will be filled up by the contraction of the muscle, and blood will not flow ; but if the incision is made across the course of the fibres, they will retract, and expose the orifice in the vein, and so facilitate the flow of blood. Relations. By its external surface, with the integument, to which it is united closely below, but more loosely above. By its internal surface, with the Pectoralis major, Deltoid, and Trapezius, and with the clavicle. In the neck, with the external and anterior jugular veins, the deep cervical fascia, the super- ficial cervical plexus, the Sterno-mastoid, Sterno-hyoid, Omo-hyoid, and Digastric muscles. In front of the Sterno-mastoid, it covers the sheath of the carotid vessels ; and behind it, the Scaleni muscles and the nerves of the brachial plexus. On the face, it is in relation with the parotid gland, the facial artery and vein, and the Masseter and Buccinator muscles. The deep cervical fascia is exposed on the removal of the Platysma myoides