PROFUNDA. muscles on the back of the thigh, anastomosing with branches of the popliteal and. inferior perforating arteries. Relations. Behind, it lies first npon the Iliacus, and then on the Adductor brevis and Adductor magnus muscles. In front, it is separated from the femoral artery, above by the femoral and profunda veins, and below by the Adductor longus. On its outer side, the origin of the Vastus internus separates it from the femur. Plan of the Relations op the Profunda Artery. In front. Femoral and profunda veins. Adductor kmgi Outer side. Vastus internus. j^>-v/ Tub** Behind. Iliacus. Adductor brevis. Adductor magnus. The External Circumflex Artery supplies the muscles on the front of the thigh. It arises from the outer side of the profunda, passes horizontally outwards, between the divisions of the anterior crural nerve, and beneath the Sartorius and Rectus, muscles, and divides into three sets of branches, ascending, transverse, and descending. The ascending branches pass upwards, beneath f,hp Tprmpr vagina frmoris muscle, to the outer side of the hip, anastomosing with the terminal branches of the gluteal and circumflex iliac arteries. The descending branches, three or four in number, pass downwards, freneath the Rectus, upon the Vasti muscles, to which they are distributed, one or two passing beneath the Vastus externus as far as the knee, anastomosing with the superior articular branches of the popliteal artery. ^ f ^^^^J The transverse branches, the smallest and least numerous, pass outwards over the Cruraeus, pierce the Vastus externus, and wind round the femur to its back part, just below the great trochanter, anastomosing at the back of the thigh with the internal circumflex, sciatic, and superior perforating arteries. The Internal Circumflex Artery, smaller than the external, arises from the inner and back part of the profunda, and winds round the inner side of the femur, between the Pectineus and Psoas muscles. On reaching the tendon of the Obturator externus, it gives off two branches, one of which ascends to be dis- tributed to the Adductor muscles, the Gracilis, and Obturator externus, anasto- mosing with the obturator artery; the other descends, and passes beneath the Adductor brevis, to supply it and the great Adductor ; while the continuation of the vessel passes backwards, between the Quadratus femoris and upper border of the Adductor magnus, anastomosing with the sciatic, external circumflex, and superior perforating arteries. Opposite the hip-joint, this branch gives off an articular vessel, which enters the joint beneath the transverse ligament; and after supplying the adipose tissue, passes along the round ligament to the head of the bone. The Perforating Arteries (fig. 230), usually three in number, are so called from their perforating the tendons of the Adductor brevis and magnus muscles to reach the back of the thigh. The first is given off from the Adductor brevis, the second in front of that muscle, and the third immediately below it. The first or superior perforating artery passes backwards between the Pectineus I and Addnf-tnr hrpvia (sometimes perforates the latter) ; it then pierces the Adductor magnus close to the linea aspera, and divides into branches which supply both Adductors, the Biceps, and Gluteus maximus muscle ; anastomosing with the sciatic, internal circumflex, and middle perforating arteries.