OPERATION FOR 141. from the first accession of the strangulation. The principal guide, then, in deciding as to the proper moment for relinquish- ing the employment of the taxis, and other milder remedies for the operation, appears to be the degree of tenderness and ten- sion of the belly ; for if this be at all considerable, and especially if increasing, then it is evident that no time is to be lost. The justly celebrated Mr. Hey writes thus: “ I have now performed the operation forty times; and have often had occasion to la- ment that I performed it too late, but never that I had performed it too soon.,,j' The bladder should be emptied before the operation is per- formed, as instances have occurred in which it was wounded while dividing the stricture.j: The operation may be done as the patient lies in bed, or he may be placed upon a table properly prepared for the purpose. The surgeon places himself on the same side as the hernia, and commences the first incision one inch above the situation of the crural ring, extending it obliquely downwards and outwards, over the centre of the tumour below the crural arch. The ob- ject of beginning the incision so much above the superior edge of the tumour, is to obtain plenty of room over the neck of the sac, which must be freely exposed, so as to permit of its di- vision with the probe-pointed bistoury, in a latter part of the operation, with greater ease and safety. The least painful and most expeditious way of making this incision, is to pinch up the integuments, so as to make a fold obliquely across the tu- mour, through which fold the bistoury should be passed with its back turned towards the tumour, and then carried, at one stroke, outwards to the surface. Many surgeons prefer making the first incision over the tu- mour parallel with Poupart’s ligament, and then meeting it at the centre by another cut, which is carried obliquely upwards and in- wards over the neck of the sac, so as to resemble the letter j, reversed ; while others, again, recommend a crucial incision. The form of the incision is, however, of little importance, provided that it is made in such a manner as to disclose freely the neck of the sac at its upper and internal part.$ If it be a large hernia, the ■f Hey’s Surgery, 2d edit, page 130. X Op. citat. p. 156; in which a case in the practice of a surgeon of some eminence is mentioned, where this accident actually occured. § Mr. Cooper’s Surgical Dictionary, p. 738, 7th edit.