202 SPONTANEOUS DISLOCATIONS. wards. It Avill be useful, when the extension has been steadily kept up for a few minutes, to raise the head of the bone from its situation upon the pubes by means of another bandage applied round the upper part of the thigh close to the pe- rinseum. Spontaneous dislocations of the hip-joint. — The head of the thigh-bone is sometimes dislocated in consequence of disease of the ligamentous and osseous structures which form the hip-joint; this kind of luxation (on account of the great power of the muscles which are inserted into the upper part of the thigh-bone) most frequently takes place in the di- rection upAvards and outwards upon the dorsum of the ilium, or upAvards upon the horizontal branch of the pelvis ; but in such cases as these no attempt ought to be made to re- store the length of the limb, as it would not only prove to be vain and fruitless, but probably productive of so much excite- ment in the parts surrounding and connected with the joint, as to be greatly injurious to the safety of the patient. In all these cases, as well as in those accidental dislocations Avhere reduction has not been effected for many months, the head of the thigh- bone soon undergoes changes in its figure, which adapt it better to occupy its new situation, at the same time that a neAv cavity is formed for its reception by an ossific deposit from the surface of the bone upon which it has been thrown, while the original acetabulum becomes gradually diminished in size, and frequently filled up by a soft fungous-looking mass. I Fractures of the os innominatum involving, as they frequently do, the acetabulum, might be mistaken, from the shortening and inversion of the limb with which they are accompanied, for a dislocation of the head of the bone upwards, or a fracture of the neck of the femur ; j but, on a closer examination, the great mobility of the parts, and the ease with which the length of the limb can be restored by a moderate degree of extending poAver, joined with the crepitus which can be felt on handling the cristse of the ilia, will always suffice to establish a correct diagnosis. In these accidents it is always proper to introduce the catheter, as the urethra may have been torn by the sharp t Numerous specimens illustrative of the various changes that occur in the acetabulum and head of the thigh-bone under these circumstances, are to be seen in the museum of University College. t Sir Astley Cooper on Fractures and Dislocations, p. 95.