83 EXTENT OF THE REGION OF THE GROIN. There yet remains to be observed a still deeper hollow, upon the pubal side of the great femoral artery and vein, which is limited superiorly and internally by the tuberosity of the os pubis and the adductor longus muscle. It is in the situation of this depression that the tumour of a femoral hernia protrudes externally. (See Plate IV. fig. 3, and also Plate VI. figs. 1 and 2.) The principal diseases which, by their occurrence within its limits, demand from the surgical student a perfect and intimate acquaintance with the anatomy of the region of the groin, are, buboes and other abscesses, aneurism and wounds of the great vessels, varix of the saphena vein, with encysted and other tumours ; the diseases and injuries of the hip-joint; and lastly, but not the least important, from the great frequency of its existence, arid the delicate operations required for its relief, the femoral or crural hernia. When we take up a dried preparation of the bones of the pelvis, from which all the soft parts that naturally invest them have been removed, with the exception of the ligaments, which are extended across from one bone to the other, and serve to connect them together, or to give attachment to muscles, we observe, on each side of the cristse of the ossa pubis, a large, deep, and irregular excavation of the anterior margin of the ossa innominata, which extends outwards, as far as to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. (See the wood-engraving, No. I. a, b, c, d, e, f.) If we trace the margin of the bone between the two above-mentioned points, we shall find that several eminences and depressions are situated along the border of the excavated space, which give rise to the inequality of out- line alluded to : thus, for example, there is, a little distance from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium (a), and separated from it by a deeply curved depression, another pro- minence (the anterior inferior sjnnous process, f,) which gives attachment to one of the tendons of the rectus muscle ; pass- ing along in a direction towards the mesial line, we soon meet with another elevation in the margin of the bone (the ileo-pec- tincal eminence, e,) situated immediately above the acetabulum, and indicating the junction of the bones of the ilium and pu- bis, which existed separately in the young subject, previously to the completion of the developcment of the osseous system. g 2