THE FUNNEL-SHAPED SHEATH 120 EXPLANATION OF PLATE IV. This plate represents the funnel-shaped sheath of the great femoral vessels, as it is exposed by removing the fascia lata co- vering the muscles of the upper and anterior part of the thigh, and dissecting the subjacent vessels and nerves. The sheath of the vessels has been laid open in such a manner as to show the three compartments into which it is subdivided by the septa, which, springing up on each side of the femoral vein, connect the anterior and posterior parietes together. a. The anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. b. The spinous process of the os pubis. c. c. Poupart’s ligament. d. Gimbernat’s ligament. e. The deep crescentic arch which is formed by a connexion between the fascia trausversalis (t. t.) and some tendinous fibres which lie parallel with and behind Poupart’s ligament. f. The sartorius muscle. g. The adductor longus muscle. h. The pectineus muscle. i. The iliacus muscle. k. The psoas muscle. l. The gracilis muscle. m. The rectus and vastus interims muscles covered by the fascia lata of the thigh. n. The fleshy fibres of the external oblique muscle of the ab- domen. o. The tendinous aponeurosis of the same, which is crossed by the intercolumnar fibres. p. The external abdominal ring. q. The spermatic cord held aside by a pin. The spermatic ar- tery is seen as it runs along the posterior side of the cord. r. The trunk pf the anterior crural nerve dividing into a lash of branches, two of which (the long and short saphenous nerves) accompany the superficial femoral artery. s. The external cutaneous nerve. t. t. The anterior wall of the funnel-shaped sheath of the ves- sels, which is formed by the fascia transversalis. (See the wood-engraving No. 3, at page 89, fig. *.) It has been cut open in order to show the compartments that contain the femoral vessels and the crural canal. u. u. The thin membranous septa, or partitions, which connect the anterior and posterior parietes of the sheath together, and separate the common femoral vein on one side from the artery, and on the other from the crural canal.