THE POPLITEAL VEIN. 181 anterior and posterior tibial arteries commence their course between the condyles of the femur, instead of opposite the lower border of the popliteus muscle.-J- Portal states having seen two arteries of equal size in the ham, which resulted from a high division of the femoral artery.-f* The popliteal vein.—The popliteal vein is formed by the junction with each other of the venae comites of the anterior and posterior tibial arteries; it ascends through the ham, lying at first behind the artery, but as it approaches the opening in the triceps it gradually inclines towards its posterior and ex- ternal edge. The coats of this vein are extremely thick and strong; and it is so closely connected with the artery, to the external border of which it clings by means of the small contri- butory branches which open into it, and which correspond with the branches of the popliteal artery, that much caution is re- quired to carry an aneurism needle safely round the latter vessel without including the vein, or doing some injury to its coats by the point of the instrument. In the operation of placing a liga- ture upon the popliteal artery, it is advisable to pass the needle around the vessel from without inwards ; as the point of the in- strument is much less likely to injure the vein when it is carried round the artery in this direction than in the opposite course. Very frequently there are two popliteal veins, and then the artery is situated between them, and is crossed at various points by several small branches of communication, which pass from one venous trunk to the other. ^ The popliteal vein receives several small branches as it ascends through the popliteal space, the chief number of which correspond with the branches given off from the artery. The posterior saphena vein usually empties itself into the popliteal vein, dipping down between the heads of the gastrocnemius muscle ; though occasionally it will be found to take a different course, and, instead of opening into the popliteal vein, to con- tinue to ascend through the ham underneath the fascia lata, f Dr. Ramsay has given a drawing of a preparation, in which the anterior tibial artery runs between the popliteus muscle and the back part of the knee-joint. In that case the popliteal artery divided between the condyles of the femur. Also, a System of Operative Surgery, by Wm. Hargrave, p. 86. t M. Portal, Anatomie Medicale, tom. iii. p. 326. § Vide the Lancet for 1837, p. 905.