THE FEMORAL ARTERY. 161 down the leg in close relation with the internal saphena vein. (See Plates IV. and VII.) Several delicate filaments of the anterior crural nerve cross obliquely over the vessels as they descend upon the thigh, and must frequently be included within the ligature when the femoral artery is tied in the usual situa- tion ; but their size is much too small to render them of any particular importance. One of these smaller branches may be seen lying upon the artery in the Plates IV. and VII.j* There are three or four small lymphatic glands situated upon the femoral artery; these may become enlarged, and simulate an aneurismal tumour from having a pulsation communicated to them from the subjacent vessel. Ulceration of the inguinal glands may extend to the coats of the femoral artery, and so give rise to a fatal hemorrhage ; an accident which I have seen occur in a case of a phagedenic ulcer following a venereal bubo in the left groin. Branches of the femoral artery.— The profunda artery arises from the external and posterior surface of the common femoral, usually from an inch and a-lialf to two inches below Poupart’s ligament. (See Plate VII. fig. 8.) It is not unfre- quently, however, found to arise from the femoral much higher than this point, and, in some instances, opposite the lower bor- der of the crural arch : occasionally, indeed, it is given off from the external iliac artery. Immediately after its origin, the profunda runs a little back- wards and outwards, in front of the psoas and iliacus muscles; but it soon changes its direction, and, inclining inwards, passes behind the superficial femoral artery and vein, and gets under cover of the adductor longus muscle; between which and the ad- ductor magnus, it continues to descend, gradually approaching the linea aspera of the femur, near which it pierces the fibres of the last-named muscle, and is finally lost among the flexor muscles on the posterior aspect of the limb. Near to its origin from the common femoral, the profunda gives off two large branches, which are named the external and internal circumflex arte- ries ; and, as it runs underneath the abductor longus, it fur- t The great pain which is occasionally felt by patients in whom the femoral artery is tied, when the knot of the ligature is drawn tight, is, doubt- less, caused by one of these delicate nerves having been included within the circle of the thread. M