88 THE CRURAL RING. the sheath more firmly together, o. marks the fleshy fibres of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen, where it is about to terminate in the ten- dinous aponeurosis q, near which some curved fibres are seen crossing) almost at right angles, the fibres of the aponeurosis, serving to bind toge- ther the pillars of the inguinal ring, and hence named the intercolumnar fibres, p. The external abdominal ring, which is situated just above the spine of the os pubis. The crural ring -j- is the oval-shaped space which is bound- ed in front by the thin posterior edge of Poupart’s ligament (m); behind by the pecten, or horizontal branch of the os pubis (d); externally by the great femoral vein (v), or rather the septum which separates that vessel from the lymphatics ; and on the inner, or pubal side, by the lunated border of Gimbernat’s ligament (n). It is owing to the larger size of the crural ring in women, combined as it is in them with smaller inguinal rings, as compared with the size of the same space in the male sub- ject, that the more frequent occurrence of femoral hernia in the female sex is, in all probability, to be mainly attributed. j Upon making an examination of the crural arch from its internal surface, when the cavity of the abdomen has been fairly laid open to view by a crucial incision of its anterior parietes, it will be found, after the peritonaeum and subserous cellular tissue have been removed from the internal surface •of the transversalis and rectus muscles, and the iliac fossa, that the space between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the external iliac vessels, in addition to being closed up by the nerves and muscles mentioned above, is greatly fortified by the peculiar manner in which the strong mem- branous expansion that binds down the psoas and iliacus muscles (the fascia iliaca) is connected to the posterior edge of Pou- part’s ligament, where it joins with a similar membrane invest- ing the internal surface of the transversalis and rectus muscles (the fascia transversalis); the point of their conjunction being distinguished by a dense whitish line, or band, situated imme- diately behind and parallel with the crural arch. It is, doubt- f The crural ring was described by Mr. Hey under the term of the Femoral ring; and by others as the Upper, or Posterior, opening of the crural or femoral canal. By Sir Aslley Cooper it is called the Femoral aperture. + Vide Observations on Crural Hernia, by Alex. Monro, jun. M.D.; Edin. 8vo. 1803, p. 55.