178 THE POPLITEAL ARTERY. gastrocnemius and solcus. The fleshy fibres of the muscle are not more than two inches in length; and, taking their origin from the capsular ligament of the knee-joint covering the posterior surface of the external condyle, soon end in a long and delicate tendon, which descends obliquely from without inwards to its in- sertion into the inner part of the os calcis by the side of the tendo Achillis: the plantaris muscle is not unfrequently ab- sent, or partially deficient. The popliteal artery.—The superficial femoral artery as- sumes, as it enters the cavity of the ham after passing through the opening in the triceps adductor, the name of the popliteal artery ; which appellation it retains until it has reached as far as the lower border of the popliteus muscle, where it terminates by dividing into two large branches,—the anterior, and posterior tibial arteries. The popliteal artery thus extends from the commence- ment of the inferior third of the thigh to below the superior fourth of the leg, and its length may be estimated in the adult at about seven inches. The direction of the course of the vessel is at first slightly oblique, downwards and outwards, (see PlateVIII. fig.m,) until it gains the deep hollow between the condyles of the femur; after which it runs vertically downwards to its termination. Relations.—The popliteal artery corresponds by its anterior aspect with the flat surface of the lower part of the femur, the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, and the popliteus muscle; from which structures it is only separated by a thin layer of loose adipose substance, which enables the artery to accom- modate itself more readily to the various and extensive motions of the articulation behind which it is situated. The popliteal artery is covered, posteriorly, by the large mass of fat which occupies the greater part of the popliteal cavity, and by the skin and fascia lata. The popliteal vein lies along the pos- terior and external edge of the artery, to the outer coat of which it is very closely connected by the dense cellular tissue which forms here the sheath of the vessels. The sciatic nerve is much more superficial than either the artery or vein ; and is, moreover, placed somewhat external to them both, except towards the lower part of the ham, where its internal division, the poste- rior tibial nerve, is situated directly behind the vessels. (Figs. h, i, k, /, m.) By its internal border, the popliteal artery is in relation with the semi-membranosus muscle, which slightly over- laps it in the first part of its course; so that it is requisite that