150 TREATMENT AFTER THE OPERATION. procuring of evacuations from the alimentary canal. The best method of producing these is to throw up a copious enema, which will, in the greater number of instances, be speedily followed by plentiful evacuations, with a marked relief to the pain, sick- ness, and vomiting. It may be sometimes necessary to acce- lerate the action of the intestinal canal by purgatives admi- nistered by the mouth; and of these a table-spoonful of castor oil with a few drops of laudanum, or dram doses of the sulphate of magnesia in peppermint-water, given every hour, are the best. The earliest appearances of peritonseal inflammation should, be anxiously watched for during the first few days after the per- formance of the operation; and, should they supervene, com- batted at their commencement by vensesection, if the patient’s strength will admit of it, and leeches to the belly, which may be followed by fomentations, and a large blister. In cases where the operation has been had recourse to early, the patient will most frequently recover, without any bad symptom occurring after the relief of the strangulated bowel; but, on the contrary, when the operation has been long deferred, and especially after perse- vering and violent efforts have been employed in the attempt to reduce the hernia by the taxis, nothing, I believe, will avail to prevent a fatal termination. In these cases the coats of the externally to it, there was supposed to be no occasion to divide it at the neck ; nor was the intestine drawn down to be looked at, but it was readily returned, as the surgeon said, into the abdomen. The wound was then closed by a suture. Three days after the operation had been performed, dur- ing which time the symptoms of strangulation obstinately persisted, the wo- man died. On opening the abdomen, the intestine was found very firmly constricted by the mouth of the peritonaeal sac, and on looking into the sac from the wound in the thigh, no intestine was at first perceived; but, when examined more closely from within, it was found pushed up between the peritonaeum and the sheath of the femoral vessels; so here it had remained, and of course the symptoms continued. ( Vide Sir Astley Cooper on Crural Hernia, note at the bottom of page 11, 2nd edit.) In Plate VII. fig. 4, of the same work, is a representation of the hernial sac, which had been returned into the abdomen unopened, in a case in which death ensued from the stran- gulation of the intestine by the neck of the sac still continuing unrelieved. Similar cases are recorded by Scarpa, Sir Charles Bell, Lawrence, Dupuytren, and Breschet. See a very interesting Clinical Lecture, by Sir Charles Bell, on Femoral Hernia, in the 13th vol. of the Medical Gazette, p. 926 ; Lon- don, 1834.