DISLOCATION ON THE PU15ES. 200 Reduction.—This dislocation is in general very easily re- duced. The patient should be placed upon his back, with the thighs separated as much as possible, when the band which is intended to fix the pelvis is to be placed between the thigh and the pudendum: the surgeon then lays hold of the ancle of the dislocated limb, and draws it over the sound leg ; when this has been done, the head of the bone usually slips into the aceta- bulum. It is useful, also, to fix the pelvis more securely by passing a band round it, underneath that which passes round the thigh, and to which the pulleys are attached, in order to prevent the pelvis from moving in the same direction as the thigh.j* Great care should be observed, in the reduction of this dislocation, not to advance the knee and leg of the affected side too much; as the head of the bone might otherwise slip behind the acetabulum into the great ischiatic notch, from which it would be extremely difficult to remove it. 4. Dislocation upwards and forwards upon the horizontal branch of the os pubis. — This dislocation happens when a person, while walking, unexpectedly puts his foot into some hollow in the ground ; or by slipping, when making a sudden step forwards, (as in fencing,) the body being at the same time bent backwards; so that the head of the bone bursts through the capsular ligament, and is thrown forwards and upwards upon the ileo-pectineal line of the os pubis. In this dislocation the limb is about one inch shorter than on the sound side ; the knee and foot are turned forcibly out- wards ; and it is impossible to rotate the thigh inwards, but it may be bent slightly backwards and forwards. The toes touch the ground, but the heel does not reach it. The head of the bone forms a prominent, hard, and globular tumour in front of the horizontal branch of the os pubis, underneath Poupart’s ligament, on the external side of the femoral artery and vein, and is easily perceived to obey all the motions of the limb ; the natural prominence of the trochanter major is lost, as it is situated forwards and inwards immediately under the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. In this, as in all other dislocations of the hip-joint, the cap- sular and round ligaments are torn, and the head of the bone is t See plate viii. fig. 2, of Sir Astlcy Cooper’s work on Dislocations.