98 SUPERFICIAL INGUINAL GLANDS. gland be situated just over Poupart’s ligament, and more par- ticularly if its greater diameter be disposed transversely to the direction of the long axis of the limb, then the swelling has, in all probability, been produced by some affection of the external genital organs,—it may be, a chancre upon the penis, or a gonorrhoeal discharge from the urethra; while, on the other hand, if the tumour be situated lower down upon the front of the thigh, and its longest diameter be placed obliquely, and parallel with the course of the saphena vein, then we may feel tolerably well assured that the cause will be detected still lower down upon the limb, perhaps about the ancles, upon the heel, or between the clefts of the toes. It should not, however, be overlooked, in the decision of doubtful cases, that an inflammatory swelling of the glands of the groin may be excited, and maintained, by diseases about the perinmum and region of the anus. Inflammation of the superficial absorbents of the thigh fre- quently ensues after contused and lacerated wounds of the leg and foot; it is generally accompanied by very severe febrile disturbance of the whole system. The affection is indicated by numerous tortuous red lines, which are very tender under pres- sure, running chiefly in the same direction as the course of the saphena vein. If the disease be not very quickly checked in its progress, it is commonly followed by diffuse inflammation of the subcutaneous cellular tissue of the limb. Veins.—The great or internal saphena vein commences from the plexus of smaller veins which exists upon the dorsum of the foot, and, after ascending in front of the inner ancle, and internal border of the leg, passes behind the inside of the knee- joint, whence it inclines upwards and forwards, until it ter- minates by joining with the trunk of the common femoral vein, about an inch, or an inch and a half, below Poupart’s ligament, where it passes through the large oval aperture in the fascia lata, which has been named, from this circumstance, the saphe- nous opening. In its course the great saphena vein receives numerous branches from the integuments on either side ; and it is not unfrequently joined near its termination by another vein of considerable size, which, commencing near the knee, ascends in a vertical direction along the front of the thigh (see Plate I. fig. 2). This vein, sometimes called the anterior saphena, is worthy of being noticed, when it is present, as