167 LIGATURE OF THE FEMORAL ARTERY. Scarpa, are, that the femoral artery is less easily found lower down than in the upper third of the thigh, where it lies almost subcutaneous ; and that the disturbance of parts, which is necessarily created by the lifting up of the sartorius muscle, and opening into the strong tendinous sheath of the vessels, is frequently followed by extensive and long-continued suppura- tions in the course of the vessels, which on several occasions have been productive of secondary hemorrhage, from ulceration of the coats of the artery where they are embraced by the liga- ture : in addition to these objections it may also be reasonably urged, that it is more advisable to go still farther from the seat of the disease, for the cure of which the operation is performed, since the coats of the artery are much less likely to be affected there than lower down. Scarpa's operation.—Throughout the upper third of the thigh the femoral artery runs very superficially, so that its pulsations may be distinctly felt on pressing with the fingers from the crural arch downwards to the point where it is crossed by the sartorius muscle, which is usually about four inches below the lower edge of Poupart’s ligament. (See Plate VII. fig. 2.) A little above this spot the artery is easily reached, and may be tied with great facility, without removing the sartorius from its natural situation. Besides, at this place the ligature may be applied at a sufficient distance below the origin of the pro- funda artery, without any risk of the current of blood, which circulates through that great and'important branch, proving a hinderance to the formation of the clot, or preventing the union of the opposite sides of the tied artery. It may be added, also, that there is every reason for believing that the ligature will be applied where the coats of the artery are healthy. In this operation the first incision should be begun at about an inch and a half or two inches below Poupart’s ligament, and carried vertically downwards for three inches; dividing the skin and the superficial fascia of the thigh. If the anterior sa- phena vein should present itself, it may be withdrawn to the in- ner side of the wound. The next incision divides the fascia lata, which may be done, according to the choice of the opera- tor, with the hand unsupported, or upon a director introduced underneath it by a small opening at the centre of the wound. If it be necessary, from its unusual breadth, the inner edge of