119 OF THE FEMORAL VESSELS. (See Plate IV. fig. t, t.) The fascia iliaca descends in a simi- lar manner behind the great vessels, and is joined with the fascia transversalis closely along the iliac side of the common femoral artery; but on the opposite, or pubal side, they are united with each other at a little distance from the great femoral vein. (See Plate IV. fig. 3.) The form of this sheath has been com- pared to a funnel, whence its name ; for it is much wider supe- riorly than inferiorly, where it becomes blended with the exter- nal cellular coat of the vessels opposite the point where the saphena major joins with the femoral vein. Let an incision be now made, in a vertical direction, through the anterior wall of the sheath, over the centre of the great femoral artery, and when that vessel is uncovered by a few movements of the scalpel on each side of it, it will be seen to lie in a distinct compartment. (Plate IV. fig. 1.) A similar incision may be made over the course of the great femoral vein, (Plate IV. fig. £,) and a third over the centre of the front wall of the crural canal. (Plate IV. fig. 3.) When this has been done, the femoral vein is shown to be separated from the artery, which lies on its iliac side, by a thin septum or membranous process, which connects together the anterior and posterior walls of the sheath, and also from the lymphatic vessels and glands, which are situated within the crural canal, by a similar septum. (See Plate IV. fig. u, w.)-f* Thus of the compartments into which the funnel-shaped sheath of the great vessels is subdivided, the external and middle are completely occupied by the common femoral artery and vein, so that no hernia can occur into them; whereas the third, or that which is nearest to the pubes (Plate IV. fig. 3), being only loosely filled by some lymphatic vessels,\ and cellular tissue, will readily admit of a portion of the intes- tines being protruded into it, as happens in cases of femoral hernia. t See also the woodcut No. 2, at page 87, figs, u, v, x, and *. $ Some lymphatic vessels run upon the coats of the femoral artery and vein, but by far the greater number are confined to the crural canal.