155 PSOAS ABSCESS.—FATTY TUMOURS, Sometimes an inguinal gland becomes swollen, and remains enlarged for a long time, without any change taking place in its condition: in such a case the repeated application of blisters, followed by the employment of pressure, will frequently succeed in procuring its rapid removal by absorption. Psoas abscess.—This affection, while in its early stages, might be mistaken, in a cursory examination, for a femoral her- nia; but the history of the symptoms, the fluctuation which is perceptible in the tumour, and very frequently its situation, which is usually much nearer to the spine of the ilium than that of a femoral hernia, will always afford sufficient grounds upon which a correct diagnosis may be founded.-f Steatomatous tumours.—Fatty tumours are frequently met with in the groin, and in some instances, owing to the co- existence of many of the symptoms of strangulated intestines, have, from their small size and their situation, been mistaken for femoral hernise, accompanied with symptoms of strangulated intestine.^: I have seen several adipose tumours of very consi- derable size situated in this region. In general their removal by the knife is easily effected, as they seldom adhere very closely to the sheath of the great vessels, which lie beneath them.^ Scirrhus of the glands of the groin.—The glands of the groin are rarely affected with scirrhus, yet some cases of this kind have been recorded by various authors. The nature of the disease is, however, rarely detected in sufficient time to enable the surgeon to interfere with any prospect of success from an operation, as the glands which are more deeply seated in the Elements de Medecine Operatoire, tom. ii. p. 333 ; Paris, 1832. There is a preparation preserved in the Museum of the College in which a small hernial sac adheres to the base of an enlarged inguinal gland, which occupied the centre of an ulcer in the groin. t Mr. Cooper mentions an instance in which the surgeon, who had been first in attendance, mistook a psoas abscess for a femoral hernia. Vide The Diet, of Practical Surgery, 7th edit. p. 944. t Several cases of this kind are detailed in the second volume of M. Vel- peau’s work upon Operative Surgery, p. 333. § During my residence in the hospital of Newcastle-upon-Tyne, a tumour of this nature, which was as large as the head of a young child, was extir- pated by Mr. Heath, one of the surgeons to that admirably conducted in- stitution. Similar cases will be found in Sir Astley Cooper on Hernia, part ii. p. 4 ; 2nd edit.; Recherches sur les Hernies, p. J. Cloquet, 7C Obs. p. 25 ; 4to. Paris, 1819, and in the Lancet for 1839, p. 39.