SUPERFICIAL INGUINAL GLANDS. 97 When the external layer of the superficial fascia has been in this manner dissected from its connexions with the saphena vein and the other vessels and glands, its structure may be more closely inspected : it will be found to consist, externally, of a loose cellular tissue, while its internal surface presents a uni- form, smooth, and glistening appearance, resembling a thin but firm membrane spread over the superficial vessels and glands in this region, which it materially serves to bind down and sup- port in their respective situations. The numerous small arteries and veins which converge to- wards the centre of the groin, may now be more completely exposed by carefully removing the loose cellular tissue which surrounds them. The lymphatics which ascend from the in- teguments of the leg and foot may be shown by scratching through, with the point of the knife, the cellular substance along the external border of the great saphena vein, in the same direc- tion as the course of that vessel; many of these delicate tubes will be thus observed to enter the inferior extremity of the con- globate glands of the groin (vasa inferentia), while as many 'leave on the opposite side (vasa efferentia), for the purpose of conveying the lymph onwards towards the centre of the circu- lation : they then pass through the saphenous opening of the fascia lata into the crural canal, and so into the cavity of the abdomen, where they join with the absorbent glands that lie alongside of the external iliac vessels. (See Plate I. figs. 11, 11, and 12.) Several delicate lymphatic vessels may also be displayed in the same manner, which descend from the integuments of the abdominal parietes, and from the superficial coverings of the external parts of generation, to pass through three or four small absorbent glands, which are situated parallel with, and imme- diately over, Poupart’s ligament. (See Plate I. fig. 10.) It is by a reference to the course which is pursued by the lymphatic vessels, that we are enabled to explain the produc- tion of those enlargements of the glands in the groin which frequently follow the formation of irritable sores at a consider- able distance from the swollen gland, and thus even to decide almost at the first view, from a consideration of the figure and situation of the enlarged gland, whence the primary irritating cause has arisen. If, for example, the swollen and inflamed H