179 BRANCHES OF THE POPLITEAL ARTERY. this muscle should be drawn a little aside (towards the inner bor- der of the limb) in the operation of tying this part of the vessel: more inferiorly, it is in relation with the internal condyle of the femur, and the inner head of the gastrocnemius muscle. The short head of the biceps flexor, the plantaris, and the ex- ternal division of the gastrocnemius muscles, with the outer con- dyle of the femur, are in relation with the external border of the artery. Branches of the popliteal artery.—The popliteal artery fur- nishes several branches to the structures which lie adjacent to it ; some of which have received names, and are deserving of more particular attention, both on account of their size, and, more especially, as they constitute the principal medium by which the collateral circulation of the limb is carried on when the main trunk has been obliterated, as after the operation for the cure of popliteal aneurism, &c. These branches are, 1st, rami articu- lar es super tores ; 2nd, rami articular es inferior es ; 3rd, ramus azygos, vel articularis medius ; 4th, rami surales. 1. Ramus articularis superior externus.—This branch leaves the trunk of the popliteal artery at a right angle, and immedi- ately afterwards inclines outwards to pass between the biceps flexor muscle and the bone, just above the external condyle of the femur. After distributing a few branches to the external head of the gastrocnemius, biceps, and vastus externus muscles, it divides into numerous ramusculi, which spread over the outer and front surfaces of the knee-joint, where they freely anasto- mose with the branches of the inferior perforating and external circumflex arteries superiorly, and with those of the inferior ex- ternal articular and anterior tibial recurrent arteries inferiorly. (Plate VIII. fig. 1.) 2. Ramus articularis superior internus arises from the inner side of the popliteal artery, and, running towards the internal border of the limb, passes between the bone and the tendons of the semi-tendinosus, semi-membranosus, and adductor magnus muscles, just above the inner condyle of the femur ; after which it soon divides into a numerous lash of branches, which form a vascular network upon the inner side and front of the knee-joint, when they anastomose with the branches of the anastomotica magna and inferior articular arteries, as well as with the corre- sponding vessels of the opposite side. (Plate VIII. fig. 2.) Besides these branches, the popliteal artery furnishes several n 2