FRACTURE OF THE NECK OF THE FEMUR. 203 + Op. citat. p. 111. fragments of the rami of the os pubis and ischium should they be broken ; an accident which I have witnessed in three instances. Fracture, of the neck of the femur.—A fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone is of very frequent occurrence in elderly per- sons, and is usually produced by falls upon the side of the hip, by which the neck of the femur is pressed between two resisting surfaces in such a manner that it is suddenly snapt asunder ; for it no longer possesses, from the changes which are incident to old age, sufficient elasticity to resist the shock. Since the pel- vis is wider, and the trochanter major much more prominent in women than in men, though of the same age, we find that this accident is much more frequent in individuals of the former sex than of the latter. This accident is, moreover, very rarely met with in persons who are under fifty years of age ; but I have seen it happen in a young woman of seventeen, and also in a strong healthy man of forty years of age. Sir Astley Cooper states, that, out of two hundred and twenty-five cases of this accident (fracture of the neck of the femur within the capsular ligament) which he has seen, only two occurred in persons who were less than fifty years of age ;j- the correctness of which statement has been repeatedly confirmed by the observations of numerous other distinguished surgical writers. Sir Astley Cooper divides the fractures which occur of the neck of the thigh-bone into two classes, in one of which the seat of the fracture is altogether within the capsular liga- ment, whereas in the other it is external to it, opposite the point where the neck of the femur springs from the trochan- ters ; a distinction which is, however, of comparatively little use in practice, excepting as regards the prognosis, which is some- what more favourable in the latter than in the former case, provided that the patient be not very far advanced in years. The symptoms of this accident are a diminution in the length of the limb, which is an inch and a half, or two inches, shorter than the opposite side. There is also usually eversion of the foot and knee, so that they rest upon their outer border as the patient lies upon his back in bed. When the patient is supported in the erect posture, the toes, but not the heel, touch the ground, and he is unable to bear any of the weight of the body upon the limb. The trochanter major is less prominent on the injured side than is natural, and, besides, it