158 CUTANEOUS NERVES OF TIIE THIGH. anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. (See Plate TV. fig. s.) Below the crural arch the nerve rests upon the upper part of the sartorius muscle, and soon pierces the fascia lata, when it divides into two branches, the larger of which runs almost vertically downwards to the external border of the knee, distributing numerous filaments to the integuments covering the vastus externus muscle ; the other branch is much smaller than the preceding, and, inclining backwards, crosses over the tensor vaginse muscle to ramify in the skin covering the anterior part of the gluteal region. 2. The middle cutaneous nerve is a branch of the anterior crural, and pierces the fascia lata about three inches below Pou- part’s ligament; it may be traced, as it lies upon the fascia enclosing the rectus muscle, as far as to the skin covering the patella. (See Plate VI. fig. r.) 3. The internal cutaneous nerve is also a branch from the anterior crural, and follows nearly the course of the great saphe- nous vein, ramifying in the skin covering the vastus internus muscle, as far as the inner border of the knee. The integuments of the front of the thigh receive, besides the nerves which have just been described, numerous filaments from various other branches of the anterior crural and obturator nerves, as well as from the ilio-inguinal and genito-crural nerves of the lumbar plexus. The femoral vessels.—The femoral artery and vein may be exposed throughout their course, by merely raising the fascia lata from the muscles which occupy the front and inner surface of the thigh, and carefully removing the loose cellular and adipose substance which fills up the interstices between them, so as to avoid injuring the numerous branches that spring on each side from the main trunks. The deep-seated branches of the anterior crural nerve may also be displayed at the same time. (See Plates IV. and VII.) EXPLANATION OF PLATE VII. This plate represents the dissection of the large vessels and nerves on the front of the thigh, after the fascia lata has been removed from the muscles. a. The anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. b. The tuberosity and crest of the os pubis. c. The crural arch. d. The cut surface of the os pubis, near its symphysis.