FRACTURE OF THE NECK OF THE FEMUR. 205 § Op. citat. p. 106. be felt on firmly grasping the trochanter major with one hand ; when, at the same time, it will be observed that the trochanter does not revolve upon the axis of the neck of the thigh-bone, and so describe the arc of a considerable circle, but that it turns shortly upon its own centre, and on the same axis as the shaft of the femur itself. Persons who have suffered a fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone may, nevertheless, still possess considerable power of flexion and extension of the limb; though these move- ments are, generally, accompanied with considerable pain. In some instances, where this accident had occurred, no crepitus could be detected on the closest examination ; nor was any shortening or eversion of the limb observed until a considerable period of time had elapsed from the occurrence of the injury.j- Some persons, indeed, have been known to have walked for some distance after the receipt of this injury ; which circumstance must have been owing, in all probability, to-some peculiarity in the line of the fracture, by which the broken surfaces of the bone were closely wedged or dovetailed into one another, and had not separated until after a considerable space of time.j; The knee and foot may be inverted in a fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone ; of which unusual circumstance several ex- planations have been offered by different writers. Sir Astley Cooper considers that this is only likely to occur before the muscles have had sufficient time to contract.§ Mr. Syme states, that it is his opinion that this variation in the ap- pearance of the limb is most likely to be produced when the fracture splits the trochanters, so as to detach the smaller one from the shaft, and also the posterior part of the greater, into which the muscles that perform rotation outwards are inserted, leaving the anterior portion of the process which receives the insertion of the gluteus medius connected with the body of the t Baron Dupuytren relates several cases of fracture of the neck of the femur, in which the displacement of the broken ends of the bone did not take place until even as many as thirty days had elapsed from the receipt of the injury. See Legons Orales, tom. ii. p. 47. J A case of this kind is cited in Sir Astley Cooper’s work on Dislocations and Fractures, 4th edition, p. 158.