OPERATION EOR 148 It may be asked what is the scat of the stricture in femoral hernia ? The answer to which question is, that it is not the same in all cases, though, in by far the greater number of in- stances, the constriction is relieved by the division upwards and inwards of the falciform process of the fascia lata and the lunated edge of Gimbernat’s ligament, where they join with each other. In some instances it will be the fibres of the deep crescentic arch ; in others, again, the neck of the sac itself, and produced by a thickening and contraction of the subserous and peritonseal membranes where they lie within the circumference of the cru- ral ring. The stricture having been divided in an oblique direction upwards and inwards, the contents of the sac may be returned, provided there be no contraindicating circumstances ; in effecting the reduction attention should be paid to the position of the limb, which ought now to be flexed upon the trunk, and rotated in- wards, so as to relax more completely the crural arch, at the same time that great care is taken to handle the intestine with extreme gentleness. If both have been protruded, the bowel should be returned before the omentum. If the omentum pre- sents the appearance of a large and hard mass, and of such a form as not to be readily passed back through the crural stance of the obturator artery, surrounding the neck of the sac, having been wounded in operations for strangulated femoral herniae, which were perform- ed by some of the best anatomists and surgeons in London, and that the pa- tients subsequently bled at intervals until they died from hemorrhage.— (Guthrie on Crural He7'nia, 4to.p. 36.) Dr. Triisted, of Berlin, mentions a case in which the surgeon wounded the obturator artery, while cutting the crural ring inwards, and the patient died eight days after the operation ; six ounces of putrid blood were found in the cavity of the pelvis. — (See Cooper's Diet, of Pract. Surg. p. 741; 7th edit.) M. Velpeau has recorded a similar case which occurred in the hospital of La Charity, Paris, in which the hemorrhage was arrested by a graduated compress, the furthest extre- mity of which projected into the iliac fossa; it was kept there for five days, and then removed without being followed by any return of the hemorrhage. —(Mdd. Op6r. tom. ii.p. 489.) Mr. Hey wounded a large vessel, probably.the epigastric, when cutting directly upwards, in the case of an old woman, and not on that side of the intestine which was mostdistantfrom the femoral artery. The incision was, however, half an inch in length, which is rather longer than is necessary. Mr. Hey found it impracticable to ligature the vessel, but placed a piece of sponge, supported by a firm compress, upon the bleeding spot, which he kept there for fourteen days, when it was removed. This case