135 VARIETIES OF FEMORAL HERNIA. trunk, and its division into the epigastric and obturator branches, were placed anteriorly to the sac. The sac, about the size of a walnut, Avas situated directly in front of the femoral artery and vein.-j- The variety in which the neck of the sac is surrounded by the obturator artery coming off from the epigastric, has already been fully noticed in a preceding part of this work.j M. Cloquet has seen an instance in which the hernial sac had passed through an opening in the posterior part of the sheath, so that it lay immediately on the pectineus muscle, having in front of it the femoral artery and vein, from which it was separated by the pubic portion of the fascia lata.^ Sometimes the sac of a femoral hernia is multilocular, or di- vided into several compartments, which communicate with one another. Hesselbacli delineates, in his work upon hernia, a remarkable instance of this kind, in which the surface of the tumour was rendered extremely irregular by dense bands stretch- ed across it in various directions as it emerged from the saphe- nous aperture. || Sometimes the tumour is of an hour-glass figure, which ap- pearance may arise from the constriction produced by a large vessel crossing over the exterior of the sac.^[ The size of the femoral hernia seldom exceeds a pigeon’s egg; but occasionally instances have been seen in Avliich it had attained a much greater magnitude, and then it generally descended upon f Vide Lawrence on Hernia, 5th edit. p. 486 ; London, 1838. \ Vide p. 114, and the wood-engraving No. 6. § “ J’ai vu le sac s’ engager par une ouverture de la paroi postdrieure du canal crural. II reposait immediatement sur le muscle pectine, et avait au-devant de lui l’artbre et la veine fdmorales, dont il etait sdpard par le feuillet profond de l’apondvrose fascia lata.”— Recherches sur les Hernies, p. 85, prop. xlvi. || Hesselbach deOrtuet Progressu Herniarum, p.45. Plate xiii.; and also Observations on Crural Hernia, by Alexander Monro, M.D. Plate ii. fig. 2; in which the sac is seen divided into four compartments, three of them communicating with each other. f Dr. Macfarlane, in his excellent reports of the surgical practice of the Glasgow Infirmary, relates two instances in which the tumour of a femoral hernia was rendered of an hour-glass shape by a large vessel, probably the external pudic, crossing over the front of the sac. Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, 1837, p. 37.