THE CRURAL ARCII. 8G obturator membrane, i. The tuberosity of the ischium, k. The ascending ramus of the ischium. 1. The body and descending ramus of the os pubis. vi. The ligament of Poupart, extended between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium (a), and the spine of the pubis (b). n. The ligament of Gimbernat, which is chiefly formed by the reflected fibres from the lower edge of Poupart’s ligament, and which should be divided between the dotted lines to remove the stricture when it is necessary to enlarge the crural ring in operations for strangulated femoral hernia. The crural arch (m., n,) is formed by the posterior edge of Poupart’s ligament, and the lunated border of Gimbernat’s ligament; and underneath it pass the muscles, nerves, and vessels, which issue from the cavity of the abdomen to the upper part of the thigh. In the natural and undissected condition of these parts, the greater portion of the space, which is included between the posterior edge of Poupart’s ligament and the irregular curved margin of the bone, is completely closed up by the structures that descend from the interior of the belly to the upper part of the thigh. The iliacus internus and psoas magnus muscles, together with the external cutaneous and anterior crural nerves, occupy the whole of the interval between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the ileo- pectineal eminence. (See woodcut, No. 2. r, s, t.) On the inner or pubal side of these are placed, first, the trunk of the common femoral artery (u), and then that of the great femoral vein (t;) ; so that there only remains a small and oval-shaped space (x), which is unoccupied, except by some loose cellular tissue (the septum crurale of M. J. Cloquet), and some lym- phatic vessels, which, passing along the inner edge of the femoral vein, ascend into the cavity of the pelvis from the structures of the inferior extremity, to reach the absorbent glands which are situated upon the internal border of the psoas muscle, alongside of the external iliac vessels. The wood-engraving represents, a vertical section of the limb having been made immediately below Poupart’s ligament, the mode in which the greater part of the space that is included by the crural arch is filled by the muscles, nerves, and vessels which make their exit from the abdomen to supply the lower extremity, leaving only a small oval-shaped space (the crural ring), upon the iliac side of Gimbernat’s ligament, unoccupied, except by some loose cellular tissue, absorbent vessels, and sometimes a lymphatic gland.