POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 187 the current of the blood again allowed to flow on uninterrupt- edly. When the car is applied over the swelling, a loud bruit de souffiet is generally heard, and at the same time the head of the auscultator is lifted up at each action of the heart. Thus far the aneurism may be said to be of moderate size, and to constitute a well-marked example of the circumscribed false aneurism of the popliteal artery, and is a favourable case for the interference of the surgeon, who may proceed to ligature the superficial femoral artery with every prospect of success. As the tumour enlarges, the pain which is experienced by the patient becomes more and more severe, and he is no longer able to extend the limb as before, nor to walk without limping, on account of the bent position in which he is compelled to keep the knee for the sake of relief from the painful sensations which this position is capable of affording. There is great varia- tion in the length of time during which an aneurism of the popliteal artery remains circumscribed : in some instances it has been known to remain, without any change, for many months ; while, in others, the whole of the muscles and cellular tissue of the leg and thigh have been infiltrated and gorged with blood in as many weeks from the first appearance of the disease. If from the neglect of the patient, or from any other cause, the disease be permitted to pursue its course unchecked by art, then the swelling commonly becomes larger and much harder than before; its pulsation becomes more feeble, and is per- ceived with much greater difficulty, nor can the bulk of the tumour be diminished, as before, by pressure upon the artery at the groin.-f* The temperature of the limb below the knee is lowered, and the skin covering the tumour loses its natural colour, and becomes livid, threatens to slough, which in the end does actually take place, and, as the eschar cracks and loosens, t There is a very interesting and instructive case recorded by Mr. Law- rence in the 8th vol. of the Med. Chir. Trans, of London, in which a popli- teal aneurism was mistaken for a large and rapidly increasing fleshy tumour, and the leg amputated. Previously to the performance of the operation, Mr. Lawrence plunged an abscess lancet into the softest part of the tumour to the whole depth of the blade, without giving issue to any fluid. On examination of the limb after its removal, the tumour was found to have been formed by a popliteal aneurism, containing an immense mass of firm bloody coagulum.— Vide the Med. Chir. Trans. Lond. vol. viii. p. 497.