146 OPERATION FOR on the part of the surgeon, unusual information and great dexte- rity, to separate this fatty sheath from the true hernial sac, with- out dividing the latter, and injuring the viscera contained in it.j* In several instances, the fascia propria has been mistaken for the sac itself: and thus it has happened, even in the practice of the most skilful and experienced surgeons, that the margins of the crural ring have been cut external to the sac, which was then forcibly pushed back into the belly, with its contents, which, being still tightly girt by the thickened neck of the sac, remain- ed strangulated, and caused the death of the patient. After these operations, the unopened hernial sac, with its contents, have been shown to have been pushed up into the loose cellular tissue which connects the outer surface of the peritonaeum to the fasciae lining the iliac fossa.j It should be recollected, also, that cysts, having many of the appearances of the proper hernial sac, may be met with in the subserous cellular tissue, (which, indeed, is a part of the fascia propria,) and might cause some embarrassment, if their nature be not recognised by the operator. An interesting case of this kind occurred in the hospital of the College during the course of last winter, in the practice of Professor Cooper, in which several cysts filled with a clear sanguinolent fluid were opened before the hernial sac was arrived at. $ The peritoneal sac having been exposed, a small piece of it is to be held up between the fingers, or the blades of the forceps, taking very great care to exclude any portion of its contents, t Vide Scarpa on Hernia, translated by H. Wishart, p. 271; 8vo. Edin. % For cases of this kind, see Sir Astley Cooper’s work on Crural Hernia, 2d edit. p. ii. p. 11 ; the works of Le Dran, obs. 58; De La Faye, in Di- onis’s Surgical Operations, 5th edit, p.324; and Arnaud,Trait^ des Hernies, tom. i. p. 96 ; Cloquet, Recherches, pp. 112-16; Scarpa, translated by Wis- hart, p. 143 ; London Medical Gazette, vol. i. pp.485-6, and vol. xiii. p. 926 ; the Dictionnaire de Medecine et de Chirurgie Pratiques, tom. ix. p. 571, article Ilernie: also Mr. Lawrence’s valuable Treatise on Ruptures, 5th edit, pp. 92 and 150. § Vide the London Medical Gazette for March 2, 1839, p. 835. It would seem that Sir Charles Bell has met with the same appearances, for he says that “ Sometimes the sac is covered, not only with lymphatic glands, but with vesicles of serum, and these give to the tumour a great irregularity: they require a careful dissection.—Illustrations of the Great Operations of Surgery, by Sir Charles Bell, p. 41, folio; also, Medecine Opdratoire, par M. Velpeau, tom. iii. pp. 362-3.