170 LIGATURE OF THE sion, which should be from three to four inches in length, should extend from a point situated one inch and a half above, and to the inner side of the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, downwards in a slightly curved direction, (the convexity of the incision regarding Poupart’s ligament,) to a little above the situation of the external abdominal ring. (See Plate VI. fig. 6.) By this incision the tendon of the external oblique muscle is laid bare, and must be cut through to the same extent, as likewise the fleshy fibres of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, which may be done either upon a director introduced underneath them as they lie obliquely across the upper part of the inguinal canal, or with a probe-pointed bistoury guided upon the finger. The fascia transversalis is now to be opened near the upper part of the wound, as the peritonaeum is less closely attached to it there than below; this opening is to be enlarged downwards with great care, lest the peritonaeum should be in any way injured either by the edge of the knife, or by being torn by the finger. An assistant is directed to retract the su- perior edge of the wound, and along with it the great bag of the peritonaeum and the spermatic cord, so that the surgeon may the more easily see the artery as it lies upon the inner edge of the psoas muscle, external to the vein. In many cases it is neces- sary to divide with the point of the knife a dense fascia which crosses over the vessels in this situation, and binds them down to the fascia iliaca, before the attempt to pass the needle round the artery can be safely made. The needle should be carried round the artery from within outwards, on account of the po- sition of the vein, which lies upon its inner edge. If the genito- crural nerve be seen in this operation, as it lies upon the sheath of the external iliac vessels, it would be proper to hold it aside, so as to exclude it from the ligature. It should also to be recol- lected, that the epigastric artery may be wounded if the incision be carried too freely inwards towards the linea semilunaris,—an accident which occurred in one of the operations performed by Dupuytren.-f* It is alleged by those who adopt Mr. Abemethy’s plan of operating, that they can apply the ligature higher up on the artery than by pursuing the method recommended by Sir Astley f See Mr. Cooper’s Dictionary of Practical Surgery; 7th edit. p. 157.