Ill OF THE FASCIA LATA. of the fascia lata, underneath the pubal extremity of Pou- part’s ligament, and anterior to Gimbernat’s ligament. In many cases of strangulated femoral hernia this process must be divided, in order to relieve the stricture upon the pro- truded intestine contained within the sac. 1. The great, or internal saphena vein, which opens into the great femoral vein (q.) about one inch below Poupart’s ligament. m. The anterior saphena vein. 0. The superficial epigastric vein. p. A vein which frequently joins the great saphena, and comes from the inner and back part of the thigh. <7. The trunk of the great femoral vein, which has been ex- posed by removing the internal wall of the crural canal, or sheath of the great vessels. r. The external pudendal arteries, which issue from the saphe- nous opening, and cross over the spermatic cord in their course to the integuments of the scrotum. These vessels are divided in the first incisions of the operation for stran- gulated scrotal hernia. s. The superficial epigastric artery. t. The superficial external circumflex ilii artery. .u.u. Several of the superficial lymphatic glands of the groin, which frequently swell and suppurate from disease about the heel and lower part of the leg and foot. Several absor- bent vessels are seen running through these glands. v. The penis. x. The spermatic fascia which covers the cremaster muscle upon the cord and testis. y. The external abdominal ring. z. The superficial fascia of the groin dissected up, and re- flected, with the integuments, over the outer border of the limb. 1. The fleshy fibres of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. 2. The intercolumnar fibres. 3. Gimbernat’s ligament. On the iliac side of this, and be- tween it and the femoral vein, may be seen a dark oval-shaped hole, which is the crural ring, or superior aperture of the crural canal, and through which the sac of a femoral hernia is at first protruded. Between this opening and the edge of the falciform process (i) is situated the crural canal, the an- terior wall of which is formed by the superior cornu of the saphenous opening of the fascia lata, as it arches over the front of the great vessels to be attached to the pubal ex- tremity of Poupart’s ligament.