OF THE CRUltAL RING. 125 external angle of the ring. In the subject from which the drawing was taken, the obturator artery, which came off from a short common trunk with the epigastric, descended along the external edge of the opening, and, therefore, would not be exposed to any injury from the edge of the bistoury used for dividing the crural ring upwards and inwards in an operation for the removal of the stricture in strangu- lated femoral hernia, an accident which might happen in the case represented in the wood-engraving No. 6, at page 115, where the obturator and epigastric arteries arise from a common trunk, which is rather longer than in the present instance. In the male subject the spermatic cord, as it descends through the inguinal canal, lies just above the crural ring, and, therefore, is liable to be injured if an in- cision directed upwards be not very carefully made. In the female the round ligament of the uterus holds the same rela- tion to the front of the crural ring, but it is not of the same importance as the spermatic cord, along the posterior sur- face of which a large artery and duct (the spermatic artery and vas deferens) run in their course to the testicle. k. The linea alba: the incision has divided some of the inner- most fibres of the rectus muscle of the right side (o). l. The urinary bladder, which, being empty, is contracted into the pelvis. m. The small intestines, removed from the left iliac fossa. n. The transversalis muscle of the right side. o. The rectus muscle of the right side. 1. The external iliac artery. 2. The external iliac vein, which runs along the inner side of the artery. 3. The external pudic, or genito-crural nerve, which lies upon the sheath of these vessels. 4. The common trunk, which, soon after its origin from the external iliac artery, divides into the deep epigastric artery, 5, and the obturator artery, 6. 7. The obturator nerve. The round ligament of the uterus has been cut across, just as it enters into the inguinal canal; its divided extremity is seen projecting over the curve of the deep epigastric artery at its commencement. 8. Is a probe-pointed bistoury, which is used in the operation of enlarging the crural ring in cases of strangulated femoral hernia. The crural ring should be enlarged in the operation for strangulated femoral hernia, when the seat of the stricture is situated here, by dividing the lunated border of Gimbernat’s