84 LIGAMENTS OF POUPART AND GIMBERNAT. From the last-mentioned process of bone, the horizontal branch of the os pubis (d) constitutes the posterior boundary of the space as far as to the root of the spinous process or tuberosity (b). Between the ileo-pectineal eminence, and the spine of the pubis, the superior edge of the horizontal branch of the os pubis is remarkably thin and sharp, {the peclen of the os pubis,) and forms part of the brim of the true pelvis : it also constitutes a part of the ileo-pectineal line, and gives at- tachment to Gimbernat’s ligament, and to the conjoined tendons of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles of the ab- domen. The crural arch. — The ligament of Poupart,~f* as it stretches across from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, to the spine, or tuberosity of the os pubis, bounds the excavation of the os innominatum anteriorly, and thus converts it into a wide hollow passage, or outlet, by which several large muscles and vessels issue from the cavity of the abdomen to the thigh ; and hence the name which has been given to it, of the crural arch. (See the woodcut No. 1. fig. m, at page 85.) Gimbernat’s ligament. — Some of the fibres of Poupart’s ligament will be noticed, on close examination, as leaving the direction which is pursued by the rest, and bending obliquely downwards and outwards as they approach towards the tube- rosity of the os pubis, passing to be inserted into the pubal portion of the pecten, or ileo-pectineal line (n). This thin stratum of tendinous fibres, the dirction of which, in the erect position of the body, is almost horizontal, has been named Gimbernat’s ligament,\ and is commonly found rather larger in men than in women ; its external margin is thin, sharp, and concave in its outline, and is directed towards the femoral vein, from which it is only separated by a small oval space, oc- cupied by some loose cellular tissue, and occasionally a lym- phatic gland. (Woodcuts Nos. 1 and 2, fig. n.) t Also called the Fallopian ligament, ligament of the thigh, crural arch, endon of the external oblique muscle. J So named, after Don Antonio de Gimbernat, surgeon to the King of Spain, who accurately described its structure in 1768, and recommended its division with the knife for the removal of the stricture in cases of strangulated femoral hernia. Vide Nuevo Metodo de operar er. la Hernia crural, por D. Antonio de Gimbernat; Madrid, 1779. Anew Method of operating for the Femoral Hernia, translated by Thomas Beddoes, M. D.; 8vo. Lond. 1795.