FEMORAL HERNIA. 145 incisions need not extend over the whole of the tumour, which would be very inconvenient, but only over the upper part. It seldom occurs, in making these incisions, that any of the superficial arteries of the groin are injured ; though, no doubt, a case may be met with occasionally, in which either the superfi- cial pudic or epigastric arteries running over the tumour might be divided, when, if the vessel bleeds freely, it should be se- cured by a ligature before proceeding any further in the operation. The investments which the sac receives from the superficial fascia and the fascia propria, are in the next place to be divided, either with the hand unsupported, as is recommended by Scarpa and Mr. Liston,f or upon the director, which is to be introduced under them, after pinching up a small fold with the forceps, and making a slight horizontal cut with the scalpel. The number of layers which cover the hernial sac appears to vary in almost every case, since they greatly differ from one an- other in their thickness and density, as well as according to the particular method of operating which may be adopted by the surgeon with regard to the use of the scalpel and director ; but, where a director is not used, these may in general be reduced to three, viz. the integuments, the superficial fascia, and the fascia propria. When the superficial fascia has been divided, an oval-shaped fatty fyody presents itself, which, on being slightly moved, may be insulated from the adjacent structures, and which, in fat per- sons, resembles a portion of the omentum, having precisely the same shape and size as the hernia; so that a doubt is apt to arise in the minds of those present, whether the hernial sac has been opened or not, and whether the hernia is really omental. But, on pressing gently this fatty tumour, a certain resistance and elasticity is felt, which is not proper to the struc- ture of the omentum. Therefore, on laying hold of it with the points of a pair of forceps, and dividing layer after layer, the hernial sac at last appears under this fatty capsule, from which it may be distinguished by its smooth thin texture, and its trans- parency. This is one of the most delicate steps of the opera- tion for femoral hernia in both sexes ; and more particularly so, because, in general, the hernia, on being stripped of its cover- ings, is of small size, sometimes very small, so that it requires, i t Vide Operative Surgery, by Mr. Liston ; 2d edit. p. 482. L