COMPLETE FEMORAL HERNIA. 131 of instances, one-third of tlic whole calibre of the bowel, has been found tightly embraced by the margins of the superior orifice of the crural canal. In such cases, the contents of the bowel are effectually prevented from passing along the intestinal tube, by the acute angular fold which is produced by the retention of even so small a portion of the circumference of the gut within the neck of the sac.*f* (See Plate V. fig. 2d, a.) Complete femoral hernia.—When the lower part, or fundus of the sac of a femoral hernia protrudes through the saphenous opening, or inferior aperture of the crural canal, it immediately projects forwards, and extends itself in every direction, but more particularly outwards, over the great femoral vessels, where it forms an obvious tumour in the fold of the groin, which is of an oblong shape, the longest diameter being disposed trans- versely, parallel with Poupart’s ligament, upon which its fundus frequently rests. This change in the direction of the course of a femoral hernia is owing to the close adhesion of the superficial fascia of the thigh, and of the funnel-shaped sheath of the great vessels, to the inferior margin of the saphenous opening of the fascia lata, which prevents the further descent of the tumour upon the front of the thigh ; and also to the greater laxity of the cel- lular substance superiorly, which readily allows of its extension upwards: to these influences should be added the constant mo- tions of the limb, which must greatly tend to tilt the fundus of the sac over the falciform process. Sometimes, indeed, the fundus of the Sac of a femoral hernia ascends so high that it rests not only upon the falciform process of the fascia lata and Poupart’s ligament, but also upon the lower part of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen, where it might be mis- taken, from its figure and position, for an inguinal liernia4 In very few instances are the superficial vessels, which occasionally issue from the saphenous opening of the fascia lata, spread over f A case of this kind occurred in a female servant of Dr. Copland. See Diet, of Pract. Medicine, Part II. p. 367. $ Sir Astley Cooper once went with a physician into the country to ope- rate, as he was told, on a case of inguinal.hernia; but, when he examined the patient, he found that the hernia was criural, and had been for three days strangulated, during which time repeated attempts had been made to reduce it by pressing the tumour towards the spinous process of the ilium. It was reduced in five minutes by employing pressure proper for the crural hernia. Vide Cooper on Crural Hernia. 2d edit, part ii. p. 4. K 2