96 DISSECTION OF PARTS CONNECTED WITH e. The pubic, or inner portion of the fascia lata. ,/'. The fascia lata, single and undivided, below the entrance of the saphena vein. h. The external abdominal ring. i. The round ligament of the uterus, which is held aside by a hook, as it escapes from the external abdominal ring to be- come inserted into the fatty structure of the mons veneris. A small artery is seen upon its inferior surface. 7c. The umbilicus. 1. The fascia lata covering the rectus muscle. »i. The fascia lata covering the sartorius muscle. u. The fascia lata covering the adductor longus and gracilis muscles. o. Hey’s ligament, or the falciform process of the iliac portion of the fascia lata, called also the femoral ligament, and su- perior cornu of the saphenous opening. This frequently requires to be divided in operations for the relief of strangulated femoral hernia, in order to remove the stric- ture upon the protruded bowel. 1.1. The internal or great saphena vein, which terminates by joining with the common femoral vein, about one inch below Poupart’s ligament. 2. The anterior saphena vein. This branch does not always exist; but, when it does, it is worthy of notice, as it lies in front of the superficial femoral artery, where that vessel must be exposed in what is called Scarpa’s operation. 3. The external circumflex ilii vein. 4. The superficial epigastric vein. 5. The superficial pudic vein. 6. The superior external pudic artery. 7. and 8. Two small vessels taking the course of the superficial epigas- tric artery. 9. The external circumflex ilii artery. 10. Three or four small lymphatic glands, which are situated immediately over Poupart’s ligament, and are generally the seat of buboes from venereal sores upon the penis. 11.11. Several absorbent glands situated alongside of the saphena major vein, which frequently swell and inflame, in conse- quence of some disease, or source of irritation, situated lower down in the leg, or foot. The highest of these may swell, and sometimes obscure the diagnosis of a femoral hernia. 12. A delicate lymphatic vessel, which has been injected with mercury. A complete femoral hernia protrudes from the saphenous opening in the dark hollow which is included between the letters e, o, and the figure 11.