114 THE CRURAL RING. (a variety that occurs about once in three subjects,) it most frequently descends upon the pubal side of the external iliac vein to reach the thyroid foramen; and, when it does so, will always be placed upon the iliac or external side of the crural ring, and therefore altogether removed from the edge of the knife as commonly directed in the operation for femoral hernia.*|* (See Plate V. figs. 5 and 6.) It is, however, by no means an unfrequent occurrence to meet with the obturator artery arising from the epigastric, and taking a more sweeping course, when it runs for a short distance along the superior margin of the crural ring, and then descends behind the lunated border of Gimbernat’s ligament in its way to reach the thyroid foramen, through which it passes to be distri- buted to the adductor muscles of the thigh, j: (See the wood- engraving No. 6, page 115.) If a femoral hernia were to be formed in an individual in whom this variety in the course of the obturator artery were present, the neck of the sac would then be surrounded for, at least, three-fourths of its circumference, by large and important vessels, to avoid injuring which a very great deal of caution must be observed in introducing the probe-pointed bistoury, no mat- ter in which of the several directions that are prescribed by sur- gical writers the edge of the knife is carried. § t In twenty-one preparations of crural hernia, possessed by Sir Astley Cooper, there are six which have this variety of the obturator artery. Sir Astley Cooper has never dissected a case in which the obturator ran round the neck of the sac. X The relation which the course of this variety of the obturator artery bears to the crural ring would appear to depend upon the length of the common trunk, which divides into the obturator and epigastric arteries; for, when the obturator springs from the epigastric soon after its origin from the external iliac artery, then it descends along the external side of the crural ring, as was the case in the subject from which the drawing of Plate IV. was taken; but if, on the contrary, it does not arise from the epigastric so near to the origin of the latter, then it takes a more circuitous course, and runs round nearly three-fourths of the circumference of the crural ring, as is seen in the woodcut, No. 6, fig. h. § For cases of this kind see Sir Astley Cooper’s work on Crural Hernia, second edition, page 26; and Plate VIII. fig. 4, in which Dr. Barclay’s preparation is engraved; also a paper by Mr. Wardrop, in the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, for April 1806, page 203, with a drawing.