108 SAPHENOUS OPENING OF THE inch below Poupart’s ligament, in the common femoral vein, which is marked l. «J.The external incision which must be made to take up the superficial femoral artery. n. The chain and hook which hold aside the round ligament of the uterus. o. The umbilicus. p. The situation of the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium of the right side. 1. The inferior cornu of the saphenous opening of the fascia lata. 2. The superior cornu ; it is seen to bend inwards underneath the pubal extremity of Poupart’s ligament, and to be in- serted in front of Gimbernat’s ligament, into the pubic por- tion of the fascia lata, near to the ileo-pectineal line. It is sometimes called the femoral ligament, Hey’s ligament, and the falciform process of the iliac portion of the fascia lata. 3. Gimbernat’s ligament. 4. The tendon of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen, with the intercolumnar fibres marked upon it. Some of the fleshy fibres of the internal oblique muscle are seen through the intervals between the fibres of the tendon of the external oblique, which, commencing to split at 6, form by their divergence, as they proceed towards the spine and symphysis of the pubis, the external abdominal ring atg. 7. The mons, into which the round ligament of the uterus is inserted. The flap of the integument and superficial fascia, which is marked 5, has been reflected over the outer aspect of the limb. The saphenous opening of the fascia lata *—This aperture, which is of an oval figure, is situated at the superior and inner part of the inguinal region, immediately external to the tube- rosity of the os pubis, and at a little distance beneath the pubal extremity of Poupart’s ligament. The longest diameter of the saphenous opening is about one inch and a half, and is directed obliquely downwards and outwards. When it is measured across, the breadth of the opening will rarely be found to exceed half an inch in extent. Slight variations from these admeasurements will, however, be occasionally found to exist in different subjects. * Foramen saphenum; Lacuna pro vasis cruralibus externa; L’ouverture infSrieure du canal crural.