THE SUPERFICIAL VEINS AND ARTERIES. 99 it lies exactly underneath the line of the first incisions that are usually made in Scarpa’s operation of tying the trunk of the su- perficial femoral artery for the cure of popliteal aneurism ; it must, therefore, be very liable to be wounded, (a circumstance which, from the great size of the vein, it would be very de- sirable to avoid,) if the first incisions be not made with a sufficient degree of caution. Immediately before its termi- nation, the internal saphena vein receives three or four branches of smaller size, which converge to meet with it at this point: they are,—1. Vena epigastrica superjicialis; 2. Vena pudica externa ; and 3. Vena circumjlexa ilii externa. These veins correspond in their course and distribution with the superficial branches of the femoral artery of the same name. (See Plate I. figs. 3, 4, 5.)| After the superficial lymphatics and veins have been exa- mined, attention should, in the next place, be turned towards the superficial branches of the common femoral artery, which ramify between the lamellae of the superficial fascia. These are commonly four or five in number, and have been severally named as follows: 1. Arteria epigastrica superjicialis ; 2. Ar- teria pudenda externce, superior et inferior; 3. Arteria cir- cumflexa ilii externa. (See Plate I. figs. 6, 7, 8, and 9 ; and Plate III. figs, r, s, t.) 1. Arteria epigastrica externa, vel superjicialisis a small branch which springs from the trunk of the common femoral artery, a little below Poupart’s ligament; and after emerging through the saphenous opening, or more frequently through a small aperture in the iliac portion of the fascia lata, ascends in an oblique course, upwards and inwards, over the crural arch, where it is placed between the two layers of the superficial fascia of the abdomen : it terminates near the umbilicus, by dividing into a number of ramusculi which anastomose with the branches of the deep epigastric and internal mammary arteries, which issue from numerous small apertures in the tendon of the external oblique muscle. t Where it is convenient to do so, it is advisable to inject the saphena and femoral veins with melted wax, or tallow, by means of a pipe intro- duced into the former vessel as it passes behind the inner side of the knee- joint; the other veins may be also injected from smaller pipes introduced into them as they ramify upon the parietes of the abdomen. t “ Arteria ad cutem abdominis—Haller. H 2