130 INCOMPLETE FEMORAL HERNIA. inferior aperture or outlet of that passage, the disease is said to form an incomplete femoral hernia.-f* The peritonaeum forming the sac of this variety of hernia is now covered by the structures which have just been described as being pushed down before it, j and rests upon the pubic portion of the fascia lata, only separated from it by the fascia iliaca, form- ing the posterior Avail of the crural canal : in front of it is the superior cornu of the saphenous opening, or falciform process of the iliac portion of the fascia lata; it is separated on its ex- ternal side from the femoral vein by the septum, or membranous process, which is naturally interposed between that vessel and the mass of the absorbents of the inferior extremity ; and on the side which is next the pubes, it is limited by the internal wall of the funnel-shaped sheath of the vessels. The incomplete femoral hernia forms a tumour of very small size, and is a dangerous variety of the disease, since its presence cannot always be clearly ascertained, particularly in corpulent persons, by any manual examination, however carefully and skil- fully conducted; for the swelling is greatly obscured by being so firmly bound down by the falciform process constituting the an- terior wall of the crural canal. Numerous cases have been recorded of patients having lost their lives in consequence of the strangulation of a small knuckle of the intestine within the neck of the sac of an incomplete fe- moral hernia; but which, as there was no external tumour pre- sent to which the symptoms could be satisfactorily referred, Avere regarded as instances of ileus, peritonitis, or some other internal affection of the alimentary canal, and treated as such, but of course, without any success.^ On the examination of the body after the death of the individuals thus affected, a very small part of the small intestine, not exceeding, in the majority f This variety is described by Sir Astley Cooper as the hernia within the sheath of the crural vessels.—Cooper on Crural Hernia, p. 25. X These membranes become blended together by the pressure of the tu- mour, and are united into one, which has been termed by Sir Astley Cooper th e fascia propria of the sac.—Op.citat. p. 2. § For cases of this kind see Surgical Observations, by Sir Charles Bell, Part II, p. 181; Nouveaux Elements de Medecine Op6ratoire, par Alf. L. M. Velpeau, t. ii. pp. 330-1; Mr. Else’s case in the Med. Obs. and Inq. vol. iv. p. 355; and Mr. Lawrence's work on Hernia, 4th edit. p. 493.