THE ANATOMY OF FEMORAL OR CRURAL HERNIA. 93 from the external organs of generation, which should be re- moved with the razor previously to the performance of any operation upon this part. Numerous sebaceous follicles are situated underneath the shin, particularly near to the angle of the flexure of the thigh; and it not unfrequently happens that in young children, and in adults who are exceedingly corpulent, these glands secrete a thin, acrimonious, and irritating matter, which, if not quickly removed, excoriates the adjoining surfaces, and from the con- tinual chafing of the parts, which ensues upon the constant motions of the limb, gives rise to considerable irritation and annoyance of the patient. When this has happened, the most effectual treatment consists in the continued application of the Goulard lotion, with a strict attention to cleanliness by fre- quent ablutions of the affected parts, which greatly tends to prevent the secretion from lodging in the flexure of the thigh, and renders it thus much less acrid and irritating in its pro- perties. The process of cicatrisation of all ulcerations in this part is very frequently greatly retarded because sufficient attention is not paid to enforce absolute rest of the limb, and the main- tenance of the thigh in that position which is most favourable to the gradual approximation of the edges of the sore, viz. flexed upon the abdomen by means of a large pillow placed underneath the knee. I have frequently seen instances in which many ulcerations situated in the groin, which had existed for a considerable length of time, and resisted all other means em- ployed to cure them, assumed the healing process almost imme- diately upon the adoption of these principles in their treatment, viz. rest, and the flexed position of the thigh upon the pelvis. Suppurated buboes, and other superficial abscesses of the groin, ought to be early opened by a free incision, which should be made in the direction of Poupart’s ligament when the swell- ing is situated over it, but through their longest diameter when they are formed lower down upon the front of the thigh. When a bubo has been permitted to burst of itself, there frequently remains an obstinate indolent ulcer, the edges of which are thin, undermined, and of a dull purplish or leaden colour. When this is the case the edges should be freely incised at several points of the circumference of the sore, so as to allow of their free retraction, when they usually coalesce by granu-