149 FEMORAL IIERNIA. ring into the belly, it may be either left in the sac, or cut off with the knife, taking the precaution of tying each of the bleed- ing vessels, as they arc divided, with a small thread. If the omentum should be gangrened, the mortified portion may be excised, and such vessels as bleed ligatured; the remainder may then be reduced into the neck of the sac, where it is to be retained by the ends of the ligatures which hang out at the external wound. Before the operation is concluded, the extremity of the little finger should be introduced into the neck of the sac, in order to ascertain with certainty that the hernia has been fairly reduced into the belly; as instances have occurred in which operations, in all other respects well performed, have failed in affording re- lief, in consequence of the intestine being entangled at the neck of the sac, or even pushed up between the peritonseum and the fasciae lining the iliac fossa.*f* The operation having been finish- ed, and the intestines fairly reduced, the edges of the wound should be brought together with one or two points of suture, after which a pledgit of lint may be applied, supported by a compress and spica bandage. Treatment after the operation.—The principal circumstance requiring attention after the reduction of the intestine, is the also did well.—(Pract. Obs.p. 161 ; 2nd edit.) Arnaud relates the case of a young man who died a few minutes after the operation for strangulated fe- moral hernia, in whom it was afterwards found that the artery of the spermatic cord had been divided.—(Mem. de Chirurg. tom. i. p. 758.) Sir Astley Cooper mentions a case in which the surgeon, mistaking a fe- moral for an inguinal hernia, cut the stricture at the crural ring in a direction towards the ilium, and in consequence wounded the femoral vein. The ven- ous hemorrhage was very profuse, and delayed the operation fifteen minutes, and was stopped with very great difficulty. He also mentions another case, in which the surgeon cut outwards, acting under the same mistaken impres- sion, and narrowly escaped destroying his patient.—(Sir Astley Cooper on Crural Hernia, p. 4 ; 2nd edit.) t The following case illustrates the importance of attending to this rule :— An old woman, who had laboured several days under symptoms of strangu- lated femoral hernia, submitted to the operation. The surgeon, having ex- posed the sac, divided the stricture formed by Poupart’s ligament; but the sac itself was not opened at the first, for it was considered to be the intestine. It was endeavoured to reduce the hernia satisfactorily, but in vain; when, on closer examination, it was found that the peritonaeal sac had not been divided. The sac was now fully opened, and, as the stricture had been divided