95 THE SUPERFICIAL FASCIA OF THE THIGH. The external or cutaneous lamella of the superficial fascia of the groin is a thin stratum of cellulo-fibrous membrane, of considerable density and firmness ; it is traversed by a number of whitish lines, bands of condensed cellular tissue, which are disposed in a transverse direction, parallel with Poupart’s liga- ment, near to which they appear most distinctly marked, as they gradually diminish towards the middle of the thigh, below which point they finally disappear. The external lamella of the super- ficial fascia of the groin extends over Poupart’s ligament and the crista of the ilium, but without adhering closely to these structures, and is continuous with the corresponding layer of the superficial fascia which covers the abdominal parietes.j* The external lamella of the superficial fascia is, in the next place, to be dissected off from the cutaneous vessels and glands which lie beneath it, and then reflected over the outer aspect of the limb, in the same manner as the skin. (See Plate III. z.) Some care is required in doing this, in order that the subjacent structures may remain uninjured, as they rest upon the deep lamella which separates them from the fascia lata. With this view it is most advisable to commence raising the external la- mella at the inferior and internal angle of the incisions, where it covers the saphena vein, and thence to pursue the dissec- tion along the course of that vessel, and its numerous contri- butory branches which ramify underneath it. (See Plate I. figs. 1 to 9.) EXPLANATION OF PLATE I. This plate represents a view of the structures which are exposed when the skin and the external lamella of the super- ficial fascia of the groin have been dissected, and reflected over the outer border of the thigh. The margin of the saphenous opening of the fascia lata is partially exposed towards its upper and inner part. a. The anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. b. The spinous process, or tuberosity of the os pubis. c. Poupart’s ligament, which is stretched between these two points. d. The iliac, or external portion of the fascia lata. great a quantity of adipose substance being deposited in the cellular tissue between its lamellae. t See Part III. the Surgical Anatomy of Inguinal Hernia.