INTERNAL VIEW 124 EXPLANATION OF PLATE V. Fig.1. This plate represents the internal view of the structure and relations of the crural ring. The parietes of the lower part of the abdomen have been laid freely open by a crucial incision, and the triangular-shaped flap on the left side is held upwards and forwards by means of a hook, while the flap of the opposite is thrown over the upper part of the right thigh. The small intestines, with the sigmoid flexure of the colon, have been removed from the iliac fossa -and cavity of the pelvis; after which the peritoneum and subserous cellular tissue were carefully detached from the fasciae and great vessels of this re- gion. a. The situation of the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. b. The symphysis pubis. c. The pecten of the horizontal branch of the os pubis. d. Poupart’s ligament. e. Gimbernat’s ligament; the thin and sharp lunated edge of which regards the external iliac vein, from which it is distant about half an inch, which is the usual width of the crural ring. f. g. The fascia transversalis, which at f covers the rectus muscle, and at g the transversalis. h. i. The fascia iliaca, which covers at h the iliacus internus mus- cle, and atg the psoas magnus. The fasciae, iliaca and trans- versalis, unite with one another along the internal surface of Poupart’s ligament, in the interval between the spine of the ilium and the great vessels, the line of their junction being indicated by a whitish tendinous band. When they have arrived at the iliac border of the artery, they separate from each other, the fascia transversalis passing in front of the vessels, and the fascia iliaca behind them, so as to form the anterior and posterior walls of the funnel-shaped sheath of the femoral vessels; they afterwards reunite with each other upon the inner surface of Gimbemat’s ligament. The dark space between the lunated edge of Gimbernat’s ligament and the femoral vein is the crural ring, through which a femoral hernia commences its descent from the abdomen. The an- terior boundary is formed by the posterior border of Pou- part’s ligament; internally, by Gimbernat’s ligament; poste- riorly, by the ileo-pectineal line of the os pubis; and exter- nally, by the external iliac vein and artery. The deep epi- gastric artery runs obliquely upwards along the superior and