LIGATURE OF THE POPLITEAL ARTERY. 190 the wound by means of a retractor, or by the finger of an assistant. The sheath of the vessels having been opened to a sufficient extent (about one inch) to admit of the aneurism nee- dle being passed around the artery, much advantage in the exe- cution of this step of the operation will be gained by causing the knee-joint to be slightly flexed for the purpose of relaxing the hamstring muscles, which position will permit the surgeon to ob- tain a more distinct view of the important structures that occupy the deeper part of the ham. The aneurism needle, armed with a single ligature, should be passed from without inwards, so as more effectually to exclude the possibility of injuring the coats of the vein. The popliteal artery alone having been included in the ligature, it is to be secured in the ordinary manner. In some persons the popliteal vein is double, and then the artery may lie between them ; a circumstance which would require greater care to be exercised by the operator while carry- ing the needle round the artery. The cases in which this operation may be performed are those in which a profuse hemorrhage follows a deep wound in the popliteal region, when it might be considered advisable to enlarge the original wound for the purpose of exposing the wounded vessel, and securing it by a ligature placed above and below the opening in its coats; another case is, where there is an aneurism of some of the deep-seated arteries of the leg, or repeated secondary hemorrhage from a wound of one of these, and in which it is found impossible to secure the mouth of the bleeding vessel.Some surgeons, however, would prefer, in all such cases, performing the ligature of the superficial femoral artery, to the operation of securing the popliteal artery itself. When we regard the great number and considerable size of the branches which are furnished from the popliteal vessels and the great sciatic nerve to the heads of the gastrocnemius, soleus, and plantaris muscles, as well as the possibility of the existence of a high division of the trunk of the popliteal artery itself, we have, I think, sufficient reasons for renouncing the operations, which are described by sytematic writers, of placing a ligature upon that vessel in the latter part of its course. | In the spring of 1835 Mr. Cooper tied the popliteal artery with com- plete success, in the case of a young man who was suffering under repeated secondary hemorrhage from a deep wound in the calf of the leg.