195 DISLOCATION ON THE DORSUM ILII. bone may be distinguished, if the patient be thin, or there be not present much swelling from extravasated blood, moving in its new position upon the dorsum ilii; but neither abduction, rota- tion outwards, nor extension of the limb can be performed ; any attempt at which is accompanied with very great pain to the pa- tient. The trochanter major is rather less prominent than na- tural, since the neck of the bone lies in the same line with the dorsal surface of the ilium ; in addition to which it is situated much nearer to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. From the same cause, the usual roundness of the hip is also obliterated. To all these symptoms it may be useful to add, that the limb appears immoveably fixed in its new position ; from which it cannot be removed without the employment of con- siderable force, which must also be used in the proper direction. In this dislocation much injury is sustained by the muscles more immediately surrounding the hip-joint : the pyriformis, quadratus femoris, obturatores externus and interims, with the gemelli, are frequently torn near their insertions into the trochanteric fossa ; the fibres of the pectineus, and some of those of the adductor brevis, are also occasionally torn. The capsular ligament of the hip-joint is extensively lacerated to- wards its external and superior aspect, and the ligamentum teres is torn across. The head of the bone has been found lying, in some cases, between the gluteus maximus and medius, and in other instances between the latter muscle and the gluteus minimus a large quantity of blood is also found extravasated between these muscles, and in the subcutaneous cellular tissue over the region of the hip-joint. Reduction. — If the patient be very strong and muscular, or if a considerable time has been permitted to elapse after the receipt of the injury, the attempt to reduce the head of the bone into its proper position should be preceded by the administration of large nauseating doses of the tartar emetic, aided, if necessary, by copious vensesection and the use of the hot bath. As soon as these remedies have produced their intended effects, the patient should be placed upon a firm table, or in a large bed, lying upon his sound side : the pelvis is to be maintained in a fixed position, by means of a band carried round between the perinamm and the upper part of f See Sir Astley Cooper on Dislocations, v. p. 90 ; and the Dublin Hos- pital Reports, vol. iii. p. 395. o 2