VARIETIES OF FEMORAL HERNIA. 136 tlic front and inner side of the. thigh towards the knee, instead of being tilted upwards as is usual in ordinary cases. The largest femoral hemise seen by Sir Astlcy Cooper were of the size of the fist, and occupied the entire of the hollow from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to the tuberosity of the pubes. Professor Thompson mentions a case of irreducible femoral hernia in a woman, which extended half-way down the thigh, and in which the parietes of the sac were so thin that the peristaltic motion of the intestine could be distinctly per- ceived.f In the spring of the year 1836, a woman who la- boured under symptoms of incarceration of the contents of an immense femoral hernia on the right side, was admitted into the College Hospital, under the care of Mr. Cooper ; the tumour, which was as large as as a man’s head, reached about half- way down to the knee. Its contents were chiefly intestine, and could, with some difficulty, be reduced into the belly ; but it was not easy to retain them there. This enormous hernia had ensued upon the performance of the operation for a stran- gulated femoral hernia, on the same side, about eight years pre- viously, since which time she had neglected to wear her truss constantly-! Section III. DIAGNOSIS OF FEMORAL HERNIA. The affections of the groin which are most liable to Be con- founded with femoral hernia, and to render the diagnosis ob- scure, are inguinal hernise, enlargements of the inguinal glands, varicose enlargement of the femoral vein, encysted tumours, and lumbar abscess. A femoral hernia, so long as it remains in a simple reducible state, is easily recognised by the situation of the tumour, more particularly of its neck or deep-seated part—by reference to the history of its origin and progress—by the increase of size and f Vide Cooper on Crural Hernia, 2d edit. p. 1 ; and Plate III. fig. 3, Plate VIII. fig. 2. Much useful and valuable information will be derived from a perusal of the fourth chapter of Sir Astley Cooper’s work on Crural Hernia, 2d edit. p. 25, entitled “ Of the Varieties of Crural Hernia.” t Several similar cases are related by Mr. Lawrence as having occurred cither under his own observation, or in the practice of others. Vide Law- rence on Ruptures, 5th edit.p. 488.