VARIETIES OF THE FEMORAL ARTERY. 163 while it is concecalcd in the tendon of the triceps ; it runs along in the substance of the vastus internus muscle to the knee, where it joins with the vascular plexus which is formed around that joint by the articular branches of the popliteal artery. (See Plate VII. fig. p.) The femoral artery gives off, also, several small and irregular branches to the muscles which are situated on either side of its course ; but they have not received any particular names. Varieties.—The circumflex arteries frequently arise from the common femoral, instead of the profunda ; the epigastric artery has been seen, though rarely, to arise from the inner side of the common femoral artery; and the epigastric itself has been observed, in some instances, to give origin to the internal circum- flex artery. The profunda artery rarely arises from the femoral lower down than two inches from Poupart’s ligament; but, on the other hand, it is not unfrequently seen to take its origin at various intermediate points between that distance and the lower border of the crural arch : all which are circumstances of great importance in the consideration of the comparative merits of the operations of placing a ligature upon the common, and su- perficial femoral, and external iliac arteries, with the view of arrest- ing the violent secondary hemorrhages which occasionally ensue after severe injuries and amputations of the inferior extremity. Sir Charles Bell operated upon a negro who was affected with popliteal aneurism, in whom it was afterwards found that the superficial femoral artery was double, and that the two trunks were again united as they entered the popliteal space. In this case the blood in the sac of the aneurism was, nevertheless, coagulated ; although a considerable quantity had continued to circulate through it from the artery which had not been in- cluded in the ligature.-f* M. Manec, in his work upon the ligature of the arteries, relates an instance in which the superficial femoral artery was absent altogether, and its place supplied by the sciatic artery, which descended upon the back of the thigh to become the popliteal.:): t See the Lancet, vol. x. 1825-6, p. 629; The Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. iv. p. 313; Anderson’s Quarterly Journal for October 1826 ; and San- difort, Obs. Pathol, iv. 97. t Vide A Theoretical and Practical Treatise upon the Ligature of Arteries; translated from the French of M. J. Manec. Lond. 4to. 1832, p. 209. M 2