198 DISLOCATION INTO THE FORAMEN OVALE. Reduction.—The reduction of this dislocation is the most difficult to be effected of all those to which the head of the thigh-bone is subject; but it is best effected in the following manner:—The patient must be laid upon his sound side, and the pelvis fixed by a girth passed between the inside of the thigh and the perinteum ; a wetted roller is next to be applied round the lower part of the thigh, above the knee, upon which the extending band may be firmly fixed. The knee is to be bent, and the affected thigh brought over the middle of the sound one ; in which direction the extension should be made. While the extension is maintained, an assistant should be instructed to lift up the head of the bone out of the iscliiatic notch, in which it is lodged, by means of a napkin passed underneath the upper part of the thigh ; observing, at the same time, to keep the pelvis pressed firmly down upon the table.'}' On tvro occasions, I have known much injury done by vio- lent attempts to reduce this dislocation, when more than three months had elapsed after the receipt of the injury : in one of these cases, the thigh-bone was broken across in its upper part; and, in the second, the patient lost his life in consequence of extensive abscesses which subsequently formed within the cavity of the pelvis, and were produced by the force employed in the fruitless endeavour to disengage the head of the femur from the iscliiatic notch. 2. The dislocation downwards and forwards into the fora- men ovale. — This accident may happen when a person is thrown violently upon the ground, while the limb is separated widely from the mesial line of the body, so that the head of the femur is rudely driven against the internal part of the circum- ference of the capsular ligament where it is weakest. The symptoms of this dislocation are, the increased length of the limb, which is two inches longer than the other ; the trochanter major is less prominent than on the sound side ; the knee is advanced, and bent forwards, at the same time that it is widely separated from the other, and cannot be brought anv nearer the axis of the body without exciting very great pain. The body is inclined forwards, owing to the tense state of the psoas and iliacus internus muscles. The glu- t See Sir Astley Cooper's work, plate ix. fig. 3.