FASCIA LATA. 109 The margin of the saphenous opening is thin, and very sharply defined, particularly underneath the internal saphena vein, where that vessel is about to empty its contents into the common femoral vein ; and, if it be carefully traced upwards on either side from this point, will be found to terminate in two elongated processes, or cornua, each of which is slightly in- curvated towards the centre of the aperture; so that the edge of the opening has been commonly termed the cres- centic margin. The inferior cornu inclines obliquely upwards and inwards, and soon becomes blended with the pubic portion of the fascia lata covering the pectineus muscle. (Plate II. fig. I.) The superior cornu is much longer than the preceding, and is also more curved in its direction; for, after it has ascended in front of the femoral vessels, it bends down underneath the pubal extremity of Poupart’s ligament, and terminates by being in- serted into the pubic portion of the fascia lata at its attachment, in front of Gimbernat’s ligament, to the ileo-pectineal line. The superior cornu of the saphenous opening is particularly deserving of attention ; since it must, in consequence of its attachments and curved direction, arch completely over the neck of the sac of a complete femoral hernia, and moreover has been frequently described by many eminent surgical writers as forming the principal seat of stricture in cases of strangulated crural hernia. (See Plate II. fig. 2. ; and Plate III. fig. i.) The late Mr. Hey, of Leeds, named it the femoral liga- ment,-f* and strongly recommended its division as the means of removing the stricture of the gut in the operation for strangu- lated femoral hernia. Since the period at which he wrote it has been commonly described by other writers under the appel- lation of Hey s ligament. Mr. Allan Burns, also, has described the superior cornu very t Mr. Hey, who was accustomed to divide the stricture of femoral hernia in an oblique direction upwards, writes thus : “ The union of the falciform process of the fascia lata with Gimbernat’s ligament, together with the sheath of the great vessels, form a ring, through which the femoral hernia descends, and by which it is compressed in the strangulated state.”—See the expla- nation of Plate VI. and also of Plate V. marked b; Plate IV. fig. g.; in Mr. Iley’s Practical Observations in Surgery. Second Edition, 8vo. 1810.