THE CRURAL RING. .11G artery is seen to arise from a common trunk with the internal epigastric, and to run round the superior and internal edges of the crural ring. *• The crural ring. k. The internal or deep epigastric artery, giving off h, the obturator artery, as it is running over the superior and external angle of the crural ring. 1. The fascia iliaca, which joins with the fascia transversalis (at g. g.) between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium (a), and the external iliac artery (e); it is seen to pass underneath the iliac artery and vein, and thus to form, by passing out with them through the crural ring, the posterior part of the funnel-shaped sheath of the femoral vessels, m. The fascia transversalis, which covers the internal surface of the abdominal muscles, and, 'passing out of the crural ring in the same manner as the fascia iliaca, forms the anterior wall of the funnel-shaped sheath of the femoral vessels, n. The round ligament of the uterus, cut across as it emerges througji the internal abdominal ring, to enter into the inguinal canal, o. The rectus muscle uncovered of the fascia transversalis. If a femoral hernia were formed in an individual in whom this variety from the usual course of the obturator artery existed, the neck of the sac would be surrounded by important vessels upon three-fourths of its circumference, requiring that great caution should be exercised in the use of the knife, while enlarging the margins of the crural ring for the removal of the stric- ture in the operation for the relief of strangulated femoral hernia. If the finger be again introduced into the crural canal, as far as the crural ring, while the leg and thigh are extended, and abducted from the mesial line, at the same time that the foot is rotated outwards, all the tendinous structures which enter into the formation of this canal and its orifices will, in this position of the limb, be found very firm and resisting, and the extremity of the finger which is in the canal very sensibly constricted, more particularly so at the superior orifice, where the posterior edge of Poupart’s ligament, with the lunated border of Gimbernat’s ligament, may be plainly distinguished by the tense and sharp margins which they present when the pulp of the finger is directed either towards the anterior or internal boundaries of the crural ring. Still keeping the finger in the crural canal, let the position of the limb be changed, the thigh be raised up- wards and bent upon the belly, at the same time that the knee is rotated inwards and towards the opposite side : when this has been done, the parietes of the crural ring will be observed to be immediately relaxed to a remarkable degree, so that the extre- mity of the finger, which previously was introduced with diffi- culty, may now be moved freely within the canal. This altera- tion in the relative position and degree of tension of the parietes