138 DIAGNOSIS OF FEMORAL HERNIA. latcd femoral licrnia ; moreover, tlic two may occur together— and it is of importance to remember that a femoral hernia may be situated, and its contents become strangulated, behind an en- larged gland.j* In the greater number of cases, however, a glandular enlarge- ment may be distinguished from a femoral hernia by the greater mobility of the swollen gland upon its base, and the extent to which it may be easily moved from side to side, at the same time that it is frequently possible to grasp and lift up the tumour in such a manner that the tips of the fingers may be inserted underneath it ; circumstances which, joined with the history of the case, will go far to prove that the swelling cannot be a hernia.^ It has now become an established maxim in the practice of surgery, when there is present a tumour in the situation of a femoral hernia, the nature of which cannot be satisfactorily determined, and there supervene symptoms of strangulation of + Mr. Cooper mentions a case which occurred in his own practice, in which the diagnosis was rendered more than usually difficult by a mass of diseased fat and glands; but on dissecting deeply, the sac, which was very small, was detected lurking behind several large glands, and the stricture divided. The woman got quickly well, Mr. Cooper remarks, as most pa- tients do in whose cases the operation is not deferred till too much inflam- mation and other mischief have had time to take place. Vide the First Lines of the Practice of Surgery, 6th edit. p. 504, t If the following cases be contrasted with each other, it will show how contradictory symptoms will sometimes prove, and how much must be left, in similar instances, to be decided by the particular tact and judgment of the surgeon:— Mr. Macilwain, surgeon to the Truss Society of the City of London, was requested to visit a woman who had laboured for several days under all the rational symptoms of strangulated intestine, such as hiccough, nausea, vomiting of stercoraceous matter, and absolute constipation; in addition to which there was a firm, smooth, and somewhat elastic tu- mour, occupying the situation of the crural ring; the skin covering the swelling Avas quite natural. Mr. Macilwain considered that, under all the circumstances, it would be best to cut down to the swelling, which he accordingly did immediately, but only found an enlarged gland with a sup- purating cavity in the centre. The woman eventually recovered under the exhibition of purgatives combined with opium. Vide Surgical Observations, by G. Macilwain; 8vo. London, 1830; p. 308. Sir Astley Cooper was called to a lady who had laboured under symp- toms of strangulated hernia for several days, during which time she had been