LIGATURE OF TIIE FEMORAL ARTERY. 165 vein, which it accompanies as far as the inner edge of the foot, whence it passes onwards to the great toe. The other branch is rather smaller than the preceding, and lies a little more exter- nally ; it does not, therefore, enter into the sheath of the ves- sels, but inclines towards the vastus internus, the fibres of which it soon pierces in its descent to the knee-joint, upon which it is finally distributed. The obturator nerve, which also furnishes branches to the articulations of the hip and knee, anastomoses with some of the branches of the internal saphenous nerve. The severe pain which is so commonly felt on the inner side of the knee by patients suffering from coxalgia is, doubtless, owing to the irritation which the trunks of these nerves suffer in consequence of their proximity to the hip-joint. OF THE LIGATURE OF THE ARTERIES OF THE THIGH. The operation of placing a ligature upon the superficial femoral artery is most commonly performed for the cure of popliteal aneurisms, or to arrest the profuse secondary hemorrhages which sometimes follow compound fractures and deep wounds of the leg, where it is frequently impossible to determine with preci- sion the exact source of the bleeding; or when it occurs after amputation below the knee, at a period when the stump is not in a condition to allow of the wound being re-opened, and an endeavour made to secure the open mouth of the vessel. The superficial femoral artery may be tied in two different parts of its course ; in the middle third of the thigh, before it passes through the opening in the triceps muscle to enter into the popliteal region, or where it lies in the upper third before it is crossed by the sartorius muscle. Mr. Hunter’s operation.—Previously to the year 1785, sur- geons were in the constant habit of laying open the sac of a popliteal or femoral aneurism, and, after scooping out its con- tents, placing a ligature upon the artery, above and below the aperture in its coats; but this operation, besides being very difficult and tedious in its performance, was so rarely followed by success, that many excellent operators preferred performing amputation of the thigh. It was at this period that Mr. Hunter introduced the present practice of exposing the artery at a dis-