118 THE EUNNEL-SIIAPED SHEATH Dissection to expose the f unnel-shaped sheath of the great fe- moral vessels.—The funnel-shaped sheath of the femoral vessels may now be dissected, and its structure examined. (See the woodcut No. 2, at page 87, fig. *.) For this purpose the iliac portion of the fascia lata should be cut away from its connexion with the lower edge of Poupart’s ligament, and its internal extremity, or the falciform process, detached from its insertion into the pubic portion of the fascia lata in front of Gimber- nat’s ligament; the triangular-shaped flap which is thus marked out may be carefully raised from the subjacent structures, and reflected downwards and outwards over the lower part of the rectus and vastus externus muscles. The fleshy fibres of the sartorius, iliacus, and psoas muscles, on the external or iliac side of the vessels, must be neatly exposed by removing the con- densed cellular tissue that invests them ; at the same time, the anterior crural and external cutaneous nerves, with the superficial femoral artery and vein, may be displayed as is seen in Plate IV. fig. 1, 2, S.j* The pectineus, adductor longus, and gracilis muscles, are to be shown by removing the pubic portion of the fascia lata. The funnel-shaped sheath of the great vessels.—When these directions have been followed, the femoral vessels will be found to be inclosed in a perfect sheath, or membranous investment, which is formed in front by the prolongation upon them of the fascia transversalis, which descends behind Poupart’s ligament. oblique muscle into the hollow at the centre of the groin, before any endea- vour is made to push it upwards into the belly. It is manifest that the employment of the taxis must be very injurious, and extremely dangerous, if continued for ever so short a time, unless the angle, which the fundus of the sac forms with the neck in cases of complete femoral hernia, be effaced by thus bringing down the chief bulk of the tumour from the situation in which it is placed. The delicacy of the manoeuvre of introducing the point of the bistoury under the edge of the stricture for its division in cases of strangulated hernia may also be illustrated in this manner, and the necessity shown of protecting the folds of the intestine which lie within the sac, with the fingers of the left hand, during this important step of the operation, lest they should slip before the edge of the knife, and be wounded as it is raised to enlarge the deep-seated ring. The protruded portion of the intestine may, in the next place, be gently replaced within the abdomen, as after the ope- ration has been performed in the living subject. t The sheath of the vessels is very well displayed in Plate XIV. fig. c, e, of Sir Charles Bell’s Dissections, folio. Edin. 1799.