OF THE CRURAL RING. 123 made to carry tlie peritonaeum so far before it as to allow of its being plainly perceived upon tlie outer surface of tlie groin, where it projects through the lower aperture of the crural canal, —the saphenous opening of the fascia lata. The peritonaeum should, in the next place, be removed from the internal surface of this portion of the abdominal parietes, in order that the external iliac vessels, together with the fasciae which cover the psoas, iliacus, and transversalis muscles, may be completely exposed. The peritonaeum is connected to these fasciae (the fascia trans- versalis and fascia iliaca) by some loose cellular tissue, which rea- dily allows of the peritonaeum being dragged down from the iliac fossa to a great extent, so as to form the sac in cases of large fe- moral herniae. This layer of cellular substance, which lies externally to the peritonaeum, has been named the subserous cellular and in corpulent subjects is frequently found to be of considerable thickness, and to resemble very much in its appearance the omen- tum, for which, indeed, it has sometimes been mistaken by the most experienced surgeons during the progress of operations for the exposure of the sac in cases of strangulated femoral hernia. In some instances the subserous cellular tissue will be found to furnish a large, thick, and tolerably firm process of a pyriform figure, which, descending through the crural canal, projects by its larger extremity through the saphenous opening, where it forms a distinct tumour, possessing all the external characters of a portion of the omentum inclosed within a delicate sac, so that it is easily mistaken at the first view, and before the complete dissection of the parts, for an example of femoral hernia contain- ing omentum.| Cysts containing a clear albuminous, or sometimes, sanguino- lent fluid, have been found in the subserous cellular tissue lying over the sac of a strangulated femoral hernia, so as to render the operation a much more delicate proceeding than it is usually found to be.§ t Fascia propria of the French anatomists. t Several preparations illustrative of these appearances of the subserous cellular tissue are preserved in the Museum of University College. § See a clinical lecture by Mr. Cooper, which is reported in the London Medical Gazette of March 2,1839, p. 836.