DIVISIONS OF THE FASCIA LATA. 107 vessels and their slieatli, is named the inner or pubic portion. These divisions of the fascia lata are continuous, as has been already mentioned, with one another, underneath the angle which is formed by the junction of the internal saphena with the common femoral vein. The external ox iliac portion of the fascia lata extends up- wards and inwards, in a curved direction, from the point just now mentioned, to be inserted into the pubic portion, close to the root of the tuberosity of the os pubis, and in front of Gim- bernat’s ligament. This portion of the fascia lata is also strongly attached to the lower edge of Poupart’s ligament, between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the spine of the os pubis ; it is in consequence of this connexion be- tween these structures that the crural arch is rendered so much more tense and unyielding when the thigh is extended, abduct- ed, and rotated outwards, than when it is placed in the opposite positions. EXPLANATION OF PLATE II. This plate represents a view of the saphenous opening of the fascia lata, when all the cutaneous vessels and glands (which are represented in Plate I.) have been removed, with the exception of the great saphena vein. The cribriform la- mella of the superficial fascia has also been removed, with the inner wall of the crural canal, which was formed by the sheath of the femoral vessels, so as to render the crescentic margin of the saphenous opening more distinct. a. The anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. b. The spinous process or tuberosity of the os pubis. c. The crista of the os pubis, which supports the round liga- ment as it issues from the external abdominal ring. d. Poupart’s ligament, which is stretched across between the spines of the ilium and os pubis. e. The iliac, or external portion of the fascia lata. Three small foramina are seen here, which served for the exit of the superficial epigastric and circumflexa ilii arteries. f. The inner, or pubic portion of the fascia lata, which covers the upper part of the adductor longus and pectineus mus- cles, and afterwards passes behind the great femoral vessels. g. The external abdominal ring. /t.The fascia lata covering the sartorius muscle. i. The fascia lata covering the rectus muscle. /c. The internal, or great saphena vein, which terminates at one