SHEATH OF THE FEMORAL VESSELS. 90 e. The external iliac artery, f. The external iliac vein. g.g. g. The pos- terior surface of Poupart’s ligament, behind which the fascia iliaca (l) is seen uniting with the fascia transversalis (m). h. The fascia transversalis passing out of the pelvis upon the great vessels forming the anterior layer of their funnel-shaped sheath (seen in the woodcut No. 2, *). i. The crural ring, through which the femoral hernia descends, k. Gimbernat’s ligament, covered by the fascia transversalis. 1. The fascia iliaca, lining the psoas and iliacus internus muscles, and passing out of the pelvis underneath the iliac artery and vein, to form the posterior wall of the funnel-shaped sheath of the femoral vessels, m. The fascia transversalis, which lines the internal surface of the transversalis and rectus muscles, n. The situation of the internal ab- dominal ring: beneath the letter is seen the cut extremity of the round ligament of the uterus, which escapes here to enter into the inguinal canal, o. The rectus muscle dissected, p. The opening by which the obturator artery and nerve issue from the pelvis : the inner surface of the bone is here covered by the pelvic fascia, which is a continuation from the fascia iliaca.f The funnel-shaped sheath of the femoral vessels.—As the external iliac vessels emerge from the abdominal cavity, pass- ing underneath the crural arch, they assume the appellations of femoral artery and vein, and carry along with them a com- plete investment from the fasciae which line the internal sur- face of the iliac region ; this investment, or sheath, is, at the first, wide and loose around the vessels, and more particularly so upon the inner or pubal side of the great femoral vein, but it gradually contracts its dimensions as it descends upon the front of the thigh, (see Plate IV. fig. t, t,) and finally becomes intimately blended with the proper cellular tunic of the artery and vein opposite the point where the internal saphenous empties itself into the common femoral vein, and the profunda femoris arises from the common femoral artery. This production from the fascise which line the internal surface of the abdominal muscles has received, in consequence of its figure, the name of the funnel-shaped sheath of the femoral vessels. It may be described as being formed anteriorly by the fascia transversalis, and poste- riorly by the fascia iliaca ; it is also subdivided into three distinct compartments by the membranous septa which are situated one on each side of the femoral vein, and connect the anterior and posterior parietes of the sheath more firmly together. One of these septa is placed between the femoral artery and the vein, while the other lies on the inner or pubal side of the latter vessel, which it separates from the space that serves to trans- f Vide the Surgical Anatomy of the Perinacum, page 29, ct scq.