176 DISSECTION OF THE POrLITEAL REGION. pose substance removed, the cavity of the ham will be completely exposed to view, and an accurate and just idea of its great depth, and of the exact relation which the several important structures contained within its limits bear to each other, and to the bones which form the knee-joint, obtained. (See Plate VIII.) To complete the dissection of the popliteal region, the internal head of the gastrocnemius must be detached from its connexions to the inner condyle of the femur (fig. g), and reflected down- wards and outwards ; after which the lower part of the artery can b e easily dissected, and the inferior muscular and articular branches traced to their respective distribution. The muscles of the hack part of the thigh connected with the popliteal region.—The biceps flexor cruris arises by two heads, one of which is much longer than the other, and is attached to the outer surface of the tuberosity of the ischium; the short head is fixed to the linea aspera of the femur, between its inferior extremity and the insertion of the glutseus maximus muscle. The two portions of the muscle unite with each other a little above the knee-joint, and soon end in a tendon, which is inserted into the upper and outer surface of the head of the fibula, covering, at the same time, the external lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The structure of the muscle is fleshy, ex- cept at its origin from the tuber ischii, and at its insertion, which are tendinous. Relations—posteriorly with the glutaeus maxi- mus muscle, and the fascia lata; anteriorly, with the sciatic nerve, the adductor magnus muscle, the external articular arte- ries, the gastrocnemius externus, and the outer condyle of the knee-joint; the peronseal nerve is situated along the inner side of its tendon. This muscle forms the outer hamstring. The semi-tendinosus is attached superiorly to the posterior surface of the tuberosity of the ischium, and is also connected with the tendon of the biceps for about two inches below that point; near the commencement of the lower third of the thigh the muscular fibres end in a long round tendon, by which it is inserted into the inner border of the tibia, about two inches below the knee-joint. Superiorly, the structure of the muscle is fleshy ; inferiorly, it is tendinous. Relations — posteriorly with the biceps and fascia lata, and anteriorly with the adduc- tor magnus and semi-membranosus, upon the latter of which it rests in the lower part of the thigh, and behind the knee-