LIGATURE OF THE FEMORAL ARTERY. 166 tance from the disease, by removing the seat of the operation to the inner part of the front of the thigh, where the femoral artery lies under cover of the sartorius muscle. Mr. Hunter began Ids operation by making an incision of about three or four inches in length upon the anterior and inner part of the thigh, rather below its middle, which incision was continued obliquely across the inner edge of the sartorius muscle.-f- The fascia lata having been opened to the same extent as the incision of the integuments, the inner border of the sartorius muscle is exposed to view, and is then lifted to the outer side of the wound, so as to enable the operator to feel with his finger the pulsations of the artery as it lies underneath the tendinous aponeurosis, which is stretched over it from the vastus interims to the adductor muscles, and binds it down in this situation. A slight incision, about an inch long, is, in the next place, to be made through this fascia along the side of the artery, wdiich is now exposed. In this part of its course the vein usually lies behind the artery, and the great saphenous nerve rests upon its external border. (See Plate VII. fig. 5.) The artery being disengaged from its lateral connexions, the aneurism needle should be carried carefully round it, from within outwards, so as to avoid as much as possible doing any injury to the coats of the vein. The artery only having been included in the ligature, it is to be secured by the usual knot, and one end of the thread cut away ; after which the edges of the wound are to be brought neatly into apposition with each other by means of a few strips of adhesive plaister, aided, per- haps, by a couple of sutures. With the view of avoiding any injury to the saphena vein, and the numerous lymphatic vessels which run alongside of it, many surgeons have since recommended that the femoral artery should be exposed by making the incisions on the outer side of the sartorius muscle; but in this mode of performing the operation there is a greater liability to err in the search for the artery, by falling upon the fibres of the vastus internus muscle, which have been mistaken for those of the sartorius. The objections which have prevailed against Mr. Hunter’s operation, in favour of that proposed at a later period by t Vide Transactions of a Society for the Improvement of Medical and Chirurgical Knowledge; 8vo. Lond. 1793; vol. i. p. 148.