112 THE CRURAL CANAL. If the innermost compartment of the funnel-shaped sheath of the great vessels be opened, as it descends obliquely from within the lunated edge of Gimbcrnat’s ligament, to become blended with the external cellular coat of the femoral vein, at the point where the internal saphena vein opens into that ves- sel, a hollow space or cavity (the crural canal) will be exposed to view, but which in the undissected condition of the parts is occupied by some loose cellular tissue and lymphatic vessels. An absorbent gland will, occasionally, be found lying within this part of the sheath of the vessels. When these structures have been removed, the little finger may be introduced into the aperture made in the sheath of the vessels, and with the employ- ment of a gentle force may be easily passed upwards into the cavity of the abdomen ; a slight resistance only being offered to its progress by the cellular tissue which lines the external surface of the peritoneum, where it is stretched across the superior aperture of the crural canal. The crural canal is the short passage which extends between the saphenous opening of the fascia lata and the crural ring. It is formed by the innermost of the three compartments into which the funnel-shaped sheath of the great vessels is subdivided ; the other two divisions of the sheath being completely occu- pied by the trunks of the common femoral vein and artery. (See the woodcut No. 2, u, v, :r,and*.) The anterior wall of the crural canal seldom exceeds half an inch in extent, and is formed by the fascia transversalis, covered by the falciform process of the iliac portion of the fascia lata. The posterior wall is formed by the fascia iliaca, and is considerably longer than the anterior wall, for it measures nearly one inch in length ; it is sup- ported by the pubic portion of the fascia lata, which here binds down the fibres of the pectineus muscle. The external wall is formed by the femoral vein, or rather by the septum, which, lying along the pubal side of that vessel, serves to separate it from the trunks of the absorbent vessels of the lower extremity, and to connect the anterior and posterior parietes of the canal more firmly together. The internal wall is con- stituted by the fasciae transversalis and iliaca, as they unite with one another to complete the inner part of the funnel-shaped sheath of the vessels. (See the woodcut No. 2, x.) It is supported there by the cribriform fascia.