192 LIGAMENTS OF THE HIP-JOINT. and other extremity, by which it is fixed into the fossa or pit upon tire inner surface of the head of the femur, it is round. The cotyloid ligament is a triangular-shaped band of fibro- cartilaginous fibres, which are arranged in a spiral manner around the osseous margin of the acetabulum, which they serve to deepen ; these assist, by embracing closely the head of the femur, in retaining it more firmly within its socket. The ex- ternal and internal surfaces of the cotyloid ligament are covered by the synovial membrane of the hip-joint. A portion of this ligament may be said to be stretched across the cotyloid notch, and has therefore been named the transverse ligament. The synovial membrane of the hip-joint invests the globular head and greater part of the neck of the thigh-bone, from which it is reflected upon the internal surface of the capsular ligament, and thence over the cotyloid ligament into the acetabulum, fur- nishing at the same time a process which encases the round ligament. A large mass of fatty substance is situated in the notch at the bottom of the acetabulum, between the synovial membrane and the bone ; its probable use is to diminish the friction between the articulating surfaces of the bones forming the hip-joint.*!* The ligamentous structures of the hip-joint receive their principal supply of blood from some small branches of the obtu- rator and internal circumflex arteries, which enter into the articu- lation by passing through the cotyloid notch underneath the transverse ligament. One of these vessels furnishes a delicate twig, which reaches the cancellated structure of the head of the thigh-bone by running along in the centre of the round ligament. Several small filaments of the obturator nerve are distributed to the ligaments and synovial membrane of the hip-joint. The external surface of the capsular ligament of the hip-joint is covered in front by the psoas and iliacus internus muscles,— a large bursa mucosa, which sometimes communicates with the interior of the joint, being interposed ; an abscess may form in this bursa independently of any disease of the articulation, in front of which it is placed. Superiorly the tendon of the rectus and the fleshy fibres of the gluteus minimus muscle cover the joint. Posteriorly are placed the pyriformis, superior gemellus, the reflected portion of the obturator internus, inferior gemellus, the f Formerly this fatty mass was regarded as the gland that secreted the sy- novial fluid which lubricates the joint, and was named the gland of Havers.