103 FASCIA LATA.—CRIBRIFORM FASCIA. The wood-engraving is intended to represent the saphenous aperture of the fascia lata covered by the cribriform fascia, which is extended over it, and adheres very closely to the crescentic margin of that aperture. A. The anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. B. The spinous process, or tuberosity of the os pubis. C. The situation of the symphysis pubis. D. D. The tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen, upon which are seen some curved white lines representing the intercolumnar fibres. E. The linea alba. F. F. The fascia lata of the thigh, divided superiorly into G. the iliac, or external portion; and H. the internal or pubic portion. I. The crest of the os pubis, a. The cribriform fascia adhering to the crescentic margin (b. b. c.) of the saphenous aperture. d. Some of the apertures in the cribriform fascia, which serve for the trans- mission of several of the cutaneous vessels, e. The great femoral vein. /. The internal, or great saphena vein, which empties itself into the common femoral vein, after bending over the edge of the inferior cornu (b. b.) of the sa- phenous aperture, g. g. Poupart’s ligament, which forms at g* the inferior pillar of the external abdominal ring, which is marked h. The fascia cribriformis.—This term is given to that portion of the deep lamella of the superficial fascia of the groin which is stretched over the saphenous opening of the fascia lata, and is traversed at numerous points of its extent by the several arteries, veins, and lymphatic vessels which pass through that opening in their course to join with the deep-seated vessels.']' The fascia cribriformis adheres pretty closely to the margins of the saphenous aperture of the fascia lata ; it is covered exter- nally by the cutaneous vessels and superficial absorbent glands, w7hile its internal surface is in apposition with the anterior part of the funnel-shaped sheath of the vessels, where it is formed by the process from the fascia transversalis. The next stage of the dissection consists in removing the deep lamella of the superficial fascia, together with the sub- cutaneous vessels and glands which rest upon it (see Plate II.) ; or, if it should be preferred, the vessels may be permitted to re- main with some of the glands (as in Plate III.), while the fascia is neatly cut away from the interspaces. When this has been done, t If the area of the saphenous aperture in the fascia lata be estimated at one square inch in extent of surface, then the deep lamella of the superficial fascia of the groin must present in this situation a sieve-like appearance, from the great number of small vessels, besides the saphena major vein, which pass through it. In some of the schools of anatomy it is taught that the cribriform fascia is a part of the fascia lata of the thigh; but this, I be- lieve, is not the most accurate view of the subject.