141 THE TAXIS. Section IV. OF THE EMPLOYMENT OF THE TAXIS FOR THE REDUCTION OF A FEMORAL HERNIA. This operation forms a very important part of the treatment of a strangulated femoral hernia, since, whilst its judicious em- ployment will often prevent a severe operation, and rescue the patient from the most dangerous circumstances, it yet frequently happens, from its misapplication, that so much injury is inflicted upon the tender coats of the inflamed intestine as to frustrate all other attempts to afford relief, however skilfully they may after- wards be administered. The most dangerous error, and which is nevertheless by no means the most unfrequent in its occurrence, is that of mistaking a femoral hernia for an inguinal hernia ; which not only involves a failure in obtaining the end sought for—the reduction of the intestine—but also must expose the patient to the dangers attendant upon contusion and even laceration of the swollen tunics of the strangulated portion of intestine.^ The patient should be placed upon his back, the shoulders and head elevated, and the thigh of the affected side flexed upon the abdomen, with the knee rotated inwards, in order that the crural arch shall be rendered as perfectly free as possible from all tension communicated to it either from the fascia lata or from the abdominal muscles. Sometimes additional benefit is ob- tained by ordering the opposite limb to be flexed and rotated in- wards, in a similar manner, at the same time. During the employ- ment of the taxis it is also useful to keep the patient engaged in conversation, which greatly tends to diminish the resistance of the muscular parietes of the abdomen. The surgeon then grasps the hernial tumour with the fingers of the right hand, and, if it be large, and have risen so much upwards as to have been tilted over the falciform process of the fascia lata, and upon the surface of the t See Sir Charles Bell’s Operative Surgery, vol. i. Plate VII. fig.f.; in which a representation is made of the injury which the coats of the bowel may receive from being too rudely pressed against the stricture : also the Medical Gazette, vol. xiii. p. 926, in which the hernial sac, with its con- tents, had been reduced by the taxis, but the strangulation still continued, and produced the death of the patient.