113 THE CRURAL RING. The crural ring.'[■—AVhen the finger is introduced into the crural canal so as to reach its superior extremity, or the opening by which it leads into the cavity of the abdomen, it will be easy to demonstrate the structures which bound what is termed the crural ring. The thin and sharp lunated border of Gim- bernat’s ligament is situated towards the mesial line; the pos- terior edge of Poupart’s ligament lies in front, the femoral vein is external, and the ileo-pectineal line of the os pubis, covered by its ligament, behind. (See the woodcut No. 2, d, m, n, and v.) The figure of the crural ring is oval, its long diameter being directed transversely, and, in the healthy state of the parts, about half an inch, or a little more, in extent. The crural ring is rather larger in women than in men, which circumstance may be considered in some degree sufficient to explain the more frequent occurrence of femoral hernia in the female sex.;j; In the male subject, the spermatic cord, as it lies within the inguinal canal, is situated close above the anterior margin of the crural ring; a fact which should always be borne in mind while operating for strangulated femoral hernia, since (as some very eminent authorities direct us to divide the stricture di- rectly upwards) if the incision be not very limited the sper- matic artery may be wounded.^ In the female, the round ligament of the uterus bears the same relation to the crural ring, (and consequently to the neck of the hernial sac,) as the spermatic cord does in the male, but it is not of the same importance. The internal, or deep epigastric artery, as it ascends from its origin from the external iliac artery towards the region of the umbilicus, runs obliquely along the superior and external angle of the crural ring, and must be exposed to imminent risk of being wounded if the edge of the bistoury be carried too freely upwards and outwards while enlarging the ring in the operation. When the obturator artery is given off from the epigastric, t Femoral ring,—lacuna pro vasis cruralibus interna,—l’ouverture supe- rieure du canal crural. (See the woodcut No. 2, at page 87, fig. x. and also the woodcut No. 3, at page 89, fig. i.) t Vide Observations on Crural Hernia. By Alexander Monro, junior, M.D. 8vo. Edinburgh, 1803, page 52. § Scarpa on Hernia, translated by Wishart, p. 262 ; and Arnaud, Mem. de Chirurgie, tom. i. p. 758. I