no THE FALCIFORM PROCESS minutely, and proposed to call it the falciform process of the fascia lata; which denomination is now very generally adopted in the schools.| The margin of the saphenous opening is naturally not so dis- tinctly and clearly defined as it is represented in the drawing which has been made of the dissection (see Plate II. figs. I, 2,), for at this point the iliac portion of the fascia lata is doubled slightly upon itself, so as to become intimately adherent to, if not con- tinuous with, the funnel-shaped sheath of the great vessels ; the removal of the cribriform fascia has also contributed, in a great degree, to give the sharpness of outline that is figured in the plate. It is in a great measure owing to the connexion that exists between the margin of the saphenous opening, and the sheath of the vessels, that the fundus of the sac of a complete femoral hernia is usually prevented from descending any further down- wards upon the thigh, but is rather turned, or tilted forwards and upwards, so as to rest upon the falciform process and the lower part of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. EXPLANATION OF PLATE III. This plate represents the anatomy of the saphenous opening of the fascia lata in the male subject. The superficial fascia has been removed, and only the superficial vessels and ab- sorbent glands permitted to remain upon the fascia lata. a. The anterior superior spinous process of the ilium upon the right side: b. The spine or tuberosity of the os pubis. c. The external, or iliac portion of the fascia lata of the thigh. d. The internal, or pubic portion of the fascia lata. e. The tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. f. f. Poupart’s ligament. g. The inferior margin of the saphenous opening, which, after passing underneath the great saphena vein, terminates at h. the inferior cornu of the aperture. i. The superior cornu, or falciform process, which is seen very distinctly in this drawing to be attached to the pubic portion t Vide Observations on the Structure of the Parts concerned in Crural Hernia. By Allan Burns. With two plates, illustrating the description. 1 vol. Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ. July 1806, p. 274.