POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 185 some instances appear to originate from disease in some of the lymphatic glands which lie in contact with the sheath of the ves- sels. Upon other occasions they have been found to have taken their origin from the cancellated structure of the spongy heads of the bones forming the articulation of the knee-joint. Some of these tumours may present the appearance of osteo-sarcoma, inasmuch as there are sometimes numerous spiculse deposited Avithin their substance. These tumours are at the first deep- seated, being situated between the great vessels and the bones which form the knee-joint, so that they cannot be extirpated, except by amputation of the thigh ; which, however, should not be had recourse to if the inguinal glands be diseased. Sir Charles Bell met with a case in which a large tumour had formed in the substance of the posterior tibial nerve, after a blow upon the back part of the thigh ; the patient died, ex- hausted by the continual sufferings which he had endured for two years.j' Popliteal aneurism. —Aneurism of the popliteal artery is, perhaps, of more frequent occurrence than that of any other artery in the body, the aorta being excepted. In the greater number of instances it would seem most probable that the affection is produced in consequence of the coats of the artery, which have lost their natural appearance and elasticity from disease, giving way under the influence of some violent strain, or sudden motion of the knee-joint, behind which it is so closely applied; and hence it is that we find that the disease in question has been most frequently observed in persons who are in the constant habit of making long-continued and violent exer- tions of the muscles of the lower extremities, such as grooms, coachmen, porters, troopers, and others.^ In some few in- stances, aneurism of the popliteal artery has been produced by wounds of the coats of this vessel from the point of a sword; ^ or by injury from a musket-ball, as it crossed the region of the ham. || Sir Charles Bell relates a case in which it was caused t Bell’s Oper. Surg. vol. ii.p. 232. t For cases of this kind seethe Med. Chir. Trans, vol. viii. p. 492 ; and vol.ix. p. 411: also Transactions of a Society for the Improvement of Me- dical and Chirurgical Knowledge; London, 1793 ; vol. i. p. 142. § Vide Principles of Surgery. By John Bell, vol. i. p.328. || First Lines of the Practice of Surgery; 6th edit. p. 155.