137 DIAGNOSIS OF FEMORAL HERNIA. tlie impulse which ensue upon the patient coughing, or making any similar exertion—by its disappearance, frequently with a distinct gurgle, under pressure — by the possibility (after this has been effected) of insinuating the tip of the finger into the lower part of the crural canal, which now appears empty from the reduction of the contents of the sac — and by the quick reap- pearance of the swelling as before, as soon as the pressure has been remitted, and the patient coughs or makes any exertion. Too much attention cannot be paid to the precise situation which the neck of the sac of a femoral hernia occupies ; it is under Poupart’s ligament, placed between the tuberosity or spine of the os pubis on the one hand, and the point where the great femoral artery may be felt pulsating on the other. This is by far the most important point to be determined in establishing the diagnosis in difficult and obscure cases of femoral hernise. Femoral hernia, when large, has been mistaken for inguinal her- nia ; but this mistake is not very likely to occur if attention be paid to the preceding remarks, as the neck of an inguinal hernia is seated above Poupart’s ligament, and in femoral hernia the external abdominal ring will be found free, so as to admit the extremity of the finger. Cases may, however, be met with, in which inguinal and femoral hernise occur together, accom- panied by other circumstances which render the diagnosis exceed- ingly difficult, and only to be effected by a nice discrimination of the characteristic features of each.j- (See Plate VI.) The diagnosis of a femoral hernia, from an enlargement of one of the superficial glands of the groin is not always as easy as might be supposed, although it may be of paramount import- ance to the safety of the patient that the diagnosis should be early and clearly established.' Of all the other affections which have their seat in the region of the groin, none are so likely to complicate the diagnosis of a femoral hernia, and render it difficult and obscure, as an enlargement of one of the super- ficial inguinal glands which lie over or within the crural canal. Indeed, many cases have occurred in which it was impossible to decide, without an operation, whether the tumour present in the groin was really only an enlarged absorbent gland, or a strangu- f For a case of femoral hernia in a man rendered obscure by an inguinal hernia, and the patient lost by the unimpressive character of the symptoms, see the Surgical Observations by Sir Charles Bell, Part II. pp. 187—9.