180 BRANCHES OF THE POPLITEAL ARTERY. others to the flexor muscles as they are placed on each side of the upper part of its course through the ham. They are some- times named the rami musculares superiores. 3. llamus articularis medius vel azygos.—This is a very small branch, which arises from the anterior surface of the popli- teal artery near the centre of the back part of the knee-joint; it pierces the fibres of the posterior ligament, and is distributed to the crucial ligaments and synovial membrane of that articulation. 4. Ramus articularis inferior interims arises from the pop- liteal artery low down in the cavity of the ham, and, after pass- ing between the internal head of the gastrocnemius and the pop- liteus muscle, takes its course inwards and forwards between the internal tuberosity of the tibia and the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, where it is also covered by the tendons of the semi-membranosus, semi-tendinosus, and gracilis muscles. Its branches freely anastomose, upon the front and lateral surface of the knee-joint, with the articular arteries of the opposite side, and with the branches of the superior internal articular artery. 5. Ramus articularis inferior externus takes its origin from the outer side of the popliteal artery immediately below the flexure of the knee-joint; it then inclines obliquely downwards and outwards, and, passing underneath the plantaris and external head of the gastrocnemius, as also the external lateral ligaments of the knee-joint, divides into numerous small branches, which inosculate freely with the vascular plexus which is formed by the branches of the other articular arteries upon the sides and front of the knee. 6. Rami surales vel musculares inferiores.—The popliteal artery, after giving off the articular arteries, supplies several large branches, on each side, to the muscles of the calf of the leg; viz. the popliteus, plantaris, soleus, and gastrocnemius, amongst the fibres of which they descend for a considerable dis- tance below the knee. These arteries usually require to be secured with the ligature after amputations of the leg below the knee, particularly when the circular method is that which has been employed. Varieties of the popliteal artery.—Few arteries are less lia- ble to variation in their size and course than the popliteal artery: nevertheless, instances are occasionally met with, in which the division of the principal trunk takes place much higher up in the popliteal region than is usual; so that the