APPEARANCES AFTER DEATH. 152 rather of a sero-purulent fluid than of a pure scrosity. The convolutions of the intestines around the strangulated portion are commonly adherent to one another by coagulablc lymph which is poured out upon their peritonseal surface. The portion of the intestinal tube which intervenes between the stomach and the strangulated part, is greatly distended with air and fsecal matter, and also violently inflamed; while that which is situated beyond the stricture is comparatively empty, and retains its natural appearance. The piece of the bowel which is included within the grasp of the stricture is of a reddish-brown or deep purple tint; sometimes it is even black; and, in the more advanced stages, frequently of a grey slate, or greenish hue.'f Sometimes there are evident spots of mortification present here and there, and the whole of it may be so soft and pulpy as to break down readily under the simple pressure of the finger. Occasionally the intestine will be found to have given way di- rectly opposite the stricture, and the faeces to have been extra- vasated into the abdomen. In those instances in which death ensues, notwithstanding that the stricture upon the intestine has been removed by an ope- ration, the morbid appearances are much the same as in the pre- ceding case, though they may be, perhaps, somewhat less in- tense in degree. The portion of the bowel which has been the subject of the strangulation is, however, always readily distin- guishable from all the rest of the alimentary canal by the greater depth of its colour, which has been frequently known to persist as long as fifteen or twenty days from the time at which the strangulation was removed by the division of the stricture. The peritonaeum at the seat of stricture is usually found puckered and drawn into folds, which, adhering to one another by their opposite surfaces, close the orifice of the hernial sac, the lower part of which in some instances becomes distended with a serous fluid, so as to resemble a simple cyst.j q Vide a Paper by the Author, on the Symptoms of Strangulated Intestine, in the London Med. Gaz. p. 507-8; December 1837. J Vide a Clinical Lecture by Professor Cooper, in the London Medical Gazette for the 11th of May 1839, p. 253.