196 DISLOCATION INTO THE 1SCIIIATIC NOTCH. the thigh, while extension is made by means of another band fixed upon the thigh just above the knee, which should be bent; the dislocated limb is then to be slowly and steadily drawn obliquely downwards across the lower third of the oppo- site thigh, and, when the head of the bone has been in this manner brought down as far as the edge of the acetabulum, it may be raised a little by the surgeon placing his hand under- neath the upper part of the thigh, so as to lift it up, as it were, from the ilium, which must at the same time be de- pressed, and thus facilitate its return into the cotyloid cavity, j- 2. The dislocation backwards and upwards into the great ischiatic notch. — This accident occurs when a person falls violently upon his side, with the thigh much bent forwards, and at the same time rotated inwards. It may also happen consecutively during attempts to reduce the dislocations upon the dorsum ilii, or upon the thyroid foramen, if sufficient at- tention be not paid to the direction of the extending force which is employed.;): The symptoms of this dislocation are, the thigh being very slightly bent, and the knee turned inwards, but not so much so as in the dislocation upon the dorsum ilii. The prominence of the hip is lost, because the trochanter major is more deeply seated ; it is, also, placed further backwards than is natural. The groin appears flattened, at the same time that the buttock appears somewhat fuller than usual. The toe rests against the ball of the great toe of the opposite side. When the patient stands erect, the toes, but not the heel, touch the ground, and the wdiole limb is slightly inverted ; nor can rotation out- wards be performed, though the thigh may be flexed, and ro- tated inwards. In this dislocation the capsular and round ligaments are lacerated, as well as the tendons of the external rotator muscles, which are inserted into the trochanteric fossa ; and the fibres of the pectineus and adductor brevis muscles are placed upon the stretch. The head of the femur rests upon the inferior edge of the pyriformis muscle, under cover of the lower edge of the t For a delineation of the plan to be pursued in the reduction of this dis- location, see plate viii. fig. 1, in Sir Astley Cooper’s work on Disloca- tions. J Op. citat. p. 59.