183 ABSCESS IN THE IIAM. e. The internal head of the gastrocnemius. f. The external head of the same muscle. g. The internal condyle of the femur. -f- The posterior flat surface of the lower part of the femur. h. The great sciatic nerve, before it divides into its two prin- cipal branches, i. the peroneal nerve, and /c.the posterior tibial nerve. l. The popliteal vein, which receives the posterior saphena vein (n), which joins with it by dipping between the heads of the gastrocnemius muscle. m. The popliteal artery, which here lies upon the posterior flat surface of the inferior third of the femur (-f). n. The posterior saphena vein. o. The integuments of the back part of the thigh. p. The integuments of the calf of the leg. 1. The superior external articular artery. 2. The superior internal articular artery. 3. The nervus communicans tibialis. 4. The continuation of the posterior tibial nerve. 5. The nervus communicans fibularis. OF SOME OF THE DISEASES WHICH OCCUR IN THE POP- LITEAL REGION. Abscess in the ham.—In tlie early stages of this disease it is not always possible to determine with certainty what may be the cause of the symptoms ; but, when matter has formed, its pre- sence will be indicated by the swollen state of the integuments, which are also more red and hot than is natural. This in- flammatory swelling of the integuments and subcutaneous layer is circumscribed, and, at the same time, pits upon pressure. The patient suffers much from pain in the part, which obliges him to keep the knee in the bent position to obtain any relief. The sense of fluctuation is frequently very obscure, on account of the contents of the abscess being so firmly bound down by the fascia lata. The history of the case,—-joined with the unnatural increase of heat and redness of the part,—the febrile excitement, —and the absence of the characteristic pulsation, are sufficient to distinguish the case from one of aneurism of the popliteal artery. The abscess should be opened early, and very freely; and the limb must be placed in the straight position as soon as the patient can bear it, in order to prevent the tendency to perman-