WORKS PRINTED for TAYLOR and WALTON, BOOKSELLERS AND PUBLISHERS TO UNIVERSITY COLLEGE UPPER GOWER STREET. ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY for the USE OF STU- DENTS. By Jones Quain, M.D. Fourth Edition, revised and enlarged. Illustrated by 140 Engravings on Wood, and Four Steel Plates. One thick volume 8vo. 1l. 2s. cloth, lettered. “Among the many anatomical works with which British Medical Literature abounds at the present day, the ‘ Elements’ of Dr. Quain alone contain an ample and judicious combination of general, descriptive, and surgical anatomy. This has contributed to render his book a favourite with students. The de- scriptive portion of the volume is not so prolix as to create distaste in the beginner, and yet it affords abundant information which may be studied even by the most advanced members of the profession, while the arrangement of the subject leads the student from the smooth to the rough parts of the art, in a manner which is at once pleasing and profitable.”—Lancet, Feb. 2, 1833. FRACTURES OF THE EXTREMITIES. Exhibited in Twenty Plates, showing the Causes of Displacement. With an Explanation of the Appearances and Mode of Treatment. By G. W. Hinb, M.R.C.S. formerly House-Surgeon to the Middlesex Hospital, and late Curator of the Museum of Anatomy in University College, London. Second Edition, cor- rected, with Woodcuts, showing the Appearances and Method of Bandaging. One vol. folio, \l. 4s. cloth. “ This volume forms a very splendid book, the result of much labour, and is calculated to answer every purpose that the practitioner can desire in a work of this kind.”—Lancet. THE SURGEON’S PRACTICAL GUIDE IN DRESSING, and in the Methodic Application of Bandages. By Thomas Cutler, M.D. late Staff-Surgeon in the Belgian Army. Illustrated by numerous Engravings on Wood. Second Edition, enlarged and revised ; into which is incorporated the Improved System of Bandaging practised by M. Mayor, Principal Surgeon to the Hospital of Lausanne. Foolscap 8vo. 6s. 6d. cloth. “ The descriptions are perspicuous and succinct, and the cuts are admirably adapted to illustrate the text. It is a work that must prove useful not only to the student, but to the general practitioner.”—Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, Oct. 1835. PRINCIPLES OF OPHTHALMIC SURGERY; being an In- troduction to a Knowledge of the Structure, Functions, and Diseases of the Eye ; embracing New Views of the Physiology of the Organ of Vision. By John Walker, Assistant-Surgeon to the Manchester Eye Institution. Fools- cap 8vo. 5s. 6d. cloth. “ An exceedingly concise and comprehensive little volume. It takes in all the chief facts relating to the structure and functions of the eye, as well as every- thing really valuable connected with the treatment of eye disease.”—London Medical Gazette. Loudon: Printed by 1 Bentley, Bangor House, Shoe Lane.