DISSECTION OF THE .174 others, leaving between them several small openings, by which some filaments of the middle posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh (a branch from the smaller sciatic nerve) emerge, to ramify in the integuments of the ham. When the fascia lata has been examined, it is to be dissected off from the muscles, and reflected in the same manner as the in- teguments ; in doing which the branches of the middle posterior cutaneous nerve may, by a little care, be preserved. This nerve descends in the mesial line close underneath the fascia lata, and may be traced for a considerable distance upon the calf of the leg in company with the posterior saphena vein, which should also be preserved, where it ascends between the fascia of the leg and the belly of the gastrocnemius muscle, to join with the popliteal vein, by dipping deeply down into the ham between the two heads of that muscle. (Plate VIII. fig. n.) The fascia lata having been reflected, the several muscles which bound the popliteal region on each side are exposed to view: on the inner side are seen the semi-tendinosus (fig. Z>), semi-membranosus (fig. c), and gracilis (fig. d) muscles, toge- ther with the internal head of the gastrocnemius (fig. e) ; on the outer side are seen the two portions of the biceps flexor muscle where they unite to join with the common tendon (fig. a) by which they are attached to the head of the fibula, and a little lower down, and inclosed by it, is the external head of the gastrocnemius muscle (fig. f). The fleshy and tendin- ous fibres of each of these muscles should, in the next place, be neatly displayed by removing the thin fascia by which they are covered, preserving, at the same time, the small vessels and nerves which supply them. The large quantity of adipose substance which occupies the interspace between the muscles of the ham, should now be cautiously removed, in order to exhibit the great sciatic nerve, which ordinarily divides, near the superior angle of the popliteal region, into its two principal branches, the posterior tibial and peronseal nerves (figs, h, k) ; from both of which numerous fila- ments proceed to be distributed to the integuments of the leg and foot, and to the muscles of the calf of the leg. Two of the cutaneous branches have received names, one of them being denominated nervus communicans tibialis; this nerve will be found lying alongside of the posterior saphena vein deeply in the