160 THE FEMORAL ARTERY. femoral artery descends almost vertically to the junction of the middle with the lower third of the thigh, where it passes through a tendinous aperture in the triceps muscle, to reach the popliteal region. The course of the femoral artery may be in- dicated by a line extended from the middle of the space between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and the sym- physis pubis, to the centre of the popliteal region. Relations. —The femoral artery lies very superficially in the first part of its course, as it is only covered by the common integuments, some lymphatic glands, and the fascia lata ; but in the middle third of the thigh it is situated more deeply, and is additionally concealed by the sartorius muscle, and the strong tendinous apo- neurosis which is stretched across the vessels from the vastus in- ternus to the adductor longus and magnus muscles. (See Plate VII. fig. 6.) Posteriorly the femoral artery at first rests upon the inner edge of the psoas muscle, which separates it from the hori- zontal branch of the os pubis, and the fibrous capsule of the hip- joint : as the muscle soon sinks deeper to be inserted into the tro- chanter minor, the artery is then supported upon some loose cel- lular tissue, in which are situated the profunda artery and vein ; it afterwards rests upon the tendinous insertion of the adductor lon- gus muscle, and near its termination upon the conjoined tendons of that muscle and the adductor magnus. Near the crural arch the femoral vein is placed upon the pubal side of the artery, and lies upon the same plane with it; but, as they descend together, the vein gradually inclines backwards, so as to become placed a little behind the artery, which position it generally retains throughout the remainder of their course to the popliteal region. Externally the femoral artery is successively in relation with the psoas magnus, the inner edge of the sartorius, and the vastus interims muscles. The trunk of the anterior crural nerve is at first separated from the artery by the sheath of the vessels, and the external fibres of the psoas muscle ; but, towards the termination of the superior third of the thigh, one of its principal branches (the internal saphenous nerve) enters into the sheath of the vessels, and lies upon the outer edge of the artery, as far as to the point where the latter passes through the triceps muscle to reach the cavity of the ham ; there the nerve separates from the artery, and soon becoming superficial, pierces the fascia lata, just below the inner side of the knee, and passes