117 THE CRURAL RING. of the crural canal is to be attributed to the influence which the movements of the lower extremity arc capable of exercising over them, through the medium of the iliac portion of the fascia lata, which is connected to the inferior border of Poupart’s ligament, between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the tuberosity of the os pubis ; and of the falciform process or superior cornu of the saphenous opening attached to the pubic portion of the same membrane, close to the base of the latter process of bone. (See Plate II. figs. 2 and 3, and Plate III. fig. jf. i.) When the thigh is extended and rotated outwards, the iliac portion of the fascia lata drags downwards the crural arch, and thus tends to constrict the dimensions of the crural canal and diminish the magnitude of its superior and inferior apertures; but when the limb has been placed in the opposite position, it has no longer any such influence. The relaxed con- dition of the fibres of the psoas and iliacus muscles, when the thigh is bent upon the abdomen and rotated inwards, must also have some share in the production of these changes in the state of the tendinous structures surrounding the canal. From the foregoing examination it will be perceived that this must be the most favourable position in which we can place the limb when about to attempt the reduction of a strangulated femoral hernia by the taxis, before an operation is considered absolutely necessary ; or, in the performance of the latter, when endeavouring (after division of the stricture) to replace the pro- truded viscera.*}* t If the blade of the scalpel be introduced by the saphenous opening, passed up the crural canal, and thrust through the peritonaeum, (which naturally forms a sort of pouch or depression opposite the crural ring,) the cavity of the abdomen may be opened, and a piece of the small intestine drawn down through the canal without much difficulty ; so that several of the peculiarities of a femoral hernia may thus be more aptly illustrated by this than by any other proceeding. The fold of the small intestine which has been thus drawn out of the cavity of the abdomen will be seen, when it is artificially distended, to project forwards, and to be tilted upwards over the edge of the superior cornu of the saphenous opening, so that its greater convexity actually rests upon the falciform process of the iliac portion of the fascia lata and the lower part of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, and consequently over the neck of the tumour, with which it is united at an acute angle. Hence it follows, for the safe and successful employment of the taxis in cases of strangulated complete femoral hernia, that the fundus of the tumour should be first brought down from its position upon the tendon of the external