DISLOCATIONS OF THE IIIP-JOINT. 198 tendon oftlie obturator externus, and the quadratus femoris mus- cles. On the inner side are situated the fleshy portions of the obturator externus and the pectincus muscles. The bony margin of the hip-joint is sometimes fractured in consequence of severe falls upon the hip ; an accident which may give rise to symptoms resembling, in many respects, those of a fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, for which injury it might easily be mistaken. When it is recollected that the three bones which form the os innominatum are united with each other (in the adult) in the acetabulum, an explanation is at once perceived of the stellated appearance which fractures of the pelvis, when they involve the acetabulum, commonly present; this lesion being generally pro- duced by heavy falls upon the trochanter major, by which the head of the femur is driven with great violence against the acetabulum. Section I. DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. A dislocation of the hip-joint is an accident Avhich is much more rarely met with in practice than fractures of the neck or upper part of the thigh-bone. The head of the femur may be dislocated from the cavity of the acetabulum in four different di- rections, which may be stated in the following order, which is also that of the relative frequency of their occurrence : j- viz. first, The dislocation of the head of the bone upwards and outwards, upon the dorsum of the ilium; secondly, Backwards, into the great ischiatic notch ; thirdly, Downwards, forwards, and inwards, into the foramen ovale; and fourthly, Upwards and inwards, upon the horizontal branch of the os pubis.j To these some other surgeons have added the dislocation of the head of the femur, downwards and backwards, upon the tuberosity of the ischium;^ t The French writers consider the dislocations of the hip-joint to take place in a different order of frequency to that which is stated in the text; viz, 1. upon the dorsum ilii; 2. on the thyroid foramen : 3. on the pubis; and 4. into the ischiatic notch. Vide Diet, de Medecine, Paris, 1825, tom. xiii. art. Luxa- tion, par M. Marjolin. t Sir Astley Cooper mentions, that, according to his observations on the subject of dislocations of the hip-joint, the proportion of cases in twenty would be as follows : twelve on the dorsum ilii; five into the ischiatic notch ; two in the foramen ovale ; and one on the pubes.—See Sir Astley Cooper’s work on Dislocations, p. 89. § Vide the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions of London, vol. xx. p. 117; and the London Medical Gazette, vol. x. p. 19. o