DIVISIONS OF THE FASCIA LATA. 106 lata investing tliis part of tlic tliigli completely exposed to view. (See Plates II. and III.) The fascia lata encases the whole of the thigh from the knee to the pelvis and Poupart’s ligament, sending off from its in- ternal surface numerous processes, which serve to separate the muscles of the thigh from one another, and to maintain them in their oblique position during their various actions. Inferiorly, the fascia lata is attached to the bony prominences of the knee- joint, below which it is continuous with the fascia of the leg ; posteriorly, the fascia lata is attached to the linea aspera of the femur by a very strong and thick process, which separates the vastus externus from the biceps flexor and adductor magnus muscles ; superiorly, it is fixed into the outer labium of the crista of the ilium, the sacro-sciatic ligaments, the tuberosity and ramus of the ischium, the ramus of the pubis, as also into the symphysis and crest of the same bone. At the point where the internal saphena vein terminates in the great femoral vein (which is about one inch and a half below the crural arch), the fascia lata, which, covering the front of the thigh, had hitherto presented an uninterrupted and uni- form surface, divides into two portions ; one of these ascends in front of the sartorius, rectus, psoas, and iliacus muscles, and the great trunks of the femoral artery and vein, to become attached to the lower edge of Poupart’s ligament, in the space between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the base of the tuberosity of the os pubis. (See Plate II. fig. e ; and Plate III. fig. c.) The other division of the fascia lata ascends upon the gracilis, adductor longus, and pectineus mus- cles, to be fixed into the crest and ileo-pectineal line of the os pubis ; and, after passing behind the femoral vessels, divides at the internal border of the psoas muscle into two lamellae, which serve to inclose it and the iliacus muscle in a sheath; after which the deeper-seated layer is blended with the strong fibrous capsule of the hip-joint. (See Plate II. fig. f.; and Plate III. figs, d, A.) The iliac and pubic portions of the fascia lata.—The divi- sion of the fascia lata, which ascends in front of the sartorius muscle and the femoral vessels, is called the external or iliac portion of the fascia lata ; while that which rests upon the adduc- tor longus and pectineus muscles, and passes behind the femoral