184 DISEASED BURS7E MUCOSvE. ent contraction of the knee-joint, which frequently follows the healing of abscesses in this situation, j' The matter which forms from disease within the pelvis, as in some cases of lumbar abscesses, may find its way down the back part of the thigh in the loose cellular tissue between the flexor muscles, and thus make its appearance externally in the liam.j Disease of the bursae mucosae.—Sometimes the synovial bursae which are connected with the tendons of the flexor muscles of the thigh become diseased, and form tumours in the ham of very various magnitude and consistence. I recollect very well a tu- mour of this nature which was extirpated from the ham of a young woman who was admitted some years ago into the hos- pital of Newcastle-upon-Tyne: the patient appeared to be doing very well for a short time after the operation, when the knee-joint suddenly became affected; which rendered it after- wards necessary to perform amputation of the thigh, which was soon followed by the death of the patient. M. Velpeau mentions his having successfully removed tumours of this na- ture from two persons during his attendance at the hospital of La Pitie.^ Sarcomatous tumours.—Firm and hard tumours of a fibrous, or fleshy structure are occasionally developed in the ham, and in t The following case of abscess of the ham will serve to illustrate the description given above:—William Halliday, aged 57, was admitted into the College Hospital under the care of Mr. Cooper, in November 1835, on account of a painful tumour in the ham. “ On examination there is a deep- seated swelling of the soft parts behind the knee-joint, with an edematous state of the integuments covering the swelling, and which are also of a dusky red colour; the redness disappearing under pressure, but returning as soon as it is removed. The surface of swelling also pits upon pressure with the points of the fingers. An unnatural degree of heat is perceptible when the hand is closely applied over the swelling; at the same time, an obscure sense of fluctuation is to be felt on a close examination of the part with both hands. The disease is of a fortnight’s duration, and has gradually attained to its present state. The patient experiences much pain, is unable to walk, and is obliged, for the sake of the relief which it affords him, to keep the knee bent.” The swelling was laid freely open by a long and deep incision, and about a pint of healthy-looking pus discharged. For similar cases see Anat. Chirurgicale, par M. Velpeau, tom. ii. 582-3. \ Vide Traite Complet d’Anatomie Chirurgicale, par M. Velpeau, 3rd edit. tom. ii. p. 553 ; 8vo. Paris, 1837. $ Vide Op. citat. tom. ii. p. 569, 3rd edit.