COMPLETE FEMORAL HERNIA. 183 k. The saphena major vein, which receives several contributory branches from the integuments covering the inguinal region. l. The superficial epigastric vein, which runs along under the base of the hernial tumour, in its course to join with the great saphena. m. The superficial epigastric arteries, which, in this subject, were two in number. n. The superficial or external pudic artery. o. o. o. o. Several lymphatic glands, which lie upon the fascia lata in the course of the saphena major vein, and which frequently swell, and inflame from irritation, in cases of disease about the leg and foot. • p. Two smaller absorbent glands, lying over Poupart’s liga- ment, which are frequently the seat of venereal buboes, consequent upon chancres situated on the external organs of generation. q. A lymphatic vessel, which ascends alongside of the great saphena vein, and passes through the inguinal glands. r. The middle anterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh. s. The skin and superficial fascia of the groin, dissected off, and folded over the external border of the limb. t. The umbilicus. 1.1. The fascia propria of the femoral hernia, which is formed by the subserous cellular tissue, and the sheath of the ves- sels. It is sometimes extremely similar in its appearance to the omentum, for which it has been mistaken, and so in- duced the surgeon to reduce the sac into the belly, with its contents still strangulated by the neck of the true sac. (See the case at page 150.) 2. 2. The peritonseal membrane which forms the sac of the femoral hernia. It is very thin, and seems almost transparent. 3. A portion of the small intestine contained within the hernial sac, and strangulated ; its colour was of a deep purple. 4. The round ligament of the uterus, held aside by the hook be- tween the points where it emerges from the external abdomi- nal ring, and is inserted into the fat covering the pubes. It is evident, from the drawing, that any attempt to employ the taxis in a complete femoral hernia should be preceded by first withdrawing the hernial tumour from above the aponeu- rosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen, and the falciform process upon which it has been tilted. 5. marks the situation and extent of the first incision made in the operation for placing a ligature upon the common fe- moral artery. 6. indicates the first incision which is made in Sir Astley Cooper's method of performing the operation for tying the external iliac artery.