188 POPLITEAL ANEURISM. hemorrhage ensues, which is repeated from time to time, until the patient sinks under the continued loss of blood, unless the art ot the surgeon, successfully employed, rescues him from the immi- nent danger 'which constantly hovers over him when the disease has attained to this advanced stage. In these protracted cases, the bones which form the knee-joint are frequently deprived of their periosteum, and become carious,—the ligaments diseased,— the popliteal vein obliterated, —and the nerves and muscles greatly altered from their natural appearance and structure—by the constant and increasing pressure of the tumour ; so that the only remedy which can be proposed for the relief of the sufferer is, the speedy removal of the disease by amputation of the thigh, j' Of the operation for the cure of popliteal aneurism.—In former times (previously to the year 1785), it was the practice to lay freely open by an incision the sac of a popliteal aneurism, and, after scooping out its contents, to place a ligature upon the artery immediately above and below the aperture in its coats. Experience had, however, shown that this method was not only attended with considerable difficulty in its performance, but that it was rarely successful; and it was so frequently followed by the death of the patient from secondary hemorrhage, or from the ex- haustion consequent upon the long-continued and profuse dis- charge from the extensive and unhealthy sore produced by the operation, or from mortification of the limb, in consequence of the destruction of the collateral vessels, that many surgeons of the greatest eminence preferred practising amputation of the limb in all such cases.j; Indeed, in a great number of those who recovered from the operation, the knee remained perma- nently bent, so as to render the limb entirely useless, from the cicatrisation of so extensive a wound in the ham. It was from a consideration of these circumstances that the celebrated Hunter was led to examine this subject; an examination which terminated, by a train of the most clear and philosophical rea- soning, in the Introduction of the modern operation for aneu- rism, by which the artery is tied with facility where it is readily t The operation of tying the superficial femoral artery, as is at the present day usually practised, for the cure of the popliteal aneurism, has been described in a preceding part of the work, to which the reader is referred. + Trans, of a Society, vol. i. p. 138.—Potts’ Works, by Earle, 3rd edit, vol. iii. p. 220.