COMPLETE FEMORAL HERNIA. 132 the sac of a complete femoral hernia ; and, therefore, it is erro- neous to attribute generally its ascent to any influence exercised by them upon the tumour. In the greater number of cases of femoral liernise these vessels will be found to pursue their course under the base of the tumour, and are hence seldom divided in the operation, even when the first incisions are made in the same direction as Poupart’s ligament, at right angles to their course. (See Plate VI. figs. /, m, n.) The crural ring is not unfrequently considerably dilated by the protrusion through it of a femoral hernia. The situation of the femoral vein is but little altered, for it lies along the ex- ternal and inferior side of the tumour : the deep epigastric artery runs over and is frequently in pretty close contact with the su- perior and external angle of the neck of the sac. In a complete femoral hernia the semilunar edge of the falciform process of the fascia lata is also pushed upwards and outwards, so as to be con- verted into a well-formed tendinous arch, which, through the medium of its connexion with the pubic portion of the fascia lata, encircles the greater part of the neck of the sac. EXPLANATION OF PLATE VI. This plate represents the situation of the femoral hernia externally, when the integuments and the superficial fascia have been removed by dissection from the front of the thigh. a. The anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. b. The spinous process or tuberosity of the os pubis. c. The anterior border of Poupart’s ligament, where it stretches across between the spine of the ilium and the tuberosity of the os pubis. It will be observed how the ligament is drawn downwards, and the crural arch made tense, by the position of the limb, which was abducted, and rotated out- wards, previously to making the dissection. d. The iliac or external portion of the fascia lata of the thigh, which is attached, superiorly, to the lower edge of Pou- part’s ligament. e. The pubic portion of the fascia lata covering the pectineus and adductor longus muscles. f. points, by a dotted line, to the situation of Gimbemat’s liga- ment, and of the superior extremity of the falciform process of the iliac portion of the fascia lata, where the latter arches * over the neck of the hernial sac. g. The fascia lata covering the rectus muscle. h. The fascia lata covering the sartorius muscle. i. The fascia lata covering the adductor longus muscle.