126 THE SEPTUM CRURALE. ligament obliquely upwards and inwards, at its junction with the posterior edge of Poupart’s ligament; in this step of the operation very great care should be observed that no part of the instrument but its probe-point should project within the cavity of the abdomen. Fig. 2. Shows a piece of the ileum which had been strangulated for three days within the crural canal. The case was one of femoral hernia occurring in the male subject, and was attend- ed with other circumstances which rendered the diagnosis exceedingly difficult. Mr. Quain, being consulted upon the third day, performed the operation, but the patient sank in a day afterwards under an attack of peritonitis, which had com- menced previously. a. The portion of the small intestine which had suffered from constriction within the superior aperture of the crural canal. It did not comprise more than one-half of the entire calibre of the gut; but the acute angle at which the remainder of the intestine was bent, was quite sufficient to prevent the passage of the faeces along the canal. The strangulated portion was very dark-coloured, with shreds of coagulable lymph effused upon its surface; there were small ecchy- moses under the peritonaeal coat, but it had, nevertheless, retained its vitality. b. The upper end of the ileum, which was more inflamed, and greatly distended with faecal matter. c. The lower extremity, which was scarcely altered from its na- tural character and appearance. d. The mesentery. e. The portion of the calibre of the gut (about one-half of the circumference) which had not been compressed into the crural ring. The septum crurale.—The superior orifice of the crural canal (the crural ring) is naturally closed by a layer of condensed cellular membrane, which is sufficiently strong and resistent in most subjects to afford a considerable obstacle to the formation of a femoral hernia ; while, in others, it is very thin and weak. This structure adheres to the tendinous margins of the crural ring, and may be regarded as forming part of the inner layer of the fascia transversalis. It has received from M. Cloquet, who first described it minutely, the appellation of the septum cru- rale.f The superior surface of the septum crurale is a little -J- Vide Recherches sur les Ilernies, par J. Cloquet; 4to. Paris, 1817, p. 74.