POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 186 by the ulceration of the coats of the artery, which was pressed upon by the sharp edge of the inferior fragment of the thigh- bone, which had been broken in its lower third, a little above the condyles.*j* From the close connexion with one another of the popliteal vein and artery, a venous aneurism may be pro- duced in the ham, instances of which have been related by several surgeons.:): The aneurism of the popliteal artery is seldom brought under the notice of the surgeon until it has made considerable pro- gress, since, from the great depth at which the affected vessel lies, and from the yielding nature of the structures which are ad- jacent to it on either side, the swelling must attain a certain magnitude before it forms any tumour externally and attracts the attention of the patient. In the commencement of the disease a small swelling is felt, deeply seated in the ham, when the fingers are pressed forcibly into the hollow between the tendons of the flexor muscles of the knee ; the tumour, when it is grasped between the fingers, throbs violently, and is felt to dilate at each pulsation of the artery at the bend of the groin: the pulsation in the tumour can be arrested at pleasure, by making pressure upon the fe- moral artery in a degree sufficient to interrupt the flow of the current of blood through it. The swelling in the ham conti- nues to increase, sometimes very slowly; at the same time that its pulsations become stronger, and more perceptible to the fin- gers, to which they communicate a thrilling sensation. There is now a feeling of heaviness and numbness in the limb, with frequent cramps and throbbing pains in the part affected, and extending downwards to the leg and foot, in consequence of the pressure Avhicli the tumour begins to exercise upon the large branches of the great sciatic nerve. When the tumour is firmly grasped in the hand, its whole bulk seems to be dilated at each impulse of the heart, and, if sufficient pressure be made upon the artery in the bend of the groin, the size of the tu- mour will be perceived to undergo a very sensible diminution ; but it quickly, though gradually, regains it former bulk as soon as the pressure upon the femoral artery has been removed, and f Engravings of the Arteries, by Charles Bell; royal 8vo. London, 1824 ; 4th edit. p. 53. i Elements de Mddecine Opdrat. par M. Velpeau, tom. i. p. 149.