MUSCLES OF THE POPLITEAL REGION. 177 joint; the expanded tendon of the sartorius muscle conceals its insertion into the tibia. The semi-membranosus arises from the tuberosity of the ischium, between the preceding muscles and the quadratus femoris, and is inserted into the inner and back part of the head of the tibia, where it gives off a process, which is re- flected obliquely upwards and outwards upon the posterior liga- ment of the knee-joint and is finally attached to the external condyle of the femur. The muscle is fleshy in its middle, but tendinous at its extremities. Relations — anteriorly, with the quadratus femoris and adductor magnus muscles, the popliteal artery and vein, the internal articular arteries, and inner con- dyles of the knee-joint; posteriorly, with the biceps and semi- tendinosus muscles and the fascia lata ; internally, with the sartorius and gracilis muscles ; and, exernally, with the great sciatic nerve. This, with the preceding muscle, forms the inner hamstring. The first incisions in the operation of tying the popliteal artery, should be made along the external edge of this muscle. The gastrocnemius arises superiorly by two heads, which are attached to the upper and back part of the condyles of the femur, and to the two diverging lines into which the linea aspera is divided inferiorly ; the fibres of the muscle converge as they de- scend, and become blended with each other at the upper part of the leg, where they form a thick fleshy mass resting upon the soleus muscle, with which they are inserted into the tendo Achillis, which connects them with the under and back part of the os calcis. The internal is rather larger than the external head of the muscle. The structure of the gastrocnemius is fleshy and aponeurotic superiorly, fleshy in the centre, and tendinous inferiorly. Relations—posteriorly, with the skin and fascia of the leg, the communicating branches of the posterior tibial and pe- ronseal nerves, and the posterior saphena vein; anteriorly, with the capsular and synovial ligaments of the knee-joint, (a delicate bursa mucosa usually intervening,) the popliteal vessels and nerves, and the plantaris, soleus, and popliteus muscles. The two heads of the gastrocnemius are included superiorly between the hamstring muscles, the peronseal nerve lying in the groove be- tween the tendon of the biceps and the external head. The plantaris is a very small muscle, which lies between the N