182 LYMPHATIC VESSELS AND GLANDS. and then, after piercing the fibres of the adductor magnus mus- cle, to terminate in one of the contributory branches which unite to form the vena profunda femoris. Lymphatic vessels and glands. — Numerous lymphatic vessels pass through the popliteal region, some of which come from the superficial lymphatics of the back part of the leg and foot, and reach the ham by taking a similar course to the poste- rior saphena vein. The deep-seated lymphatics are those which ascend in company with the three sets of deep-seated veins, which, by their junction with each other, form the popliteal vein. The lymphatic vessels in the ham are very numerous, and pass through four or five absorbent glands, which are placed on different sides of the popliteal vessels, to the coats of which they are intimately coherent. These glands sometimes enlarge, and form solid tumours, which may, by their pressure upon the vessels and nerves, produce painful sensations, with edema of the leg and foot; they may also, from the same circumstance, receive a pulsatile motion from the artery as it lies underneath them, and thus render it difficult to distinguish clearly between a swelling in the popliteal region from this cause, and an aneurismal dilata- tion of the coats of the artery itself. The lymphatics of the popliteal region, after passing through the glands which lie upon the vessels, ascend along with the femoral artery and vein to the glands of the groin ; which circumstance renders it ne- cessary to examine carefully the condition of the glands of the inguinal region and iliac fossa before it is determined to am- putate the thigh for diseases in the ham which may be sus- pected to be of a malignant nature, lest, after the operation has been submitted to, the patient may suffer from a return of the affection nearer to the trunk of the body. EXPLANATION OF PLATE VIII. This plate represents the popliteal region when the dissec- tion of the muscle, and vessels which it contains within its limits, has been completed. a. The biceps flexor cruris muscle, which forms the external boundary of the ham. b. The semi-tendinosus muscle where it rests upon c. the semi-membranosus muscle ; they form the inner ham- string muscles. d. The tendon of the gracilis muscle.