164 THE ANTERIOR CRURAL NERVE. The femoral vein.—The femoral vein is the continuation up- wards of the popliteal vein, and extends from the opening in the triceps adductor muscle to the lower edge of Poupart’s ligament, where it ends in the external iliac vein. At its com- mencement inferiorly the femoral vein is situated behind, and a little to the outer side of the artery; but, in proportion as it ascends towards the groin, it winds round the posterior surface of that vessel, to gain its inner or pubal side ; immediately below Poupart’s ligament the femoral artery and vein lie on the same plane. The femoral vein receives twro large branches at the dis- tance of an inch and a-half below Poupart’s ligament, viz. the profunda and great saphenous veins. The femoral vein also re- ceives numerous other branches in its progress, all of which cor- respond very exactly to the branches which are given off from the artery. In the middle third of the thigh, the femoral vein is sometimes double, and then the artery lies between them ; very frequently there is a smaller vein, which runs along the outer side of the superficial femoral artery, from which smaller branches of communication pass across that vessel to join at various points with the main trunk. When the femoral vein pours out much blood in amputa- tions of the thigh, and the hemorrhage cannot be arrested by milder means, it must be tied in the same manner as an artery, which I have seen done on several occasions, without any bad consequences resulting. The anterior crural nerve.—In addition to the cutaneous branches, described at page 157, the anterior crural nerve di- vides into several others, which are for the most part distri- buted to the vastus externus, rectus, crurteus, and sartorius muscles. Two of the largest of its branches, however, are particularly deserving of notice, on account of their relation to the femoral artery in the middle third of the thigh. (See Plate VII. fig. 7.) The larger of these, nervus saphenus major, enters the sheath of the vessels near the point where the sar- torius crosses over their course, and thence lies close upon the external border of the superficial femoral artery, as far as the opening in the triceps, where it then leaves it, to descend un- derneath the sartorius muscle, to the inner side of the knee- joint, upon which it distributes some of its branches ; the nerve afterwards becomes subcutaneous, and joins the internal saphena