FORMATION OF A FEMORAL HERNIA. 129 CHAPTER IV. Section I. FORMATION AND PROGRESS OF A FEMORAL HERNIA. Femoral Hernia is of much more frequent occurrence in women than in men; yet there is reason for believing that the comparative rarity of this disease in the male sex is by no means so great as was once supposed, and commonly described in the writings of the best authors, towards the close of the last, and in the commencement of the present, centuries.-f* It is extremely probable that this erroneous impression arose in consequence of the existence of the affection in the male sub- ject having been frequently permitted to pass unobserved, on ac- count of the very trifling size which the tumour generally attains in men, when compared with its ordinary magnitude in women.| When a femoral hernia is at first formed, that portion of the peritonaeum which lines the internal surface of the abdominal pa- rietes over the crural ring, and which in the natural condition of the parts presents an obvious depression, corresponding with the lower part of the external inguinal pouch, is protruded before the intestines into the crural canal, and thus .placed within the innermost of the three compartments into which the funnel- shaped sheath of the femoral vessels is subdivided. The peritonaeum, as it thus descends before the hernial pro- trusion, pushes before it the subserous cellular tissue, and the septum crurale, with what cellular and adipose substance there may be present within the crural canal. Incomplete femoral hernia.—So long as the hernial sac is lodged within the crural canal, and does not project through the t See the Practical Observations in Surgery, by Wm. Iley, second edition, p. 151. Also the works of Morgagni, Arnaud, Scarpa, and others. J M. Breschetsays that he has seen more than thirty examples of femoral hernia in the male subject during a few years that he followed the clinical instruction of the late Baron Dupuytren, at the Hotel Dieu of Paris. Thhse surlallernie Femorale, par G. Breschet, p.82. K