105 OF THE FASCIA LATA. The wood-cut represents the saphenous opening of the fascia iata, when it is completely dissected. The cribriform fascia and all the small sub-cuta- neous vessels have been removed, and there only remains the great saphena vein, as it is about to terminate in the trunk of the common femoral vein. A. The anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. B. The spine or tuberosity of the os pubis. C. The situation of the symphysis pubis. _D.D. The tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. E. The linea alba. F. F. The fascia lata of the thigh, which divides supe- riorly into G. the iliac portion, and H. the pubic portion, a. The crescentic or falciform margin of the saphenous opening, terminating inferiorly in b.b., the iuferior cornu; and superiorly in c. the superior cornu, which is attached to the pubic portion of the fascia lata, immediately above the letter H., where it is seen to bend inwards underneath the pubal extremity of Poupart’s ligament: the letter itself is placed upon the anterior wall of the crural canal, which is formed by the iliac portion of the fascia lata. d. The posterior wall of the crural canal, which is formed by the pubic portion of the fascia lata, where it passes upon the pectineus muscle behind the sheath of the vessels, e. The great saphena vein, f The great femoral vein, which receives the preceding vessel, g-g-g. * Poupart’s ligament, which i sinserted at g. * into the tuberosity of the os pubis, and there forms the inferior pillar of the external abdominal ring. h. The external abdominal ring: the letter is placed upon the edge of the superior, or internal pillar of the ring. i. The crista of the os pubis. As the margin of the saphenous opening in the fascia lata is most clearly defined at the point where the great saphena joins with the femoral vein, it will greatly facilitate the neat exposition of the edge of the opening if the removal of the cribriform fascia be commenced at this point, and continued by carefully following, in a gentle curve, the sharp margin of the opening, (as repre- sented in Plate II. figs. /, and 1, 2, 3 ; and in Plate III. figs. g, h, i,) upwards and inwards, towards the base of the tube- rosity of the os pubis. It is advisable, also, in some instances, to use the handle, rather than the edge of the scalpel, to break up the delicate connexions of the cribriform fascia to the cres- centic margin of the saphenous aperture and the sheath of the femoral vessels. Any of the small arteries, which may pierce the fascia lata at other points than the saphenous aperture, may be cut across close to the spot at which they emerge from un- derneath the fascia. When these directions have been pro- perly executed, the cribriform portion of the deep lamella of the superficial fascia will have been entirely removed and the fascia