FRACTURE OF THE NECK OF THE FEMUR. bone.'j' According to Dupuytren, the inversion of the limb must be owing to the peculiar direction of the line of the frac- ture, which must be oblique, and situated in such a manner that the pointed extremity of the inferior fragment is placed behind that of the superior portion. J In all doubtful cases the fracture of the neck of the femur is to be distinguished from the dislocations of the hip-joint by a careful consideration of the distinctive characters of the several displacements to which the head of the thigh-bone is liable, and by contrasting these successively with those which belong to the former accident; thus, it is distinguished from the dis- location downwards and forwards upon the thyroid foramen, bv the shortening or equal length of the limb in the former and its positive elongation in the latter accident. It is also distinguish- ed from the dislocation upwards on the horizontal branch of the os pubis, by the forced and steady abduction of the limb,— the great immobility when we endeavour to rotate it inwards,— together with the evident position of the head of the bone un- derneath Poupart’s ligament, where it forms a hard globular tumour, which obeys all the motions of the limb — symptoms which belong to this accident alone. In the luxation backwards into the ischiatic notch the limb is shortened and inverted, (which it may be also in a case of fracture of the neck of the femur,) yet in the case of the luxation there is a great fixity of the upper part of the limb in its new position, with an impos- sibility of rotating it outwards; neither of which symptoms can co-exist with a fracture of the neck of the femur, in which there is always the greatest latitude and freedom of motion. The same conditions, but in a more marked degree, will amply serve to establish a correct diagnosis between a dislocation of the head of the bone upon the dorsum ilii and a fracture of the neck of the femur. The best plan of treatment which can be pursued of a frac- ture of the neck of the femur, consists, I believe, in placing the limb in the straight position, and retaining it there of a proper length by means of the long splint applied along its outer border : the apparatus should be applied for eight or ten weeks ; t See Tlie Principles of Surgery, by James Syme, F.R.S.E.; 8vo. Edin. 1832; p. 232. t Lemons Orales du Baron Dupuytren, tom. ii. p. 53.