175 POPLITEAL REGION. cleft between the heads of the gastrocnemius muscle. (Plate VIII. fig. 3.) The other, nervus communicans jibularis, (Plate VIII. fig. 5,) is given off from the peronseal nerve, as it is de- scending alongside of the inner edge of the tendon of the bi- ceps muscle, between it and the external head of the gastrocne- mius. (Plate VIII. fig. 4.) These branches converge in their descent, and unite with each other a little below the middle of the calf of the leg; after which the common trunk so formed may be traced, having pierced the fascia in company with the posterior saphena vein, behind the outer ancle, and along the external border of the foot, to the skin covering which, and the three or-four external toes, it distributes numerous branches; one of these is not unfrequently found to join with a branch of the internal saphena, and also with the anterior tibial nerve upon the dorsum of the foot. A little deeper in the cavity of the ham, and somewhat nearer to the mesial line than the posterior tibial nerve, will be found the popliteal vein (fig. /), which is closely connected to the outer cellular coat of the popliteal artery, along the external and pos- terior edge of which it is placed. Sometimes the popliteal vein is double, and then the artery is situated between the two trunks, and is crossed at various points by smaller veins which connect them together ; a circumstance which is worthy of being remembered, as it might otherwise prove a source of embarrass- ment in the operation of placing a ligature upon the popliteal artery. The popliteal artery (fig. m) lies deeply in the centre of the popliteal space, and much closer to the surface of the bone than either the nerve or vein ; in exposing it the knife should not be used too freely on either side, lest the articular branches, which spring from the main trunk at right angles to its course, should be cut across. (See Plate VIII. figs. 1 and 2.) It is also advisable, in this stage of the dissection, that the muscles which bound the popliteal region on each side should be relaxed, so as to admit of being drawn more widely apart, which may be easily done if the lower part of the limb be raised by bending the knee- joint ; by so doing, much more room, and greater freedom to use the knife with safety to the smaller branches of the artery, will be gained, than if the limb were to remain extended as before. These directions having been executed, and all the adi-