o LIEBIG—GREGORY. RESEARCHES ON TnE CHEMISTRY OF FOOH. By Justus Liebig, M.D., Professor of Chemistry in the University of Giessen. Edited from the Author's Manuscript, by William Gregory, M.D., Professor of Chemistry in the Univoi’sity of Edinburgh. 8vo, 5s. 6d. cloth. “ The medical man mil find in these researches a prospect of many and great improvements in practice, whether as regards dietetics or the action of acids, alkahes, and salts on the digestive and respiratory processes; and with respect to both it is to Chemistry he must look for assistance in his efforts to advance. Lastly, the present work contains some most valuable practical applications of the chemical discoveries therein detailed, to an art which immediately concerns the whole of man- kind, namely, the culinary art.”—Editor's Preface. MACLISE. COMPARATIVE OSTEOLOGY. Being Morphological Studies to demonstrate the Archetype Skeleton of Vertebrated Animals. By Joseph Maclise, Member of the Royal College of Surgeons. Illustrated by 54 Plates. Small folio, 21. 12s. 6d. GREGORY. OUTLINES OF CHEMISTRY. For the use of Students. By William Gregory, M.D., Professor of Chemistry in the University of Edinburgh. Complete in one volume, foolscap 8vo, 12s. cloth. Part I.—INORGANIC CHEMISTRY. 5s. cloth. II.—ORGANIC CHEMISTRY. 7s. cloth. “This is beyond comparison the best introduction to Chemistry which has yet appeared. The directions for preparing substances are usuaUy confined to the best method, so that brevity and selectness are combined. The size and the price of this little work, as weU as its intrinsic merits, commend it to every student of Chemistry.”—Lancet. MR. QUAIN’S WORK ON THE ARTERIES. *** The Publishers have much pleasure in announcing that 450 out of the 500 Copies have been subscribed for, and that 400 have been delivered. Gentlemen intending to subscribe for the remaining Copies are requested to favour the Publishers with their names as soon as possible, either direct or through their respective Booksellers. Oct. 1, 1847.