139 DIAGNOSIS OF FEMORAL HERNIA. tlie intestine, that the operation should be performed as though it had been clearly decided that the swelling was actually a hernia ; since the use of the knife is, in a case of this kind, a source of little or no additional danger to the patient, and will frequently prove to be the best and surest means of preventing the repetition of those fatal cases in which patients have been permitted to die, unrelieved from strangulation of the small intestine, under the belief that the swelling in the groin could not be a hernia, j- Varix of the femoral vein.—This case is not of frequent occurrence, but it has been mistaken for a femoral hernia ;(j and under that impression trusses have been applied for its relief, but, as might be expected, without any benefit. The enlargement appears to be seated where the saphena major pours its contents into the great femoral vein, and forms a tumour of an oblong shape, about the size of a walnut, which attended by a physician and an apothecary for ileus, to whom she had not mentioned that she had a tumour in the groin. Another surgeon, who had been consulted upon the case, discovered a swelling in the right groin, which was firm, and did not feel to him like a hernia. Upon examination Sir Astley Cooper found a gland, enlarged to the size of a pullet’s egg, and very moveable; but, upon feeling behind this gland, he could perceive an elastic tumour distinct from the swollen gland. This hernia was reduced by the taxis after ten minutes, when all symptoms of strangulation disap- peared, and the lady quickly recovered.—Cooper on Hernia, Part II. p. 3, 2d edit. A surgeon in considerable practice ordered a poultice to be applied to pro- mote the suppuration of a tumour in the groin, which he supposed to be a venereal bubo ; the poultice was applied for three days, after which the man was sent into Guy’s Hospital, where the operation was immediately per- formed, but the intestine was found mortified.—Op. cit. p. 3. Mr. Law- rence has mentioned in his work a case in which a hospital surgeon mistook a strangulated femoral hernia for a bubo. f See the cases recorded by Mr. Else in the fourth volume of the Medical Observations and Inquiries; Sir A. Cooper’s work, Part II. p. 3, 2d edit.; Lawrence on Ruptures, 6th Edition, p. 493. M. Velpeau mentions a case in which the surgeon passed a ligature around the base of an enlarged gland in the groin, and destroyed his patient’s life. The thread had em- braced a piece of the small intestine in a sac behind the gland.—Velpeau, Mdd. Opdr. tom. ii. pp. 330, 331, 333. § Cases of this kind, which were treated as femoral herniae, will be found in the Gazette Mddicale, Dec. 1836; Petit’s Traitd des Malad. Cbir. tom. ii. p. 299; Sir A. Cooper’s work. Part. II. p. 4, second edition; and the Surgical Observations, by Mr. Macilwain, p. 300.