FEMORAL HERNIA. 147 and an opening cautiously made with the scalpel held horizon- tally. The director, or the probe-pointed bistoury, is then to be introduced into the opening, between the inner surface of the sac and the intestine, and the former laid freely open, more especially in a direction upwards towards its neck. When the contents of the sac have been examined, the stric- ture should be divided, in order to admit of the easy return of the strangulated intestines. For this purpose, the left fore- finger should now be gently introduced between the inner sur- face of the sac and the bowel, and the stricture sought for at the upper and inner angle of the wound. The tip of the finger-nail, should be insinuated underneath the band which forms the stricture, and the blunt extremity of the probe-pointed bistoury (placed flat upon the finger) glided just within the sharp mar- gin of the stricture; after which the edge of the knife is to be turned upwards, and, the handle being raised, the tendinous band which resists the return of the bowel will be easily divided. If a director be used, its point should be very carefully passed underneath the stricture, and the knife carried along its groove, and raised as just mentioned,—but the finger is preferable, for, at the same time that it guides the instrument, it serves to protect the bowel. Generally speaking, a cut of about two or three lines in extent will suffice to remove the stricture.j* There is no fear of wounding any of the vessels which may take their course over the neck of the sac, unless the probe- point of the bistoury be carried much too far within the crural ring.j f Sir Astley Cooper recommends the incision of the neck of the sac to be made upwards and with a slight obliquity inwards, so as to divide the fascia transversalis and the posterior edge of Poupart’s ligament; Pott, Hey, Du- puytren, and Hesselbach, cut upwards. Gimbernat, Langenbeck, Scarpa, Todd, and Lawrence have found the division of the internal edge of the crural ring sufficient to remove the stricture; while Professors Cooper, Liston, Syme, and many others, cut obliquely upwards and inwards. It will be readily ad- mitted, however, that it is not so much the direction of the incision, as its extent, that forms the essential point of practice in this part of the opera- tion; and it is very fortunate that a slight cut of from two to three lines is usually sufficient for the removal of the stricture, by dividing the several parts which have been regarded by these writers as the seat of the stran- gulation, at the same time that it docs not reach any of the vessels which may perchance run over the neck of the sac. J Mr. Guthrie states that he has been made aware of more than one in- L 2