III. fig. t.) ]00 THE SUPERFICIAL ARTERIES The course of this artery lies over the situation of the inter- nal abdominal ring, and frequently crosses the upper part of the inguinal canal ; so that it is occasionally divided in the first incisions of the operation for strangulated inguinal hernia, and sometimes, also, though not often, in that for the relief of femoral hernia. 2. Arteria pudenda externa, superior et inferior.—These arteries are usually two in number, though occasionally there may be three, or even more, which pursue the same course. The first of these runs superficially; for, escaping through the lower part of the saphenous opening of the fascia lata, it takes its course inwards and upwards towards the spine of the os pubis, where it crosses over the spermatic cord in the male sub- ject, and the round ligament of the uterus in the female, as these structures issue from the external abdominal ring, or lower aperture of the inguinal canal. (See Plates I. and III. figs. 6 and r.) It is distributed by numerous branches to the integuments and dartos of the scrotum. The inferior branch also passes out from the saphenous open- ing, where it will generally be found between the saphena and femoral veins, as it lies in the angle which is formed by the junction of these veins with one another. (See Plate III. fig. r.) It soon, however, dips downwards and gets underneath the pubic portion of the fascia lata, where it rests upon the fibres of the pectineus and adductor longus muscles, until it reaches near to the angle of the os pubis, a little below which it again pierces the fascia lata ; and, after mounting over the spermatic cord, a little lower down than the preceding branch, it divides into several ramusculi for the supply of the integuments of the penis and scrotum in the male, and the structures of the mons Veneris and labia majora in the female. 3. Arteria circumflexa ilii externa, vel superficialis.—This is the smallest of these branches of the common femoral artery; it generally pierces the iliac portion of the fascia lata at some distance from the external margin of the saphenous opening, when it divides into several branches which are distributed to the integuments covering the crest of the ilium, where it ana- stomoses freely with the internal circumflex ilii, external circum- flex and gluteal arteries. This artery sometimes springs from a common trunk with the superficial epigastric artery. (See Plate