169 LIGATURE OF THE EXTERNAL ILIAC. much more successful operation in arresting secondary hemor- rhages from branches of the femoral, than that of tying the trunk of the common femoral between the lower edge of Poupart’s li- gament and the origin of the profunda. Mr. Hadwen mentions eight cases in which a ligature was applied to the common fe- moral artery, in six of which consecutive hemorrhage ensued, in four the external iliac artery was tied, and two died; leaving only two in which the ligature separated favourably.-f- The ligature of the external iliac artery.—There are two methods practised of placing a ligature upon the external iliac artery; the first of these was employed by Mr. Abernethy, and the second was afterwards introduced by Sir Astley Cooper, and is now much more generally employed than the former. Mr Abernethy's method.—The patient being placed in the recumbent posture upon the table, or a firm bed, an incision of three or four inches in length is made obliquely through the integuments, in the course of the external iliac vessels. The superior extremity of this incision will be situated about twro inches from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and it will terminate inferiorly a little above the ligament of Pou- part. The edges of the wound being held apart, the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle is exposed to view, and must be divided to the same extent as the external incision. In the next place, the finger is to be introduced underneath the lower edge of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, so as to separate them from the fascia transversalis and the peritonaeum, and to protect the latter while the muscular fibres are divided with the probe-pointed bistoury. An opening having been care- fully made into the fascia transversalis, the finger is then passed into the bottom of the wound, and the pulsations of the artery sought for as it lies upon the inner edge of the psoas muscle. The sheath of the vessels is, in the next place, to be opened, and the ligature passed round the artery, taking care to avoid injuring the vein, which is situated upon its inner edge. This plan of performing the operation is not so generally adopted as that which has been since recommended by Sir Astley Cooper. Sir Astley Cooper's method.—In this operation the first inci- t Vide a Paper entitled “ The History of a Case of Popliteal Aneurism, with Observations,” by Samuel Iladwen, House Surgeon to the Lincoln Hos- pital, in the Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxi.p. 318.