THE FEMORAL ARTERY. 159 e. The tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. The external abdominal ring. g. The sartorius muscle, the lower part of which has been turned slightly aside, in order to display the superficial fe- moral artery in the middle third of the thigh. h. The adductor longus muscle. i. The pectineus muscle. k. The adductor brevis muscle, which lies behind the preced- ing muscles. L The gracilis muscle. tn. The adductor magnus, which lies hehind the pectineus and two other adductor muscles. n. The rectus muscle. o. The vastus externus muscle. p. The vastus internus muscle; above the letter is seen a branch of the anastomotica magna artery. q. The tepsor vaginae femoris. r. The trochanter major of the thigh-bone. s. The patella. l. The common femoral artery. 2. The superficial femoral artery. The figure is placed upon the vessel, in the situation where the ligature is carried round it in Scarpa’s operation. A small nervous filament frequently passes obliquely over the vessels at this spot. 3. The profunda femoris giving off the external circumflex artery, and then inclining inwards, behind the superficial femoral, and afterwards furnishes the perforating branches. 4. The femoral vein. 5. The superficial femoral artery in the lower part of its course. It was here that Hunter was accustomed to secure the ves- sel, in his celebrated operation for the cure of the popliteal aneurism. The internal, or long saphena nerve, is seen lying upon the superior and external side of the artery. 6. The lower part of the strong tendinous aponeurosis, which, passing from the vastus internus to the adductor longus and magnus muscles, binds down the vessels in the middle third of the thigh. 7. The trunk of the anterior crural nerve, which, a little dis- tance below Poupart’s ligament, divides into a large lash of branches. * The crural ring. The femoral artery is the continuation of the external iliac, which assumes this name as it passes underneath the crural arch midway between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the symphysis pubis. From this point the