APPEARANCES AFTER DEATH. 151 intestine have suffered so much injury from the long duration of the constriction, and the violence of the taxis, that they fall into a state of chronic inflammation, which ends, frequently, after the lapse of several weeks, in the death of the patient. In such a case, the portion of the intestine which had been strangulated may be readily distinguished from the rest of the alimentary canal by the dull iron-grey tint or slate-colour which it presents, and sometimes also by numerous petechial spots which are perceptible upon various points of the surface, being- situated underneath the peritoneeal coat. A truss should be applied before the patient is allowed to get up from bed; for it is a general observation that femoral hernise are much more liable to recur after an operation, than inguinal, and, when this has happened, to become very much larger than before. There is reason to believe that death ensues in some cases of strangulated hernia, although the stricture has been divided, and the intestine safely returned into the belly, from the portion of gut which had been down in the sac still refusing to act: for its muscular coat has suffered so much injury by the long conti- nuance and violence of the strangulation, that it is no longer able to propel the fsecal contents of the intestinal canal; or, in other words, that the part of the bowel which had been included within the stricture is paralyzed, and thus, though freed from all constriction, may, nevertheless, remain a cause of obstruc- tion and death.')' The appearances which are observed after death, when an individual dies from strangulated hernia, unrelieved by any operation.—When the abdomen is opened, the intestines are found inordinately distended, inflamed, and discoloured; and the inflammation of the peritonaeum is not confined solely to that portion of it which invests the alimentary canal, but ex- tends also to that which lines the inner surface of the abdominal parietes.j: There is, at the same time, usually present in the cavity of the abdomen, a greater or less quantity of serum, mixed with numerous flocculi of recently effused coagulable lymph ; the effusion not unfrequently presenting the appearance + Vide a Clinical Lecture on Cases of Hernia, by Sir Charles Bell, in the 13th vol. of the Lond. Med. Gaz.p. 925. 1 Op. citat. p. 984.