LIGATURE OF THE POPLITEAL ARTERY. 189 got at, and where its coats are sound, leaving the aneurismal tu- mour to be removed by the absorbents, at the same time that the anastomosing vessels are preserved in the best condition possible for carrying on the circulation during the period which is requi- site for the cure of the disease. The great merit of establishing the principles upon which the operation effects the cure of the disease, of confirming its superior advantages by numerous cases, and of procuring for it a universal adoption by the surgical profession, belongs, without the possibility of contradiction, to John Hun ter. | The operation of tying the popliteal artery.—The patient, having been placed upon the table, should lie upon his face, with the limb extended. The first incision, which must be three or four inches in length, should be made along the external border of the semi-membranosus muscle, and should divide the skin and subcutaneous layer of adipose substance. The direc- tion of this incision may be slightly oblique from within, out- wards and downwards, so as nearly to correspond with the course of the artery as it winds round the inner and posterior surface of the lower third of the femur, to gain the interval between the condyles of that bone. The fascia lata, having been thus ex- posed, may be divided to the same extent as the first incision, either upon a director introduced underneath it, or with the hand unsupported. The external border of the semi-membranosus muscle is now exposed to view, and should be detached from its connexions by a few light touches with the edge of the scalpel, in order that it may be held aside by means of a blunt hook. The adipose substance which fills the popliteal region is, in the next place, to be cut through in the same careful manner, so as to lay bare the sheath of the vessels as they lie deeply under- neath the edge of the preceding muscle, which, when it is largely developed, completely overlaps them. It must be recol- lected that the artery is situated more deeply in the cavity of the ham, and also lies more internally than the vein, with the coats of which, however, it is in very intimate contact. In many cases the great sciatic nerve is not seen in the operation as thus performed, for it is placed rather to the external side of the popliteal vessels; but if, from any cause, it should present itself under the knife, it may be withdrawn to the outer side of X Seethe description of Hunter’s operation for the cure of the popliteal aneurism, in the Transactions of a Society, See. p. 148.