TERES MINOB. 261 side of the upper half of the arni. Direction, downward and plii^htly humerus at tl)e niidcUe of tlie sliaft. Action, adduction and flexion of the arm. Nerve, the musculo- cutaneous. Latissimus (Figs. 276, 277). —" The broadest muscle "—from the Latin /afit.s, " broad." Sijnu- nym, latissimus dorsi, " the broad- est of the back." Situation, in the back, from the lower half of the spine to the upper part of the arm. Origin, the spines of six or seven lower thoracic vertebra?, and, through the lumbar fascia, the splines of the lumbar and sac- ral, and the back of the outer lip of the iliac crest, the last three or four ribs, and often the lower angle of the scapula. Direction, upward, outward, and forward, converging to the insertion, the tendon twisting from above down- ward and backward, so that its front is continuous with the back of the muscle. Insertion, the floor of the bicipital groove. tion, adduction, extension, rotation inward. Nerve, the long subscapular. The costal points of origin interlock with those of the obliquus exteriuis abdominis. Teres Major (Figs. 278, 27!»).— " The greater round muscle." Situation, between scapula and upper end of arm, in hind wall of armpit. Origin, the oval sur- face on the back of the scapula at its lower angle. Direction, up-, out-, and forward. Insertion, the inner bicipital ridge. Action, adduction, extension, and inward rotation of arm. Nerve, the lower subscapular. Infraspinatus (Figs. 278, 280). —" The muscle below the spine " of the scapula. Situation, in the infraspinous fossa and behind the Iiead of the humerus. Origin, the inner two-thirds of the infi'a- spinous fossa. Direction, outward. Insertion, the middle facet of the great tuberosity of the humerus. Action, external rotation of the arm. Nerve, the suprasca])ular. Teres Minor (Figs. 278-281).- Origiii, the coracoid process of the scajnila. outward. Insertion, the inner border of the Ac- and Fig. 277. meut-aryas. —Latissimus of right side: {F. H. G.) outline and attach- The smaller rount luscle. Situettion, between the scapula and the upper end of the arm, in the hind wall of the arm-