THE FRONTAL BONE. 169 prevent dislocation and to strengthen the cranial vault. The superior border forms with that of the op])osite bone the mgittal (" arrow-like ") suture. The anterior borders of the pair articulate with the frontal bone in the fronto- parietal or coronal (" crown ") suture, and meet one another at nearly a right angle in European skulls, while the posterior borders, which form the lambdoid suture by articulation with the occipital, meet at an obtuse angle. The inferior border has three divisions. Behind, it is serrated for a short distance to articulate with the mastoid portion of the temporal bone in the parieto-mastoid sidure. In front of this the border is thin, concave, and externally bevelled and fluted, where it is overlapped by the scpiamous portion of the temporal in the squamous suture. The great wing of the sphenoid overlajjs the front inch or so, forming the spheno-parietal suture. Angles.—Of the superior angles the anterior is at the hrec/ma (" sinciput"), the posterior at the lambda, (Greek letter A). The j^rojecting anterior inferior angle is at the pterion (" wing"), and is sometimes excluded from articulation with the sphenoid by the contact of the squamosal and frontal. Ossification occurs in membrane from a single centre and commences at the site of the parietal eminence. Varieties.—Rarely a horizontal suture divides the bone into two parts. A large opening is very rai'ely seen at the site of the parietal foramen. THE FRONTAL BONE. The frontal ("forehead") bone (Figs. 189-191) forms the skeleton of the fore- head, and receives the frontal lobes of the brain in the concavity between the FRONTAL EMINENCE TEMPORAL CREST -EXTERNAL ANGULAR PROCESS Fig. 189.—The frontal bone, seen from in front. (Testut.) main or vertical portion, which arches upward and backward from the orbital margin, and the two thin horizontal or orbital plates, which extend backward from the same point, separated by a median gap, the ethmoidal notch. The anterior or external surface is convex, and most strongly so at the fronted eminences, a little below tlie centre of each lateral half. Below and separated from these by shallow grooves are the arched superciliary (" above the lashes ") ridges, converging in the median line to tlie na,sal eminence, below which is the smooth j glabella (" little smooth place "). Traces of the metopjic (" frontal ") suture, which I originally separated the two halves of the frontal, usually persist in the glabella. Behind the superciliary ridges lie the fronted sinuses, which cause the prominence of the ridges in the male. The arched supraorbital (" above the orbit") ridges, more sharply marked externally, limit this surface below and form the anterior SUPRAORBITA RIDGE INTERNAL ANGULAR PROCESS