THE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. 544 best be studied in connection with the picture (Fig. 601). From before backward are seen in the vermis the nodule, the uvula, the pyramid, and the dorsal tuber (tuber posticum) ; and in the hemisphere thefloeculuis (" little tuft of wool"), the amiigdala ("almond"), the biventral or digadrle lobe, the alender lobe, and the dorao-inferior lobe. The uvula and amytjdahe are so named on account of their TRIFACtAL NERVE Fig. 601.—Under surface of cerebelluui. Tlie lieiiii.spheri.-s are pulled apart to give a view ot the inferior vermis. The nodule does not appear; the tuber is not labelled. Compare with scheme of this surface. (Testut.) reseml)lance to the parts of the same name in the pharynx, as seen through the open mouth. The fissures are named from their position with reference to the nodule, the pyramid, and the slender lol)e—the postnodular fissure, the pre- pi/raniidal fissure, the postpyramidal fissure, and the posUjraeile fissure. NODULE. UVULA. PYRAMID. DORSAL TUBER. Under Surface of Cerebelluji. VERMIS. HEMISPHERE. FLOCCULUS. FOSTNODULAR FisHVRE. AMYGDALA. PREPYRAMIDAL FISSURE. DIGASTRIC LOBE, POSTPYRAMIDAL FISSURE. r SLENDER LOBE. < POSTGRACILE FISSURE. I DORSO-INFERIOR LOBE. Embedded in each hemisphere is a nucleus, called the corpus dentedum (" toothed body ") from its jagged outline (Fig. 602). Its centre is white, and on the mesial side near the front the gray wall is deficient. Near this are three other masses of gray of small size—the nucleus emholiformis (" pluglike "), the nucleus glohosus ("spherical"), and the nucleus fastigii ("of the summit"). The general method of arrangement of the fibres traced into the cerebellum from its peduncles is shown in Fig. 603. The superior peduncle is mainly made up of fibres from the corpus dentatum and the cerebellar cortex. The middle peduncle is composed of fibres from cells in the cortex. They run to cells on both sides of the pons, and do not, as gross appearances suggest, go around from one side of the cei'ebellum to the other. The inferior peduncle receives fibres from cells of the cerebellar cortex and the ol)lon- gata, from the direct cerebellar tract of the spinal coi'd, and from the nuclei gracilis and cuneatus.