819 THE PROSTATE GLAND. I veins, the pubo-prostatic ligaments, and the anterior ligament of the bladder. The lateral mrfaees are convex, and covered l)y the anterior margins of the leva- tores ani muscles, the vesico-prostatic plexus of veins intervening. The base is situated immediately below the bladder, with the muscular fibers of which it is directly continuous. The apex rests on the upper surface of the superior layer of the triangular ligament, about half an inch behind the symphysis, and a little below the horizontal plane drawn through the highest point of the subpubic arch. The prostate is traversed from base to apex by the first portion of the urethra, which occu])ies the median plane, but is nearer to its anterior than to its posterior surface. The direction of the ejaculatory ducts has already been described. Lobes.—The prostate consists of two lateral lobes, which meet and become continuous both in front of and behind the urethra ; and this bilobed condition is indicated by a posterior median groove, the prostatic fissure, which lodges the vasa defer- (mtia and the vesiculse seminales. On median section, however, the gland is seen to consist of three jiarts, one in front of and two behind the the urethra. Of the two posterior divisions that above the ejaculatory ducts is called the third or median lobe. It is, of course, continu- ous at the sides with the lateral lobes. When I slightly enlarged the median lobe forms a ])ro- I jection on the middle zone of the base ; greater degrees of enlargement cause the posterior wall of the vesico-urethral opening to become convex, i thus changing both the length and direction of the urethra, and often interfering with micturition and the passage of sounds. Minute Structure.—Structurally the prostate consists of two principal ele- ments—stroma, and glandular tissue. The sfronia, made up of connective tissue and smooth muscular fibres, fin-ms for the jirostate a sort of external capsule, in the thickness of which are lodged the veins of tlie jirostatic plexus. By its outer surface this capsule is in contact and blended with the recto-vesical foscia and the suj)erior layer of the triangular ligament. The inner surface of the capsule gives birth to a system of trabeeula:, whicli, radiating toward the veru- montanum in the floor of the urethra, divide the gland into a number of triangu- i lar spaces, in which is lodged the glandular tissue. The muscular fibres of the ! stroma are abundant, constituting al)out one half of the entire mass of the gland. Above, they are contiinious with the muscular fibres of the bladder wall, and form a strong ring surrounding the urethra; below, they are mingled with a small amount of voluntary muscular tissue, derived probably from the trans- verse perineal muscles. The glands are of the branched or tubular variety, and number 30 or 40. They are disposed in a radiating direction around the urethra. Their ducts communicate with the urethra by minute orifices, opening into the prostatic sinuses on either side of the verumontaniun. The glands are lined by a layer of columnar epithelium. They secrete a milky fluid, which at the moment of ejaculation is added to the seminal fluid. Vessels and Nerves.—The arterial snpply is derived from the inferior vesical and the middle hemorrhoidal arteries. These furnish branches of small calibre, which ramify in the thickness of the organ, forming capillary plexuses around the walls of the glands. The veins empty into the plexus (vesico-prostatic), ! which surrounds the jirostate, terminating finally in the internal iliac vein. The lymphatics take origin around the glandular walls, ramify with the venous plexus, and finally end in the internal iliac nodes. The nerves are branches of the hypo- gastric plexus. MUSCULAR FIBRES OF BLADDER —CUT AT THEIR PROSTATIC INSERTION Fiii. SSK.—Base of the prostate glanj. (Testut after Sappey.)