THE OVARIES. 825 ovum to one side of the follicle, usually that nearest to the surfiice of the ovary, where the cells of the discus proligerus are continuous with those of the mem- brana granulosa. (4) Between the membrana granulosa and the tunica propria there appears a thin structureless membrane, the manbrana propria. The largest follicles are from -^^^ to J an inch or more in diameter. Their increased size is due mainly to an increase of the liquor folliculi. In this stage the membrana granulosa and discus proligerus each consists of several layers of Fig. 892.—Graafian follicles, in different stages of development. Piagrammatic. (Tostut.) cells, derived by proliferation from the pre-existing cells. In the external layer, that is next to the tunica propria and the ovum, the cells retain their columnar outline, but the remaining layers are composed of irregular or rounded cells. Origin.—In early toetal life, the ovary is represented by a cellular mass derived from the peritoneal cover of the Wolffian body, and called the gcr^ninal epitheJimn.. Among the small cells of which it is composed are certain larger, spherical, nucleated cells, the primordial ova.. Soon, from the fibrous stroma beneath the epithelium, prolongations of connective tissue grow into the mass of cells ; and coincidently the cells, themselves becoming involuted at certain points, grow into the stroma. In this way irregular tubes lined with polyhedral or rounded cells are formed. Later, bands of stroma grow across these tubes and divide them into nests of cells. These nests are the future Graafian follicles, and each contains at least one primordial ovum. From the smaller cells are developed the membrana granulosa and discus proligerus. By about the seventh month of intra-uterine life these processes cease, and thereafter the ovaiy is covered by the single layer of epithelium already descril>ed. Location.—The smallest follicles are found in the outer layer of the cortical zone of the ovary, where they are so numerous as to impart to this region a granu- lar appearance. Many of these never develop. The larger follicles (ten to twenty in each ovary) occupy the deeper layer of the cortical zone. The largest and most mature follicles are in contact with the medullary substance and nourished by its rich va.scular supply. Extending entirely across the cortical layer, they project from the surface of the ovary in the form of clear vesicles, 2V to ^ of an inch in diameter. At puberty a certain number of follicles become enlarged, and from that time until the climacteric new ones are being constantly developed. Structure of the Ova.—The human ovum in the primordial stage is about Ywo'Q inch in diameter, in the mature stage its diameter is increased to y^^- of an inch. It is developed from a nucleated cell and presents the following parts: (1) an outer covering representing the cell wall, and called the zona, pel- lucida or vitelline membrane; (2) within this a mass of protoplasm, the vitellus or