158 THE BONES. ai'ise from the narrow anterior or flexor surface, and flex the ankle on eontinuing their primary action. The external surface turns dorsally in the lower fourth to become continuous with the posterior surface of the malleolus. The antero-inter- nal or interosseous border (Fig. 178) is close to the antero-external border above but diverges from it below, where, an inch or more above the malleolus, it ends at the apex of a rough triangular area which attaches the inferior interosseous ligament. This border attaches the interosseous membrane which se])aratcs the i muscles arising from the anterior surfixce from the tibialis posterior, which supi- iiates the ankle and arises from the fusiform interned or supinator surface. The i latter surface occupies the upjjer two-thirds only of the shaft. It is separated i from the posterior surface by the postero-internal border, which joins the interos- seous border in the lower third, and attaches a fibrous septum separating the i muscles which arise from the surfaces on either side. The posterior or extensor \ surface, becoming more internal below, attaches the soleus above and the flexor I longus hallucis below. The latter muscles are separated from the peronei by a ! sejjtum attached to the prominent postero-external border, which passes from the styloid process to the back of the malleolus. The nutrient foramen, directed downward, is seen in the middle third of the posterior surface. The head, the outer surface of the malleolus, and the triangular area above it are subcutaneous; otherwise the shaft is covered by muscles. Fracture occurs very commonly an inch or two above the malleolus. Ossificrdion.—The lower epiphysis, although it ossifies first, joins the shaft about the twentieth or twenty-first year, Avhile the upper or more vestigial epiphysis remains separate until the twenty-second to the twenty-fourth year. THE BONES OF THE FOOT. The skeleton of the foot is composed of three groups of bones—those of the j tarsus ("the flat of the foot"), metatarsus ("beyond the tarsus"), and digits. The ' bones of the foot, although resembling those of the hand, are modified in the direc- i tion of greater firmness, and are in a position of permanent pronation and dorsal i flexion. | THE TARSAL BONES. The tarsus contains seven bones—the astragalus, calcaneum, cuboid, navicular, | and the three cuneiform bones. The astragalus (" a die ") GROOVE FOR FLF" LONG. HALL. The Astragalus. , or tcdus (Figs. 179, 181, 183, 184), occupies the upper part of the arch of the foot, where it articu- , lates with the tibia above and internally, and with i the fibula externally. It receives the weight of the ^, body from the tibia, and transmits it by articulation to the calcaneum lielow and the navicular in front. Its long axis is directed forward and inward to the convex anterior extremity, or Jiead,, which is joined by a slightly constricted neckio the main part, or body, behind. The upypersurfaceAs occupied by the trochlear articular surface for the tibia. This is convex from before backward, and slightly concave transversely. It is In'oader in front than liehind, and continuous with the lateral facets for the malleoli. The facet on the outer surface, for the external malleolus, is triangular and vertically concave ; that on the inner] surface, for the internal malleolus, is smaller, nar- row, and pyriform ; antl to the rough surface below, is attached the deep portion of the deltoid ligament. The under surface ])resents! a deep groove for the interosseous ligament, which jsasses from within obliquely' Fig. 179.—Right astragalus, under surface. (Testut.)