389 THE ARTERIES. riglit l^rachio-cephalic vein and the pneumogastric nerve are to the right of the vessel, and the pleura and trachea are behind. In passing an aneurism-needle it is best passed from the right to the left behind the vessel, care being taken to avoid injury to the pneumogastric nerve, the brachio-cephalic veins, and the pleura. Branclies.—In addition to the terminal branches, the right common carotid and right subclavian, the brachio-cephalic occasionally gives off a branch, the iliijroidea ima, which passes upward on the surface of the trachea to the isthmus of the thyroid gland, and the occasional presence of this branch should be remembered in the operations of removal of the thyroid gland, and in low tracheotomy. The common carotid arteries (Fig. 443) differ upon the two sides. The right takes its origin from the brachio-ce^jhalic, the left from the arch of the aorta ; the left is, therefore, the longer of the two. In the neck the common carotids are so nearly alike that one description Avill answer for both. It Avill be necessarv, how- ever, to describe that portion of the left carotid which extends from the arch to the sterno-clavicular articulation. The Left Carotid Artery in the Thorax. This portion resembles somewhat the brachio-cephalic artery in length and in its relation to surrounding structure. Relatio>"s. /» front. Sternum. Sterno-hyoid and sterno-tliyroid. Left brachio-cephalic vein. Right side. Left side. Left carotid Left pneumogastric nerve. Brachio-cephalic artery. in Left subclavian. thorax. Artery. Behind. Trachea. CEsophagus. Thoracic duct. THE COMMON CAROTIDS IN THE NECK. Origin, opposite the sterno-clavicular articulation from the brachio-cephalic on the right side, and from the thoracic portion of the common carotid on the left. Course, upward and outward in a line drawn betsveen the sterno-clavicular articulation and a point midway between the angle of the jaAv and the mastoid process. The vessel is covered by the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle, the inner border of which is a good guide to its course. Termination : at the level of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, the common carotid divides into the inter- nal and external carotids. Relatioxs. In front. Integument and superficial fascia. Platysma and deep cervical fascia. Sterno-mastoid muscle. Sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, omo-hyoid muscles. Descendens noni nerve. Sterno-mastoid arterv. Superior and middle thyroid veins. Anterior jugular vein.