806 THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. but soon become coiled and convoluted, forming a series of cone-shaped masses, the eoni vascidoai. These cones, their apices turned toward the tunica albuginea, are each about one-third of an inch in length ; together thev^ constitute the globus major. The tube of Avhich each i^ composed is about one-thirtieth of an inch in diameter near its origin, about half as large at its termination, and measures when uncoiled from six to eight inches in length. The uppermost vessel merges without line of demarcation into the canal of the epididvmis, the remainder open at regular intervals into that canal. The walls of the efferent vessels are made of smooth muscular fibres, circularly arranged, and lined by a ciliated, cylindrical epithelium. The canal of the epididymis takes origin in the globus major in the manner ah-eady described. Extending downward, it forms the body and globus minor, and then merges into the vas deferens. It is disposed in numerous coils, held together by areolar tissue. The length of the canal when uncoiled varies from twelve to twenty feet, and its diameter, about one-sixtieth of an inch above, gradually decreases as it approaches the globus minor, to enlarge again beyond that point. The walls are thin, and are composed of smooth muscular tissue, which near the vas may be separated into a superficial longitudinal layer and a circular one. This muscular coat is lined by a layer of ciliated, columnar epithelium. The cilia of the canal are longer than those found in the efferent vessels, but like the latter their motion is toward the vas. Beneath the fixed ends of the columnar cells is found a layer of young cells, destined later to replace the former. Vessels and Nerves.—The arterial supply of the testicle is derived chiefly from the spermatic artery, which joins the other structures of the spermatic cord at the internal ring. Approaching the gland it divides into two sets of branches —testicular and epididymal. The former, at the posterior superior portion of the testicle, subdivides into two sets of branches, as follows : (1) a peripheral group Av'hich travels forward in the thickness of the albuginea ; (2) a central group, which ])ierces the mediastinum, and breaks up into a plexus on the walls of the loculi. From this a multitude of fine branches are sent to form plexuses around the walls of the seminiferous canals. The epididymal branches, joining with the terminal twigs of the deferential artery, form a plexus around the canal of the epididymis. The veins pierce the mediastinum, and unite into six or seven trunks, which foi'm a plexus, the 'pampiniform (" tendril-shaped "), surrounding the spermatic artery, and lying in front of the vas. Farther up in the cord the veins become reduced to two or three, and these, following the artery into the abdominal cavity, finally unite to form a single trunk, the spermatic vein, which empties on the right into the inferior vena cava, on the left into the corresponding renal vein. The veins from the epididymis form a second group of two or three trunks only, which pass upward in the cord behind the vas, and empty into the deep epigastric veins. The lympjhcdics form a plexus around the seminiferous canals, where they begin as minute spaces lined by epithelial cells. Together with the lymphatics of the epididymis, they accompany the spermatic vessels to end in the lumbar nodes. The nerves are derived from the aortic, renal, and hypogastric plexuses of the sympathetic. Branches from these form a secondary plexus around the s]icrmatic artery and the artery of the vas. Their mode of termination is not w(dl understood. Foetal Remains.—The liydcdids ("vesicles") of Morr/dgni are two small V)odies —one pedicnlated, the other sessile—which are found in connection with the globus major and the upjier extremity of the testicle. The pediculaied Jiydatid, rounded or pyriform in outline, and from one-eighth to one-third of an inch in length, .is attached to the head of the epididymis, and covered by the tunica vaginalis. Its cavity, lined by a cylindrical, ciliated epithelium, contains a trans- parent fluid. This body is not always present, and its morphological significance has not been satisfactorily explained. The sessile hydatid, a rounded or flattened