THE PEllITONEUM. 751 front of the pancreas. The other abdominal vi.scera have their serosa from the great sac. The narrow strait between the great and small cavities of the j^eritonenm is called the foramen of Winsloui, and foramen epipldicnm (Figs. 808, 809). It is bounded in front by the vessels entering and leaving the portal fissure of the liver, VERTEBRA COMMON HEPATIC BILE DUCT ARTERY Fig. 809.—Transverse horizontal section throiigh the foramen of Winslow. The lower end of the Spigelian lobe has been shaved off, and the upper surface of the piece is seen. (Testut.) behind by the vena cava inferior, above by the caudate lobe of the liver, and below by the duodenum. It is large enough to admit two fingers. The Small Sac of the Peritoneum (Figs. 810, 811).—In the embryo the small sac reaches at first but little lower than the stomach ; but afterward it enlarges rapidly by extension downward, and forms a pouch, which hangs from the great curvature of the stomach in front of the intestines, and contracts adhesion to and blends with the front part of the serous coat of the transverse colon, thus estab- TRANSVERSE COLON TRANSVERSE COLON Fig. 810.-Diagram of a sagittal section of the abdomen of an embryo, showing the reflections of the peritoneum in the great cavity and the small cavity. (Testut.) Fig. 811.—Diagram of a sagittal section of the abdo- men of an adult, showing the growth of the small cavity, and the application of its rear wall to the trans- verse colon and mesocolon. Compare with preceding figure. (Testut.) lishing a connection between the stomach and colon, which is called the r/afifro- oolic omenfimi, on account of the organs which it unites, and great omentum, because it is so much larger than the gastro-hepatic. It is thus seen that the name " cavity of the great omentum " is synonymous with " the small cavity of the peritoneum." Not only does the small sac become adherent to the colon, but its posterior double layer becomes attached to and merged Avith the anterior (up])er) surface of the transverse mesocolon.: and so intimate is this connection that this part of the