THE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SENSES. 676 the service to the tympanum that is rendered by the hole in the side of the kind of drum which is accounted a musical instrument. The Eustachian tube {tuba auditlva) (Fig. 727) is about an inch and a half long. It extends downward, forward, and inward, and its lower end presents a Fig. 727.—Eustachian tube, laid open by a cut in its long axis. (Testut.) projecting margin on the lateral wall of the pharynx, close by the inferior meatus of the nose. Its upper part is bony, its lower is cartilaginous. It is lined with mucous membrane. Above and parallel with the Eustachian tube is a bony canal, lodging the tensor tympani muscle, whose tendon ])roiects into the tymjxanic cavity. The Ossicles (Fig. 725).—Extending across the tympanum from side to side is a chain of three little bones, the ossicula. auditus ("ossicles of hearing"). From without inward they are the malleus, the incus, and the stapes. The malleus is attached to the membrana tympani, the stapes to the membrane of the fenestra ovalis, and the incus is between and connects the others, with each of which it has a movable articulation. The malleus (" hammer") has a roundish head, which is upward, a constricted ncch, and a long tapering handle {manubrium), which extends downward and a little backward. A lonfj procefss runs downward and forward from below the neck to tlie Glaserian fissure; and a short process passes outward to the mem- brana tympani. The incus ("anvil") presents a body, upon the anterior surface of which is an articular area by which it is jointed to the malleus ; a shoii process, which runs to the posterior wall near the opening of the mastoid antrum ; and a conical, long process, which extends at first downward and at last mesially, ending in a knob, the orbicuhtr j^rocess, which articulates with the stapes. The stapes (" stirrup ") Ijears a remarkable resemblance to the object from which it is named. Its base, the foot-piece, is broad and very nearly fills the fenestra ovalis, to whose membrane it is attached. The side-pieces, ci-ura, con- verge to the neck, beyond which is the head, cupped on its outer surface, and articulating with the orbicular process of the incus. Besides the attachment of the malleus to the membrana tympani and that of