139 THE RADIUS. its upper three-fourths, below which it is subcutaneous. The dorsal surface is inclined shghtly outward. To a triangle on its upper fourth, marked otf by an oblique line from the supinator ridge to the dorsal border, the anconeus is inserted behind and internal to the supinator triangle. Below this a vertical ridge separates an inter- nal area, covered by the extensor carpi ulnaris, from an external area, for the origin of the ex- tensors of the thumb and index hnger. The lower extreniily is small, and presents (1) a rounded head with a flattened, semi- lunar articular facet inferiorly, which plays 1 upon the triangular fibro-cartilage, aiid a con- vex facet externally received into the sigmoid cavity of the radius ; (2) the cylindrical styloid I (" pillar-like") pro<-css, which descends from I the inner and back part of the head. To its extremity is attached the internal lateral liga- } ment, and to the depression at its base, exter- nally, the triangular iibro-cartilage. In the • groove behind and between it and the head i glides the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris. i The subcidancous parts are the triangular I surface back of the olecranon, the dorsal border, j the lower fourth of the inner surface, the sty- 1 loid, and, in pronation, tlie outer and fore part of the head. Notice that the ulna does not articulate directly with the carpus. Ossification occurs in cartilage from one primary centre for the shaft. The U]>per end of the olecranon, ossified from a secondary cen- tre, joins the shaft in the sixteenth or seven- teenth year. The lower extremity, ossifying from an earlier formed centre, joins the shaft from about the eighteenth to the twentieth year. THE RADIUS. The radius (" spoke "), the outer bone of the forearm, takes little part in the elbow-, but the principal part in the wrist-joint, articulating with the scaphoid, semilunar, and ulna below, the humerus and ulna above. The disc-shaped upper extrerniti/, or head, presents, superiorly, a shallow articu- lar depression with an encircling rim, which articulate respectively with the capi- tellum of the humerus and the groove internal to it, especially in flexion of the j elbow. Its smooth, short, vertical margin is deeper internally, where it articu- lates with the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna, than externally, where it is embraced by the orbicular ligament. Below the head is a constricted neck, which joins the shaft opposite the bicipiial tubcrosiUi. The latter, situated ventro- internally, has a rough dorsal ])ortion for insertion of the biceps tendon and a smoother ventral part covered by a bursa. The shaft is triangular, curved outward and slightly backward, and becomes larger below. The internal or mterosseous border, commencing below the tuber- osity, is prominent in the middle three-fifths, and in the lower fifth it divides into two lines, which pass to the two ends of the sigmoid cavity. The interosseous I membrane is attached to it. The ventral and dorsal borders, commencing at the tuberosity, pass obliquely downward and outward as the reidrcd and dorsal obiifpte lines to the junction of the upper and middle thirds, and thence descend to the front and back of the styloid process, becoming less marked below. To the ventral Fig. 162.—The bones of the right fore- arm, front view. (Testut.)