THE NERVES. 648 It contains no gans^lia. In front of tlic sacrum it splits into two lateral portions, which join the pelvic plexuses. The Pe/vie Flcxu.s.—Lying on each side of the rectum and bladder in the male, and of the rectum, vagina, and bladder in the female, is a network, rich in ganglia where the fibres interlace, formed by the continuation of the hypogastric plexus, offsets from the upper sacral ganglia, and branches from the second, third, and fourth sacral nerves. This is the inferior hypogastric or pelvic plexus. From this branches are distributed to the pelvic viscera, which at first folloAV the branches of the internal iliac artery, their terminal twigs leaving the vessels and entering the substance of the organs. Thus the inllowing secondary plexuses are formed, viz : The hemorrhoidal plc.rus, derived from the upper part of the pelvic plexus, accompanies the middle hemorrhoidal artery and joins with the plexus on the superior hemorrhoidal vessels in suj)plying the rectal wall. The vertical plexus is a close network, rich in sjiinal fibres, which is best marked over the sides and base of the bladder. It gives off plexuses to the vasa defcrentia and vesiculse seminales, of which the former join the spermatic plexuses and the latter receive communications from the prostatic plexus. The prostatic plexus, lying between the ])rostate and levator ani, sends fibres backward to join the plexuses on the vesicuhiL' seminales and tVirward through the triangular ligament to the corpus cavernosum. The vaginal j^lcxus is largely composed of spinal nerves. It sujiplies the mucous membrane and erectile tissues of the vagina, and sends twips to the clitoris. The uterine plexus is mainly derived from the pelvic continuation of the hvpo- gastric plexus and third and fourth sacral nerves. It enters the broad ligament, communicates there with the ovarian plexus, and is mainly distributed over the neck and hiwer part of the body of the uterus. It contains numerous ganglia. The apparent hypertro2)hy of these nerves in pregnancy is due to thickening of their iibrous sheaths. The Sacral Portion of the Gangliated Cord. In the pelvis the sympathetic trunks, much diminished in size, descend on the inner sides of the anterior sacral foramina, a ganglion usually appearing for each of the four u]i])er sacral nerves. In front of the coccyx the tAvo cords unite in one ganglion, called the ganglion inqjar, which is usually connected with both coccygeal nerves. Short rami communicantes connect each of these ganglia with one or more of the sacral'nerves, and rami eiferentes join the pelvic plexus, while others form a plexus on the middle sacral artery or jiass to the sacrum and coccyx and their liga- ments. Through the pelvic ])lexus the pelvic viscera are supplied Avith motor, vasomotor, and secretoiy fibres. The Prevertebral Plexuses of the Sympathetic.—These plexuses are named respectively the cardiac, solar, hypogastric, and pelvic. Each plexus is single and median, and is composed of nerves derived from both sympathetic trunks, with others derived from the cerebro-spinal nerves. Ganglia are developed in their meshes and from them subsidiary j^lexuses are formed. The Cardiac Plexus.—Beneath and behind the aortic arch is a meshwork of nerve-fibres, which for convenience of description is divided into a superficial and a deep portion, though the two form one continuous plexus. The nerves enter- ing into this plexus are the superior and inferior cervical cardiac branches of the vagi, the thoracic cardiac branches of the same nerves, and the superior, middle, and infei'ior cardiac branches of the sympathetic. Of these nerves the superior cardiac branch of the left sympathetic trunk, and the lower cervical cardiac branch of the left pneumogastric form, in the concavity of the aortic arch, the superficial cardiac p>le,xus. In its meshes is a small ganglion.