376 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTE3L it is important to avoid unnecessary separation of the slieath from the artery, because the destruction of the feeding vessels of the latter deprives the part of its nourishment, and results in its death. The vasa vasorum are either branches of the artery which they supply, being given off a little distance above their areas of distribution, or else they are contributed by a neighboring artery. Tlie Branching of Arteries.—The arterial system is aptly compared to a tree, from whose trunk many large branches spring, each of these giving origin to smaller branches, and so on until the most diminutive twigs arc reached. Various methods of branching are observed in arteries (Fig. 435). Often an artery PLEXUS MAIN TRUNK Fig. 435.—Diagram showing the branchings, anastomoses, and confluence of arteries. (F. H. G.) divides into two terminal branches of nearly equal size, this method being called dichotomous, because the end of the vessel is split in two. Rarely an artery terminates in three approximately equal branches that diverge from the parent .stem, which hence is called an axis. Most branches spring from the sides of an artery, and are, consequently, said to be given off in its course. These lateral branches usually form acute angles with their trunk, but sometimes right angles, and occasionally obtuse. The sectional area, of an artery is always less beyond the point at which a branch springs from it ; but the combined sectional area of the immediate branches of an artery is always greater than that of the trunk from which they originate. Consequently, the capacity of the arterial .system at any given distance from the heart exceeds that at any plane proximal to this, and thus there is vastly more blood in the smallest arteries (arterioles) than in the aorta and pulmonary artery, which receive the fluid directly from the heart. Arteries generally pursue a course which is substantially straight or describes a generous curve ; but some are serpentine, presenting a tortuous ajjpearance, and this condition obtains in localities where the parts are liable to great changes of form, in some of which the vessel, if straight during quiescence, would be sub- jected to destructive stretching. The course of the blood in the arteries is, as a rule, from centre to periphery; but exceptions occur, as in the case of the so-called recurrent arteries, which run backward, carrying the blood toward the heart. These vessels are frequent about