THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 818 THE PROSTATE GLAND. The prostate ("standing in front") (Figs. 887, 888) is a glandular body, situ- ated around the initial portion of the urethra. It develops at puberty, atrophies after castration, and in certain animals increases in size during the breeding season. Fig. 88;.—Proximal portion of the uretlira, laid open by a median, anterior cut. (Testut.) Form and Location.—It is irregularly cone-shaped, flattened from before back- ward, and is so directed that its central axis, running downward and forward from base to apex, makes with the vertical an angle of twenty to twenty-five degrees. It occupies the median line, lying below the bladder, above the tri- angular ligament, behind the symphysis, and in front of the rectal ampulla. Volume.—In the child the prostate is only rudimentary in size ; but at puberty it begins to enlarge, attaining its full development from the twentieth to tlie twenty-fifth year. Its size, therefore, depends on the age of the subject. In the adult it is about one inch and a quarter in length (from base to apex), one and one-half inch in width at the base, a little over an inch in thickness, and it weighs from four to six drachms. After the sixtieth year of life, often earlier, the prostate frequently becomes enlarged to doulile or even tri})le its original size; and this senile hypertrophy, which is probably always pathological, may be con- fined to the middle l(il)e, or may affect the entire organ. Conformation and Relations.—The gland presents for description a base, an apex, an anterior, a posterior, and two lateral surfaces. The posterior surface, looking backward and downward, rests on the anterior wall of the rectum, through which it may be felt above the internal sjihincter and below and in front j of the trigone of tlie bladder. This surf;ice presents along the median line a shallow groove, which indicates the divisi(jn of the gland into lobes. The anterior or pubic face, convex, shorter, and of less extent than the posterior, is turned toward the symphysis, from which it is separated by the prostatic plexus of