522 THE CEBEBBO-SPINAL AXIS. pora albicantla (" wliitish bodies"), otherwise called corpoi'a mammillaria ("teat- like bodies"). The upward-passing cord from the corpus albicans of each side to the corresponding thalamus is known as the bundle of Vicq-cVAzip-. Thus it appears that the fornix is a fore-and-aft commissure, ])ursuing a cir- cuitous course from the base of the brain in the region of the thalami to the descending horns of the lateral ventricles. Each lateral half of the fornix is principally devoted to the association of the parts on its own side ; but each also has, through the lyra, a connection with the corresponding organs on the opposite side. The Anterior Commissure (Fig. 573). Directly in front of the anterior pillars of the fornix a rope-like bundle of nerve-hbres runs across from the front part of one temporal lobe to the correspond- ing part uj)on the opposite side. It describes in its course a large curve with its Fig. f)73.—Anterior commissure, left lialf, viewed from above. (Testut.) convexity forward and a little upward. It passes through the lenticular nuclei, and finally spreads out in the temporal lol>es. This is the anterior commissure. The Septum Lucidum. Occupying the space between the under surface of the callosum and the upper surface of the fornix is a structure, called the septum lueidum (" the clear parti- tion") (Fig. 568). It forms the dividing wall between the lateral ventricles. It consists of two layers of nervous tissue, enclosing a small, perfectly closed cavity, a mere crevice, which has no communication with any of the chambers of the encephalon. This hollow space is formed bv a jjrocess of vacuolation, which means substantially that the middle ]Kirt of the single thick plate, of which the septum originally consisted, was withdrawn by gradual al)sorption, leaving in its stead a (^hink, which is the carifi/ of the septum lucidum. (Fig. 577). This si)ace is. occupied by a little serous fluid. The wall next to the cavity is gray, but is white on the outside—that is, next to the lateral ventricle. The GanglIxV of the Hemispheke. Embedded in the substance of the hemisphere are several masses of gray mat- ter, which seem upon casual inspection to be detached collections, quite indejiend- ent of the cortex. On careful examination, however, they are found to be con- tinuous with the superficial gray substance, and even with each other. They are