THE 3IVSCLES. 322 Origin, hoth tubercles of the calcaucum. Direction, iovwarA and a little outward. Insertion, the outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the little toe. Action, abduction of the fifth digit. Kerve, the external plantar. Interossei Dorsales Pedis (Fig. 385).—" The dorsal interosseous muscles of the foot." A'umher, four. Situation, one in each of the four spaces between the metatarsal bones. Origin, each from the adjacent sides of two metatarsal bones. Direction, forward. Insertion, the bases of the first ])halanges, as follows : the first to the inner side of the second toe, the second to the outer side of the second toe, the third to the outer side of the third H I a toe, the fourth to the outer side of the fourth toe ; FOURTH DOBSAl INTEROSSEOUS THIRD DORSal INTEROSSEOUS Fig. 384.—Extensor brevis digi- torum of right foot. (Testut.) SECOND DORSAL INTEROSSEOUS FIRST DORSAL INTEROSSEOUS Fig. 38.5.—Interossei dorsales of right foot. The line arj; is that from which abduction is made. (Testut.) also, each to the extensor tendon of the cori'esponding toe. Action : each abducts from a line drawn through the long axis of the second toe. Those acting on the second toe are alternately abductors and adductors : when one of them has abducted the toe, the other restores it to its attitude of rest by adduction. The dorsal interossei also flex the fii'st phalanges, and afterward extend the second and thii'd. JVerve, the external plantar. Adductor Obliquus Hallucis (Fig. 386).—" The oblique adductor of the great toe." Si/noni/iii, adductor pollicis pedis, "the adductor of the thumb of the foot." Situation, in the fore and middle part of the third mu.scular layer of the sole. Origin, the proximal ends of the second, third, and fourth metatarsals. Direc- tion, forward and inward. Insertion, the outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, in common with the adductor transversus and the outer head of the flexor brevis hallucis. Action, adduction and flexion of the great toe. Nerre, the external ])lantar. Adductor Transversus Hallucis (Fig. 386).—"The transverse adductor of the great toe." Si/nonipu, transversus pedis, " the transverse muscle of the foot." Situcttion, in the third mu.scular layer of the sole, across the distal end of the metatarsus. Origin, the lower metatarso-phalangeal ligaments of the outer three toes and the transverse metatarsal ligament. Direction, transversely inward.