438 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTE3L tributed to the pyriformis and coccygeus muscles, and to the sacral nerves. Branches are sent into the anterior sacral foramina, where they supply the con- tents of the sacral canal and the bone. The External Iliac Artery (Figs. 470, 474). The external ilkie arfcrj/ arises from the division of the common iliac opposite the articulation between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum, passes down- ward and outward behind the peritoneum and along the inner border of the psoas magnus muscle to the inguinal (Poupart's) ligament, where it becomes the femoral. Eelatiojn^s of the External Iliac Artery. In front. Peritoneum. Intestines. Inner side. External External iliac vein and vas iliac deferens, artery. Behind. External iliac vein. Psoas magnus muscle. Variations.—The external iliac is sometimes of small size; its resulting femoral is small, and the lower extremity usually then receives a large part of its blood supply from a large sciatic artery. The obturator is occasionally a branch of tlie external iliac. Surgical Anatomy.—The first portion of the external iliac is best exposed by a transperitont al incision either in the mid-line or along the outer border of the rectus, with the j^atient in Trendelenburg's position, as in the ligation of the com- mon or internal iliac arteries. The lower portion of the external iliac is exposed best by an extraperineal operation. An incision is made above Poupart's liga- ment, the layers of the abdominal muscles are separated, as in the McBurney and McArthur incision for appendicitis; the peritoneum is exposed, but not divided. Witli tlie fingers the j^eritoneum in front of the artery is pushed uj) out of the way, and tlie vessel exposed with its aceomjwnying vein. Care must be taken not to injure the two large branches of the external iliac given oft" just above the inguinal (Poupart's) ligament. Branches of the external iliac are the deep epigastric and the deep circumflex iliac arteries. The Deep Epigastric (Fig. 456) arises from the external iliac just above the inguinal ligament. It passes inward and a little downward at first, then upward and inward between tlie transversalis fascia and the peritoneum to the posterior surface of the rectus muscle, continues upward, breaking into branches in the substance of the rectus, and anastomoses with the superior epigastric branch of the internal mammary. Variations.—The deep epigastric may take origin higher up from the external iliac, from any part of its course. As already noted the deej^ epigastric very often gives off the obturator artery. Surgical Anatomy.—Tlie deep epigastric artery has an important relation to inguinal hernia. The vessel in the first part of its course is situated between the two rings and will therefore be internal to an oblique hernia, and external to a direct hernia. Its position should be carefully noted in operations for hernia. The Branches of the deep epigastric are the cremasteric, pubic, and muscular branches. The cremasteric artery supplies the coverings of the spermatic cord. Outer side. Psoas magnus muscle.