678 THE NERVES. very short intracranial course it passes through the foramen rotundum, crosses the sphenomaxillary fossa, and enters the orbit through the sphenomaxillary fissure to occupy the infraorbital groove in its floor. It is here joined by the infraorbital branch of the internal maxillary artery, and together they enter the infraorbital canal to reach the face beneath the orbit, where the nerve diyides into its terminal branches. Branches.—(a) Recurrent branch. AVithin the cranium it gives a recurrent branch to the dura and middle meningeal artery. (6) The orbital branch (temporo-malar nerve) is given off in the sphenomaxil- lary fossa. It enters the orbit through the sphenomaxillary fissure, and diyides into two branches, temporal and mctlar. The temporal branch runs upward along the outer wall of the orbit, giyes a communicating filament to the lachrymal nerve, and ])assing obliquely through tlie periosteum enters the sphenomalar canal. It thus passes to the temporal fossa, where, running upward between the temporal muscle and the bone, it pierces the deep and superficial layers of the temporal fascia very obliquely, and emerges subcutaneously one inch above the zygoma, where its twigs jJerforate the orbicularis palpebrarum to the skin, communicating with the facial and auriculo- temporal nerves. The mctlar branch (ramus subcutaneus make) runs for\yard in the fat of the orbit, and pierces through the malar canal to the skin of the face oyer the malar bone. (c) The sphenopalatine branches are two short, stout twigs to Meckel's gan- glion, with which they will be described. POSTERIOR JACOBSON'S DENTAL SUPERIOR CERVICAL PLEXUS GANGLION OF THE SYMPATHETIC Fig. 640.—Dental branches of superior maxillary nerve and sphenopalatine ganglion. (Testut.l (el) The posterior superior dental nerves (Fig. 640), the last branches given off in the sphenomaxillary fossa, are usually two in number, or may arise together. Running downward on the back of the superior maxilla, in the grooves which lead to the posterior dental canals, they give fibres to the gums and buccal mucous membrane (nervuli gingivales) and then enter the.se canals to supjdy the molar teeth and antrum. (e) The middle superior dental nerve is giyen off in the hind part of the infra- orbital canal. It descends in a minute canal or groove in the outer wall of the antrum to supply the bicuspid teeth. (f) The anterior superior dental nerve commences in tlie fore part of the infra- orbital canal. It also descends in the wall of the antrum, dividing into two