EMBRYOLOGY. 110 DUCTUS ENDOLYM- PHATICUS. ANT, VERTICAL SEMICIR. CANAL HORrZONTAL SEMICIR. CANAL. UTRICULUS POST. VERTICAL /SEMICIR. CANAL. tory sac has been taking place, and the portions of the tissue inimediatelv in contact with the walls of the sac become converted into fibrous connective tissue, and so strengtlion the walls of the mem- branous ear, while the outermost portions become converted into cartilage, and later into bone, forming the periotic capsule, in whose walls, however, three membra- nous areas are left, one of these being where a canal, the ductus peri/i/mphati- ms, leads from the perilymphatic space to the surface of the bone. Between the inner wall of the cajisule (which is com- posed of dense bone, and forms what is termed the osseous lahi/finfli) and the connective tissue a layer of the mesen- chyme is left in the form of a loose connective tissue, which subsequently degenerates, leaving a space, which be- comes filled with fiuid, around the mem- branous ear. This is the perilympliatic space, which, in the cochlea, is separated into two parts by the membranous cochlea, being attached on either side to its wall, so that a section of any coil of the cochlea will show the membranous cochlea, known in anatomy as the scala meeliei, with a perilymphatic space above it, the sccihi vestibuli, and another below it, the scala tymj^ani, these two spaces communicating, however, at the apex of the cochlea. The middle ear is the remains of the first visceral cleft, the groove on the wall of the pharynx which represents the cleft becoming converted into a canal SACCULUS COCHLEA Fig. ISO.—Moflcl nt internal ear of human em brvo of about live weeks. (C. S. Minot, after W His, Jr.) by the fusion of its lijjs, the upper end of this canal being enlarged to form a cavity, the fympemic cavity, while the rest of it forms the Eustachian caned, which opens below into the pharynx. The tymjianic cavity is, however, up to birth exceedingly narrow, practically merely a slit, its walls, beneath the mucous mem- brane lining it, being largely composed of a loose gelatinous tissue, in which lie imbedded three small bones, the nud/ots, stapes, and incus. The up]ier end of Meckel's cartilage, which develops, as lias been seen, in the first branchial arch, separates from the lower portion, and forms two small bones, which are imbedded in the front wall of the tympanum, and are the malleus and incus ; while the stapes seems to be produced by the fusion of two distinct parts. Its flat portion,