THE EIGHTH OR A VDITOR Y NER VE. 589 The inframandibular branch ha.s already been sufficiently described. {l!^ote.—The fact that the frontalis, orbicularis palpebrarum, and corrugator supercilii, escape in cortical facial paralysis, furnishes clinical evidence of a con- nection between the facial nerve and the oculo-motor nucleus, which probably takes place through the posterior longitudinal bundle. The association of the movements of the lips and tongue, and the involvement of the orbicularis oris in bulbar paralvsis suggest that this muscle is supplied from the hypoglossal (twelfth) nucleus. This is probablv ettected by a communication from the nucleus of the twelfth to the facial nerve through the posterior longitudinal fasciculus.) The Eig-hth or Auditory Nerve. Nucleus of the Eighth or Auditory Nerve (Fig. 646).—The auditory nerve springs from the lower border of the pons, just external to the facial, by two bundles. The more lateral or posterior of these is mainly distributed to the AUDITORY NERVE Fig. 646.—Distribution of the auditory nerve. (Semidiagrammatic.) (Testut.) cochlea, and is regarded as the true nerve of hearing; the mesial or anterior bundle supplies the semicircular canals (except the posterior) and its function is to convey the sense of equilibrium. As these roots plunge into the pons, they separate so as to pass one on each side of the restiform bodv. The lateral or cochlear root is divisible into several parts. The outer fibres pass dorsally along the outer side of the restiform bodv, and enclose a large number of cells, similar to those of a spinal ganglion, which form the f/anglion of the cochlear root. Thence fibres pass dorsally to end in the dorsal nucleus and stri« medullares. The more mesial fibres of the cochlear root come into relation with a triangular group of cells, -which lies ventral to the restiform body and forms the accessory or ventral auditory nucleus. Other fibres pass bv the trapezium to the superior olive of the same and opposite sides. It is also connected witli the flocculus. The mesial or vestibular root passes to the inner side of the restiform body, between it and the ascending root of the fifth nerve. AVhen it reaches the dorsomesial side of the restiform bodv, most of its fibres bend caudallv, and run