116 THE BONES. THE CERVICAL GROUP. The tifpical cervical verfehrcv (from tlie third to the sixtli, inclusive) (Fig. 133) are especially characterized by the foramina in the transverse processes. The centnuii, or bodt/, is small, oval, and COSTO-TRANS- VERSE FORAMEN COSTAL PROCESS. TRANSVERSE PROCESS. Fig. 133.—Cervical vertebra, viewed from above (Testut.) transversely elonijated. Its upper sur- face is concave transversely, due to the elevation of its lateral margins into lips which articulate with the roimded lateral margins of the lower surface of the vertebra above. The lower ventral margin projects downward, so as to overlap the rounded ventral margin of the upjier surface of the vertelira below. The depth of the body is equal in front and l)eliind. The pedicles are directed obliquely outward and backward from about midway between the upper and lower borders of the body. The lamince are long, nari^ow, and more or less flattened from above downward. The sjnnous process is short, bifid at the extremity, and nearly horizontal. The trcmsrerse processes, directed outward and forward, are seen to be rather short, and their bifid extremities present ventral and dorsal tubercles. Its base is perforated hv the costo-transverse foramen, which transmits the vertebral artery and vein in the upper six vertebraj, and which divides the base into two roots. The dorsal root springs from the junction of the pedicles and laminje, like the thoracic trans- verse processes ; the ventral root springs from the side of the body, correspond- ing in position to the vertebi'al end of a rib. It is a vestigial rib (costa), and is called the costal process. The superior articular processes look upward and some- what backward, the inferior downward and somewhat forward. The foramen is triangular, and larger than in the other regions. Peculiar Cervical Vertebrae.— These are the first, second, and seventh. The peculiarities of the first and second are such as to allow the freest movement of the head on the spinal column which is consistent with the safety of the spinal cord. The atlas or first cervical vertebra (Fig. 134) lacks a Ixxly and spinous process, and forms a ring consisting of two arcJies, ventral and dorsal, connecting two lateral masses. The hocli/ has become separated from the atlas and ankylosed to the axis as the odontoid process. The ventrcd arch, one-fifth of the ring, pre- sents in the median line in front a small tubercle for muscular and ligamentous attachment, and behind a round facet for articulation with the odontoid ])rocess. The dorsal arch, two-fifths of the ring, has a median tubercle behind, the i-iidi- ment of a spinous process, which, if present, would interfere with the rotation between the atlas and axis. On its upper surface, at the junction with the lateral mass, is a deep groove, sometimes a foramen, for the passage of the vertebral artery and the first spinal nerve. The groove or notch on the under surface, for : the second spinal nerve, is also behind the articular process, while the lower nerves pass out in front of the articular processes. The lateral masses present aliove two oval, elongated, articular surfaces looking upward and inward, and diverging behind. These articulate with the condyles of the occipital l)()ne and permit the nodding movements of the head. Transverse grooves may divide these surfaces COSTO-TRANS VERSE FORAME VENTRAL ARCH. TRANSVERSE PROCESS. Fig. 134.—The atlas, viewed from above. (Testut.)