THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 700 the palate bones, which, immovably united and bordered in front and laterally by the drooping alveolar process, make a flattened vault of horse-shoe shape. Mucous membrane, smooth, tough, and continuous with that of the gums, lines the roof, being closely adherent to the periosteum at the alveolar margin and mid line ; but, where such attachment does not exist, there is a comj)act layer of racemose glands, called palatine glands, resembling the salivary, and embedded in areolar tissue, which hugs the periosteum. Each of these glands sends its duct through the mucosa, so that the latter is plentifully dotted with their minute openings. The surface is roughened, especially in front, with low, ol)liquely transverse ridges, has numerous small jiapillte, and dis])lays a median rai>he, at whose ante- rior end is a tubercle, which marks the inferior orifice of the anterior palatine canal. The Soft Palate (Fig. 746). Attached to the hind end of the hard palate, and drooping obliquely back- ward from it with perfect continuity of surface, is the soft palate {jjalatum molle), also called the velum pendulum palati (" pendulous veil of the palate"), which f :-. extends from side to side, and terminates I i below in an arched border, from the centre of Avhich dangles a teat-like process, the uvula (" little grape"). From the base of the uvula on each side the lower edge of the velum is, as it were, split, one part going outward, downward, and forward to the side of the tongue, the other outward, downward and backward to the side of the pharynx, leaving between them on the side wall of the region a triangular recess with its base toward the tongue. The former ridge is the anterior pAllar of the palate, the latter the posterior pillar. The irregular opening bounded by the anterior pillars and the dorsum of the tongue is the isthmus of the fauces, the aperture by which the month communicates with the pharynx. The front (antero-inferior) surface, therefore, of the velum marks the posterior limit of the mouth, and all of the cavity behind this plane belongs to the pliarynx. The free edges of the posterior pillars are nearer together than are those of the anterior pair, and hence both sets are seen distinctly, if the mouth is widely opened, and the tongue depressed. Structure of the Soft Palate.—The soft ]ialate is built upon a fibrous frame- work, which hangs down from the hind border of the hard palate. Into this are inserted various muscles, which constitute the bulk of the organ. Mucous mem- brane covers every part of it, that visible from in front being like the buccal, smooth, rosy, covered with stratified, flattened epithelium, while that on the opjjo- site surfoce resembles the nasal mucous membrane, being uneven, red, and clothed with ciliated, cylindrical ejMthclinm, except at its lowest part, where the cells are like those in front. Beneath the mucosa are many glands, the majority being on the oral side, and continuous with those of the hard palate. During swallowing the veil is lifted backward to the hind wall of the pharynx ; but in suction it is drawn down to the tongue. In articulation it is made to assume every attitude between these extremes. Fig. 746.—The soft palate and tonsillar re- gions. (Testut.)