THE LYMPHATIC SYSTE3I. 488 or notch, called the hilum, at which its arteries enter, and its veins and efferent vessels emerge. The capsule of the node is mainly composed of white tilu-ous tissue, but has a slight admixture of smooth muscular tissue. From its inner surface trabeculce ("little beams") project toward the centre of the node, these being broad and shelf-like at the periphery, which is called the cortex ("bark"), but narrow and like slender rafters in the central portion, the medulla (" pith"). In no part are the spaces which these enclose completely circumscribed, and thus, as in areolar tissue, there is free intercommunication be- tween them. The irregular spaces are occupied by a rather solid mass of which, however, does not quite fill tliem, as it never touches the capsule and trabecuke, but leaves a narrow interval between itself and them. This o])en interval, which apjiears in a section of the node like a channel, is the lymjjh simis, and is crossed by a network of delicate adenoid reticular tissue, which is continuous on the one hand with the trabcculse or capsule, and on the other with a still finer ]ilexus of the same character, Avhich per- vades the pulp and forms the framework upon M hich the essential constituents of the pulp are supported. The pulp or proper substance of the node is a mass of leucocytes, held together by the fine reticulum just mentioned. The cells at the periphery of the collection are in a condition of multiplication by karyokinesis, and it is believed that the newlv formed cells are continually liberated into the lym])h sinus. The lymphadenoid tissue is well supplied with blood- vessels. The lymph simis is a complicated series of freely com- municating passages into which a number of lymph- vessels pour their contents, and from which a smaller number of lymph-vessels receive lymph. The inner coat of the entering (aferenf) and emerging {efferent) vessels is continuous with the epithelial lining of the lym])h sinus and the epithelial covering of the trabcculse which traverse it. Thus there is no breach in the continuity of the surface over which the lymph flows, whether it is in the vessels or in the channels of the nodes. The nodes, with the exception of the superficial inguinal, are situated beneath the deep fascia, though not always under its immediate covering. All told there may be nearly 700 nodes, of which the greatest part are in the chest- and bellv-cavities. The face and neck have a considerable number, the limbs a few, and the brain-case none. In size they vary from that of a large bean to such dimiuutiveness that they escape gross observation, unless they have become enlarged by disease. In the groin they can easily be felt, but not in the axilla. Those of very small size are called nodules. As age creeps on, the lym])hatic tissues undergo senile atrophy. The thymus gland, whose nature is essentially lymphatic, diminishes and generally entirely disap]iears before adult life. The ordinary lymph-nodes gradually shrink in old age, though they do not altogether vanish, and all of the other lymphatic struct- ures pursue a simihir degenerative course. The effect of Ivmphadeuoid tissue upon the lymph which passes through it is very marked. For exam]ilc, the lymph which enters a node has fewer cor2)Uscles and less all)uminoid material than that which flows out of it. We thus see that the influence of the node is toward the enrichment of tlie lymph. Extraneous matters absorbed by the lymph-vessels from the juice-channels are caught in the reticular tissue, which crosses the sinus, and are detained temporarily or even permanently. When these particles are bacteria they are liable to set up patho- FiG. 617.—A lymph-node with its afferent and efl'erent vessels. (Testut.)