CARDIAC 3IUSCULAR TISSUE. 61 like a coarse brush, tlie fibrils standing for the bristles (Fig. 54). When the fibre has been hardened by certain reagents, it will occasionally show a cross-cleavage, by which it is divided into discs (Fig. 55). Upon the inner surface of the sarcolemma are scattered a number of oval nuclei, the mmde-corpmcles (Fig. 56), so nnobtrusive that they generally escape observation unless reagents are used in the examination. They are regarded as nucleated accumulations of the sarcoplasm. In a fibre are many groups of fibrils, each collection being called a rimscle- column. The filn'es are aggregated in bundles (fasdcali), and the bundles are assembled in the contractile portion of the muscle. The fibres may be 2 inches long and ^^g- inch thick, or only a tenth part of these measurements. In muscles or fiisciculi whose length is greater than that of their component fibres the latter are joined to each other end to end. Fil)res commonly do not branch ; but in some of the lingual and facial muscles terminal divisions may be observed. The fasciculi, as a rule, run from one end to the other of the contractile part of a muscle ; but exceptions occur in double-bellied muscles and in others which have a tendinous interruption of the muscular continuity. The fasciculi, from the closeness with which they are packed, have flattened sides, and are thus more or less prismoid. As has been said above, each fibre has, as its true and perfect investment, the sarcolemma. Between the fibres is a delicate areolar tissue continuous with a thicker layer of the same, which sheathes the fasciculi ; and this is merely an inward prolongation of a still more pronounced _ lamina which coats the entire muscle. The outer tunic (Fig. 57) of the muscle is called epunysium (" upon muscle"); the sheaths of the bundles constitute the perimysium (" around muscle "); and the tissue between the fibres is the endomys- ium ("within muscle"). All of these are con- tinuous, each with the others, and all are composed of areolar tissue. Fibres which end in tendon come to it either in line with its axis or obliipiely to it. The sar- colemma of the end of the fibre is very closely attached to the tendon, and thei'e is a continuity of the areolar tissue between the fasciculi of the muscle and that between the bundles of the tendon. In these ways the two ])arts of the muscle are so firmly united that their separation by violence is extremely rare. The blood-vessels course between the fibres in the areolar tissue, making a network of long meshes. Lymph- atics, also, are numerous in the areolar tissue, and the nerves of the muscle are abundant. Cardiac Muscular Tissue. The muscular tissue of the heart has ])eculiarities, wliich ally it to the plain muscular tissue on the one hand and to the cross-striped on the other. It is like the former in being composed of nucleated cells, and in being beyond the control of the will; it resembles the latter in being cross-striped, and in presenting in a mass a color similar to that of voluntary muscle. The cells (Fig. 58) are short, branched at one end, cross-striped (though with less regularity and ))lainness than in the case of ordinary striated muscle), and are not fur- nished with sarcolemma. The cells are connected with their Fig. 57.—Sheaths of rrnjscular tis- sue in cross-section. The muscnlar tis- sue does not appear, but is rci.icscnti fl by the spaces between the |i.'iniii..i]s. Outside of the entire muscle is tiunn/x- iinii: l.i tween the bundles is pirimya- iIIIII: l.rtucen the fibres is endomysuim— the liisi shdwn In two areas at the right. Diagrammatic. (¥. H. G.) Fig. 58.—Cell muscular tissue. of cardiac (Testut.)