153 THE FEMim. from its dorso-superior angle. The lower limit of this surface and the nj^per extent of the vastus externus are marked by a horizontal line, which, in front of the trochanter, ascends to an eminence, the Uihcrde, at the junction of the tro- chanter with the neck. Internal to the trochanter and between it and the neek is the dee}) digital or trochanteric J'osm, which receives the tendon of the obturator externus. Above and in front of this fossa the o])turator intcrnus and the gemelli are attached. Behind the latter the pyriformis is attached to the narrow free upper border. The gluteus minimus is inserted upon the anterior border, while the thick, rounded j)oderior border is continuous with the posterior intertrochanteric line, which runs downward and inwaixl to the small trochanter and limits the neck behind. The small trochanter, receiving the insertion of the ilio-psoas, projects as { a pyramidal eminence from the dorso-iuternal aspect, where the lower end of the neck joins the shaft. The anterior intertrochemteric live limits the neck in front, and attaches the thickened front part of the capsular ligament. It is the upper part of the spiral line, which runs from the tubercle of the femur down- ward and inward to the linea aspera, passing a little in front of the small tro- j chanter. The shaft, arched convexly foi'ward, is nearly cylindrical, except for a flattening I in front and a prominent buttress-ridge, the linea asjiera (" rough line ") behind ; I so that three rather indistinct surfaces, a ventral and two lateral, may be dis- I tinguished, which are covered by the three vasti muscles. The shaft exjiands as I it approaches the lower extremity. The linea aspjera- presents in the central third ; two lips and a rough, narrow interval often called the middle lip. In the upper I third the external lip extends up to the great trochanter as the prominent ghdecd ridge for the gluteus maximus. The internal lip is continuous with the spiral I line, while a third line, giving insertion to the pectineus, ascends to the small trochanter from the intermediate space. Inferiorly the two lips diverge, and extend to the condyles as the external and internal condylar ridges, enclosing a flat triangular area, the floor of the upper part of the popliteal space. The inner ridge is interrupted by the crossing of the femoral vessels in the upper part, and ends below in the sharp adductor tubercle, to which the lowest fibres of the adductor magnus are attached. The caned of the mdrient artery is directed upward in the linea aspera a little above its centre. The follow'ing muscles, besides those 'already mentioned, are attached to the linea aspera and its prolongations : To the inner lip is attached the vastus internus, and to its lower two-thirds the adduc- :tor longus ; to the outer lij) the vastus externus ; and to its lower two-thirds and the extei'nal condylar ridge the short head of the bicc])s. The adductor magnus is inserted below into the inner condylar ridge and the adductor tubercle, above, just internal to the gluteal ridge, as far as the quadratus femoris, and in the mid- dle third to the intermediate space. The adductor brevis is attached to the upper third of the intermediate space below and external to the jjectineus. A faint line, the linea quadrcdi, for insertion of the quadratus femoris, is sometimes visible, and passes upward from the outer side of the small trochanter to the middle of the posterior intertroclianteric line, where the tubercle of the ejuadratus is sometimes 5een. Part of the iliacus is attached to an area below the small trochanter, inter- aal to the pectineus. The lower extremity presents two condyles, external and internal, most promi- lent behind, where they are separated by the deep intercondylar notch, while in ront they are united by the trochlear (articular) surface for the patella. The part )f the trochlea external to its vertical groove is the larger, and is very prominent ilong its outer edge, serving to resist the tendency to outward dislocation of the )atella. Continuous with the trochlea are the cartilage-clad lower and dor- al surfaces of the condyles, which, though of different curvatures in different i»arts, articulate with the tibia. Tlie external condyle is the broader, the internal he narrower and the more prominent laterally and behind, while in front it bends utward to the patellar surface. In the natural or oblique position of the bone he lower surfaces of the two condyles are in the same plane; but if held verti-