579 THE FIFTH OR TRIFACIAL NERVE. Ijranches : a nasal branch whicli supjilies the mucous membrane of the anterior part of the inferior meatus and floor of the nasal fossa ; and a dental branch to the incisor and canine teeth. These three dental nerves form loops fthe superior dental plexus) in the minute canals provided for them in the maxilla, and from the loops filaments pass to the foramina at the tips of the fangs, and supply the dental pulp. iff) Infraorbital Nerve.—From the time the maxillary nerve enters theinfra- orljital canal it is called the infraorbital nerve, and under that name it emerges on the face, where it lies deeply under cover of the levator labii snperioris proprius. Here it divides into seven or more branches. Two of these, called inferior pal- pebral, turn upward to the skin and conjunctiva of the lower eyelids ; two or three pass inward between the fibres of the levator labii snperioris alaeque nasi to the side of the nose (lateral nasal); and three or four superior labial l^ranches run downward, piercing the fil:>res of the elevators of the upper lip and angle of the mouth to the skin of the lips and cheek, and sending large twigs to the mucous membrane. These infraorbital nerves communicating with the facial form the infra- orbital plexus. The Sphenopalatine or Meckel's Ganglion (Figs. 640, 641).—The sphenopala- tine, or Meclrel's ffanfflion, is a small, reddish, triangular body, one-fifth of an inch in its long diameter, and flattened at the sides. It is situated in the npper part of the sphenomaxillary fjssa, just under the superior maxillary nerve, where it is embedded in fat and surrounded by the terminal branches of the internal max- illary artery. Only its posterior segment contains nerve-cells. Its sensory root is represented by two short, stout nerves, which attach its two superior angles to the superior maxillary nerve, forming its sphenopedatine breincher.. The greater part of these roots passes on without interruption in ganglion-cells into the palatine, nasal, and pharyngeal branches of the ganglion. Its motor rind sympathetic roots are contained in the Vidian nerve. The Vidian Nerve is a compound nerve, formed ])y the junction of the great superficial and grent deep petrosed nerves. Tracing the Vidian nerve backward to its_ sources, it leaves the postero-superior angle of the ganglion, passes through the Vidian canal (accompanied by the artery of the same name) in which it gives ofi" small twigs to the back of the nose and pharynx, and divides into two branches.