THE OS PUBIS. 149 The Os Pubis. The ossa pubis (" bones of the pubic") form the front wall of the pelvis. Each consists of a flat, quadrate body, situated internally and joined with the ilium and ischium, respectively, by two rami, the horizontal and descending. The ven- tral surface of the body and of the descending ramus, continuous with it, is rough for the origin of muscles. The corresponding dorsal or pelvic surface is smooth. From the ventral surface arise the obturator externus, the gracilis, and the three adductors ; from the dorsal surface, the obturator internus, levator ani, compressor urethrje, erector penis, and the crus penis. The inner border of the combined jmbic and. ischiatic rami of the two sides, forming the pubic arch, is rough and more or less everted, especially in the female. The outer border of the body and descending 7-amus is narrow, and bounds the obturator foramen. The iioier border of the pubic body presents an elongated, oval surface which is joined by cartilage to the oppo- site bone, forming the symphysis pubis. The broad, rough upper border or pubic crest stretches from the upper end of the symphysis, the angle, outward to the prominent spiiie of tJie os pubis. To the crest are attached the rectus abdominis and pyramidalis and the conjoined tendon ; to the spine, the inguinal (Poupart's) ligament. The horizontal ramus extends from the l)ody to the ilium at the ilio- pectineal eminence, and expands at its outer end to form the ventral fifth of the acetabulum. More or less triangular on section, its upper border is the pubic portion of the ilio-pectineal line, to which Giml)ernat's ligament and a part of the conjoined tendon are attached internally. The triangular surface in front of this line gives origin to the pectineus, and is bounded below by the jirominent obturator crest, which extends from the pubic spine to the cotyloid notch. The under sur- face bounds the obturator foramen sujjeriorly, and presents externally the deep oblique obturator groove for the obturator vessels and nerve. The acetabulum (" small cuj>"), or cotyloid cavity, is a nearly hemispherical cavity which looks outward, downward, and forward. It consists of a horseshoe-shaped marginal artic- ular portion, which lodges the femoral head, and a central and inferior depressed, non-artic- ular portion, which lodges a mass of fat. The upper part of the margin is the stoutest and most prominent; the lower part is deficient close to the obturator foramen, forming the cotyloid 7iotch, which is bridged across by the transverse ligament, forming the cotyloid fora- men for the passage of a nerve and vessels into the joint and to the head of the femur. To the margin of the articular portion the cotyloid iligament is attached, deepening the cavity so as to be more than a hemisphere, and outside of this the capsular ligament arises. The obturator or thyroid foramen, below and internal to the acetalnilum, is formed by and situated between the ischium and os pubis. It is closed by the fibrous obturator membrane, which is attached to its margins except near the groove for the obturator vessels and nerve, in its upper margin. In the female it is broad and triangular, in the male oval and elongated downward and backward. The iliac crest, pubic si)ine, tuberosity of the ischium, and combined rami of the OS pubis and ischium (bounding the perineum) can be felt subcutaneously. The anterior superior iliac spine and the pubic sjMue are of great importance as andmarks. The hip-bone is much thickened along the lines of greatest pressure —I. e., between the auricular surface and the upper j)art of the acetabulum and uberosity of the ischium. There is a thick ridge running from the acetabulum 0 the crest, but the centres of the iliac fossa and of the acetabulum are both thin. Fig. 168.—Development of the hip-bone, showing the union of the three portions in the acetaliulum. (Testut.)