THE TWELFTH OR HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE. 597 of the nucleus, and running ventrally and a little outward through the inferior olive (with which, however, they have no connection) emerge in a linear series of from ten to twelve fasciculi along the groove between the olive and anterior pyramid. Connections of the Hypoglossal.—Its main connections are as follow : 1. Com- missural fibres join the nuclei of the two sides; 2. Motor fibres pass from the nucleus of the hypoglossal by the posterior longitudinal bundle to join the pars accessoria ad vagum and the genu of the facial nerve of the same side ; 3. Fibres pass to the opposite posterior longitudinal bundle. The roots of the twelfth nerve pass outward above the vertebral artery, and ojDposite the anterior condylar foramen pierce the dura through two distinct fora- mina in two bundles. In its passage through this foramen the two bundles unite to form one trunk, which at first lies very deeply on the inner side of the internal carotid artery and pueumogastric nerve. It descends in a spiral manner round the trunk-ganglion of the latter nerve, and between the internal jugular vein and internal carotid artery, being closely united to the ganglion by fibrous tissue, and receiving some communicating branches from it. It now appears at the lower border of the digastric muscle, and curves forward under the occipital artery (by the sternomastoid branch of which vessel it is kept in place) and across the exter- nal carotid artery. It reaches the upper border of the great cornu of the hyoid bone, where it lies on the middle constrictor of the pharynx and above the lingual artery. Passing under cover of the posterior belly of the digastric and the stylohyoid muscles, it lies on the hyoglossus muscle just above the central tendon of the digastric. Here it is accompanied by the lingual vein, and is separated from the lingual artery by the hyoglossus. Passing beneath the mylohyoid, it curves upward on the genioglossus, communicating in a loop witli the lingual nerve and terminating beneath the tip of the tongue. The branches of this nerve are divisible into two sets, namely, true hypoglossal branches which are distributed exclusively to the extrinsic and intrinsic muscles of the tongue, and branches which are really derived from the cervical plexus, and are only adherent to the hypoglossal nerve for some part of their course. True JIypoglossal Branches.—(a) Communicating branches unite the hypoglossal nerve with the trunk-ganglion of the vagus and superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and in a manner to be explained later, with the loop between the first and second cervical nerves. At the tip of the tongue it communicates with the lingual nerve, and a small twig, called the lingual branch of the vagus, joins it from the pharyngeal plexus. (6) The meningeal branch is given oif in the anterior condylar foramen, and enters the cranium to supply the dura round the foramen magnum and diploe of the occipital bone. (c) Muscular branches are distributed beneath the mylohyoid to the hyoglossus, styloglossus, and genioglossus, and also to the intrinsic muscles of the tongue. BRAJfCHES OF THE CeRVICAL PlEXUS ADHERENT TO OR ASSOCIATED \yiTH THE Hypoglossal Nerve (Fig. 656).—A considerable branch from the loop between the first and second cervical nerves joins the hypoglossal just beneath the base of the cranium. It is incorporated with the hy]joglossal nerve till it winds round the occipital artery, where part of the cervical branch leaves the hypoglossal under the name of the descendens hypoglossi. A smaller branch is given ofF lower down to supply the thyrohyoid muscle, and the remainder of this cervical nerve accompanies the hypoglossal under the mylohyoid to supply the geniohyoid muscle. The descendens hypoglossi springs from the trunk of the twelfth nerve where it crosses the occipital artery, and passes downward and a little forward on the sheath of the great vessels and beneath the sternomastoid for a variable distance, but usually to nearly on a level with the cricoid cartilage. Here it forms a loop with the ramus cervicalis descendens (communicans hypoglossi ), Avhich is formed by the union of two branches from the second and third cervical nerves respectively.