96 EMBRYOLOGY. side disappears, but persists on the left side to form the duQixis artefiosus, uniting the pulmonary artery with the dorsal aorta—a connection functional for the passage of blood up to birth, but aborting later. RIGHT LEFT Pig. 109—Anrtic arches,early arrange- Fig. 110.—Aortic arches, final condition. (After Rathke ) ment. (After Kathke.) Of the venous system it has already been seen that there is a jiair of vitelline veins coming from the yolk-sac and opening into the venous end of the embryonic heart. In addition to these, other veins are develojjed at an early period, which unite together and with the vitelline veins before entering the heart, forming a sinus venosus, which later is taken up into the right auricle. Of these veins there are, first, the umbilical veins, which bring back the blood from the placenta, enter- ing the body of the embryo at the umbilicus (Fig. 111). The left umbilical vein ABC Fig. 111.—Development of the veins: ^.primitive condition, bilateral symmetry; B, formation of portal sy.stem : C, final condition ; diagrammatic. 1, sinus venosus; 2, right ductus Cuvieri; 2', left ductus Cuvieri ;3, right jugular vein ; 3', left jugular vein ; 4, cardinal vein; 4', vena azygos major: 5, vitelline vein; 6, umbilical vein; 6', umbilical vein in cord ; 7, portal vein ; 8, liver; 9, ductus venosus; 10, vena cava inferior; 11, common iliac vein; 12, vena hemiazygos; 13, left brachio-cephalic vein; 14, coronary sinus; 15, veins of lower limbs. Atrophied parts in broken lines. (Testut.) degenerates later almost entirely, but the right passes forward in the ventral mid- line of the abdomen to the under surface of the liver, to which it distributes blood, continuing onward, however, to open into the sinus venosus. During embryonic life this vein increases in size, the vitelline veins, on the other hand, becoming smaller and, forming connections Avith one another, eventually giving rise to the portal vein. After birth, however, as soon as the placental circulation ceases, the