THE BONES. By GEORGE WOOLSEY. MB M mm THE adult human skeleton consists of a number^ of honcn, Avith a small amount of cartilage in some parts, where they are joined or articulated with one another. The bones, as they are generally studied after maceration and drying, are composed of mineral or earthy salts, principally phosj^hate and carbonate of lirae.^ The soft organic parts, of which a prepared bone is deprived, consist partly of the fibrous and vascular periodeinii, which covers the surface and is continuous with the connecting liga- ments, and the medulla or marrow, which fills thi' internal cavities. The m&in functions of bones are tf) afford a solid frame- work, to support softer parts, to protect delicate organs, and to serve for the attachment and leverage of muscles which produce the different movements. To serve these ditFerent purposes bones must (lifter in tlieir ouhvard form, according to which we distinguish—(1) Love/ hones, con- sisting of a shaft or diaphysis and two expanded extremi- ties or epiphyses, as in the limbs. They afford support and leverage for motion, and are usually somewhat curved in one or two directions, thus securing greater strength and elasticity ; (2) Flett hones, as in the pelvis, scapula, and the roof of the skull, affording protection and support to the contained parts, and also muscular attachment; (3) Short bones, as in the wrist and ankle, where strength com- bined with free motion is required; (4) Irregular or mixed hones, like the vertebrpe and many of the bones of the skull. Internal Arrangement.—On longitudinal section of a long bone (Fig. 132) notice that there is an outer layer of hard, compact suhsteuice, varying in thickness and enclosing 'a central or medullary cavity, in the shaft of the bone, ajid porous, s^^ongy QY cancellous bony tissue at the extremities. In the recent state the medullary cavity is filled with yel- low or fatty marrow, and the cavities of the cancellous [tissue with red marrow. Short, flat, and irregular bones have an outer layer of comjiact substance, enclosing can- cellous tissue containing red marrow. The cancellous tissue at the ends of long bones and in other bones bearing- pressure is so arranged that its bony lamelhe are ]n-incipally directed in the lines of pressure or of muscuilar tension. The porosity or hoUowness of bones serves to combine requisite size and strengtli with lightness. Development of Bones.—In the early end^ryo the bones are preformed either ' Exclusive of the ossicles of the ears, the teeth, and the Wormian bones, there are 200 bones, of vhich 64 are in the upper extremity, 62 in the lower, and 74 in the trunk, distributed as follows: the vertebral column 26, the skull 22, the ribs and sternum 25, and the hyoid bone 1. ^ Eespectively 51 per cent, and 11 per cent, of the solids of fresh bone. S 113 my Fig. 132.—The longitudi- nal section of a long bone.