596 THE NERVES. (/) (Esophageal Branches.—Above the pulnionarv plexus many small twigs are distributed to the resojjhagus both from the trunk of tlie vagus and from its recurrent laryngeal branch. Below that point the right and left vagi unite in forming a long-meshed plexus round the tube, from which its muscular and mucous coats get their nerve supply. (j) Abdominal Branches.—Thera*;;;.? distributes fibres all over the front of the stomach, largo branches accompanying the coronary artery on its small curvature, and so joining the hepatic plexus of the sympathetic. The r'ujht var/us supplies the posterior surface of the stomach, sending branches to the cceliac, splenic, and left renal plexuses of the sympathetic. The Fharipigca/ F/c.rua.—Two or three twigs from the superior cervical gang- lion of the sympathetic, the pharyngeal branches of the glossopharyngeal and vagus, and branches from the external and recurrent laryngeal nerves, unite in forming a plexus on the surface of the constrictors of the pharynx, from which the pharyngeal muscles and mucous membrane are supplied, as well as the levator palati and azygos uvulae. The motor nerves are derived from the pars accessoria. The Eleventh or Spinal Accessory Nerve. The eleventh nerve (Fig. 647) consists of two parts, an accessory/ portion to the pneumor/aHtric (pars accessoria ad vagum) and a spinal portion (pars spinalis). The Accessory Portion is formed by some four or five fasciculi, which spring from the medulla in series with the ^Jneumogastric roots. They unite to form a trunk which, with the spinal portion, to which it is united by some fibres or with which it may be entirely joined for a short distance, leaves the cranium iu the same sheath of dura with the pneumogastric. In the jugular foramen it sends fibres to the root-ganglion of the vagus, and then partly joins the trunk- ganglion of that nerve ; but niany of its fibres are continued over the surface of the trunk-ganglit)n into the pharyngeal and superior laryngeal nerves, and down the vagus trunk itself into the recui*rent laryngeal nerve. It will be seen that most of the motor fibres of the pneumogastric are derived from its accessory portion. The Spinal Portion of the spinal accessory arises by a long series of roots from the lateral column of the spinal cord extending as low as the sixth or seventh cervical nerve-roots. They issue from the lateral column between the attachment of the ligamentum denticulatum and the posterior nerve-roots, approaching closer to the latter as they ascend. They join to form an ascending trunk, which enters the cranium, and unites wholly or partly with the accessory portion ; but, beneath the jugular foramen, leaves the pars accessoria and bends acutely backward, usually superficially to the internal jugular vein, to enter the deep surface of the sternomastoid muscle, which it sujiplies, and where it com- municates with a branch from the second cervical nerve. Emerging from the posterior border of the sternomastoid, it crosses the posterior triangle of the neck obliquely to end under the trapezius, a short distance above the clavicle. On the deep surface of the trapezius it is joined by fibres from the third and fourth cervical nerves, thus forming the subtrapezial plexus, from which that muscle is supplied. The Twelfth or Hypoglossal Nerve (Fig. 644). The twelfth or hypoglossal ("under the tongue ") nerve is exclusively motor in function, and its nucleus lies in series with those of the third, fourth, and sixth nerves. Its upper part lies close to the floor of tlie fourth ventricle near the median sulcus in the elevation known as the trigonum hypoglossi; loM'er down it lies ventro-lateral to the central canal. It extends the Avhole length of the oblongata, and its cells are large and multipolar like those of the anterior horn. The fibres spring in two vertical series of small bundles from the ventral aspect