THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 840 and just in front of the vagina. Directly behind it there is an elevation of mucous membrane, the vaginal tubercle, -which serves as a guide to the introduction of a catheter. The Inferior Orifice of the Vagina (introitus vac/vnce), when the hymen has been removed, is elliptical in outline. Its diameters are much greater in women who have borne children than in the nulliparous. The Hymen {" a membrane") (Fig. 900) is placed at the vulvo-vaginal junction, narrowing to a greater or less degree the inferior vaginal orilice. It is composed CRESCENTIC FRINGED BILABIAL BIPERFORATE CRIBRIFORM Fig. 900.—Varieties of hymen. (Testut after Roze.) of a double fold of mucous membrane, between the layers of which is found connective tissue, rich in elastic fibres. In sha]ie it varies widely, the commonest forms being the folciform and the annular. In the former the hymen is semi- lunar in outline, with the concavity looking forward ; in the latter a complete ring, usually widest posteriorly, surrounds the opening. Sometimes it forms a complete septum (imperforate hymen) or has many small openings (cribriform). The hymen is usually torn during the first coition, but may, when very elastic, escape rupture. After parturition there remain of it only some slight rounded elevations, the cenmnciila?m,yrtifonnef< ("little masses of flesh like myrtle-berries"), which occui)y the site of its attached border. The navicular fossa is that portion of the interlabial space, which lies behind the entrance to the vagina. It is bounded sujx'rficially by the fourchette, deeply by the superficial surface of the hymen. Erectile Organs. The erectile organs belonging to the vulva are the clitoris and the bulbs of the vagina. The Clitoris, about one inch in length, is situated at the apex of the vestibule, between the anterior extremities of the nyniphje. It is the homologue of the penis, but has no corpus spongiosum, and no urethra. The two ctu'pora cavernosa, of which it is mainlv composed, are similar in minute structure to those of the male. Diverging behind, they constitute the crura, which are attached to the ischio-pubic rami superficial to the triangular ligament, and covered hy the ischio- cavernosi (erectores clitoridis) muscles. In front the corpora cavernosa unite to form the body of the clitoris, the septum pectiniforme between them being imperfect. Their united distal extremities are surmounted hy a glans, composed of very sensitive, spongy, erectile tisstie. The clitoris has a prepuce and a frenum, both derived from the nympha:', and is also provided with a suspensory ligament. It is supplied with helicine arteries and numerous anastomosing veins.