622 THE NEB VES. sending a branch to join the first lumbar nerve, passes outward beneath the exter- nal arcuate ligament of the diaphragm and enters the abdomen. It runs along the lower border of the last rib, and enters the space between the transversalis and internal oblique, and is afterward arranged as one of the lower intereostals. Its lateral cutaneous branch remains undivided and is distributed to the gluteal region a little behind the anterior superior iliac spine. The muscles supplied by the intercostal nerves are the levatores costarum, serrati posteriores, intereostals, triangularis sterni, transversalis abdominis, exter- nal and internal oblique, rectus, and pyramidalis. THE LUMBAR NERVES. The anterior divisions of the five lumbar nerves increase in size from above downward. They communicate with the sympathetic by rami communicantes which reach them by running along the sides of the lumbar artei'ies under the fibrous arches from which the psoas muscle takes origin. Of these five nerves the upper three, with a communication from the twelfth thoracic and a considerable part f)f the fourth lumbar nerve, from the lumbar ph xits, and the rest of the fourth lumbar nerve, with the whole of the fifth, join the sacral nerves in forming tiie sacral plexus. The Lumbar Plexus (Fig. 671). This plexus is found embedded in the substance of the psoas muscle, which must be removed piece by piece for its proper demonstration. FROM LAST THORACIC FIRST LUMBAR SECOND LU^ylBAR THIRD LUMBAR FOURTH LUMBAR TO ILIACUSt— . Fig. ri71.—rinn of lumbar plexus. (W. Keiller.) A glance at the diagram will show its general constitution. From the first hmbar nerve spring the iliohypogastrie and ilio'mgwinal nerves, from the first and second the genitoerural, from the second and ihird comes the external cutaneom, while large sections of the second, third, and fourth nerves foi-m the anterior i crurrd, and smaller more anterior sections of the same trunks unite to form ! the obturator nerve. The accessory obturator is a small, inc(jnstant branch derived from the third and fourth nerves,' and branches sujiply the j)Soas and quadratus j lumborum from nearly all the nerves in a somewhat irregular manner. _ ' Regarding their relations to the psoas muscle, the iliohypogastric, ilioinguinal, external cutaneous, and anterior crural nerves emerge from its outer border, the last nerve running down its outer side to pass under the inguinal (Poupart sj