56 ELEMENT A R Y TISS UES. it principally differs from wliite fibrous tissue is its impregnation with this earthy matter. It is important to remember that the integrity of the periosteum is essential to the proj)er nourishment of bone, and, if it becomes peeled off bv accident or by disease, it should be replaced speedily in order to prevent death of the j)art which it supplies with blood. Dentinal Tissue. Dentinal tissue gets its name from the fact that it makes up the bulk and determines the form of the teeth, the Latin for " tooth " being dms. A tooth has a crown, the part which projects from the gum ; a fang or root, the part buried in the jaw ; and a neck, the narrow and sometimes constricted part embraced by the edge of the gum. If a vertical section is made through the middle of a tooth (Fig. 46) which has a single root, there is brought to view a long central cavity, containing the Fig. 46.—Tooth iu vertical section. Fig. 47.—Dentinal tubules, in longitudinal section. The lower part of the cut shows the portion of dentine near the pulp-cavity. (Kolliker.) pulp, the latter being com])osed of vessels and nerves, supported on a staging of areolar tissue, and also a great number of cells of the connective-tissue class arranged at the periphery of the cavity. Around this pulp-cavity is the hard portion of the tooth, in which are three different tis- sues : a crust of epithelial tissue all over the crown, the enamel; a crust of osseous tissue all over the fang, the cementum; and the main mass of the structure, the dentine or ivory. ■ The dentine is white, very dense, closely allied to bone, than which it is a little harder. It is developed from closely-])acked white fibrous tissue, which becomes infil- trated with lime-salts. This compact mass is riddled with minute channels, dentmal tubules (Fig. 47), which radiate in wavy lines from the pulp-cavity in every direc- tion, except at the tip of the fang, where there is an opening through which pass Fig. 48.—Dentinal tubules in cross-section, showing their cavities, walls, and the intcr- tubular substance.