OSSIFICATION OF THE VEBTEBBJE. 125 from the rest of the body by the cartilaginous iieuro-central suture. At birth a vertebra consists of three ossified parts—a body and the two lateral halves of the neural arch—connected by cartilage. Later five epiphyseal centres appear— three of which form tips for the spinous and transverse processes, and two form thin plates on the upper and lower sur- faces of the bodies. The mammillary processes of the lumbar vertebrae have each a small centre. The costal pro- UPPER EPIPHYSEAL DISC SPINOUS Vrocess LATERAL PAST EPIPHYSIS ON TRANSVERSE PROCESS EPIPHYSIS ON SPINOUS PROCESS BODY ^ Fig. 146.—BeKinninf; of ossification in the carti- Fig. 147.—Ossification of a tlioracic vertebra. (After laginous vertebra of a fa?tus. (Testut.) Testut.) cesses of the sixth and seventh cervical usually, of the first lumbar sometimes, and occasionally of other cervical vertebrae, are formed from sepai'ate centres. These may remain separate and become cervical or lumbar ribs. The various centres are not wholly united until about the twenty-fifth year. The atlaa has regularly three centres—one for either half of the neural arch, formed by the lateral masses and the dorsal arch, and the third for the ventral arch. The axis (Fig. 148) ossifies much like other vertebrae, but its odontoid process has two laterally jjlaced centres, which unite together, and later with the body of the axis, though the centre of the intervening cartilage persists through HALF OF ODONTOID PROCESS LATERAL PART HALF OF ODONTOID PROCESS LATERAL PART SPINOUS PROCESS tut.) LOWER epiphyseal' DISC Fig. 148.—Ossification of the axis. (After Tes- lateral part AURICULAR EPIPHYSIS AURICULAR EPIPHYSIS Fig. 149.—Ossification of the sacrum—horizontal sec- tion through first piece, (Alter Testut.) j life. An epiphyseal centre also occurs for the apex of the odontoid process. The sacrum (Fig. 149) also ossifies essentially like other vertebrae, except that there are separate centres for the costal processes of the upper three vertebrae, and the auricular articular surfaces have two secondary centres each. The inter- vertebral discs ossify on the surface, but not in the centre, from the eighteenth to the twenty-fifth year, from below upward. The coccyx is cartilaginous at birth, and each segment has commonly but one centre. The lower three ankylose before middle life, and these with the first still later, while bony union with the sacrum belongs to advanced life. Variations.—Two or a single lateral centre may exist in a vertebral body, forming a divided or a half vertebra. In the fifth lumbar vertebra the neural arch often has four centres. The pairs on either side may fail to unite with each other, causing a separation of the laminae and inferior articular processes from the pedicles, etc. Serial Morphology of the Vertebrae.—The similarity of construction of the vertebrae in each region of the column is evident from the study of their develoji- ment and ossification. Centra or bodies are present for all the vertebrae in man.