175 THE TEMPORAL BONE. ! and theu passes horizontally forward and inward to the outer side of the apex of the bone at the /oro/HeH /acer«?H i/ia//«H(. (" mid<lle torn hole "). Internal to the carotid foramen and reaching to the apex is a quadrilateral surface for the origin I of the tensor tympani and levator palati muscles. Small Foramina on ilm Sur- face.—1. Between the jugular fossa and the carotid foramen is the tympanic canaliGulus for Jacobson's nerve (the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal). 2. In the jugular fossa is the foramen for the auricular branch of the vagus nerve. 3. Small tympanic branches of the carotid plexus pierce the walls of the carotid canal. 4. The aqueduct of the cochlea begins in a triangular depression of the posterior inferior margin, just below the internal meatus. The narrow external or tympanic surface looks slightly forward, and is hidden i by the tympanic plate, excej^t for a variable extent of the outer wall of the carotid j canal in front. On removal of the tympanic bone this surface is seen to form the I inner wall of the tympcm v/in (" drum "). In the angle bet\\'een it and the tympanic [ roof is seen the projection of the Fallopian canal, which bends downward in the angle between the inner and posterior tympanic surfaces, and lodges the facial nerve. 1 Below this is the fenedra ovalis (" oval window "), opening into the vestibule and 1 situated above the promontory, which is grooved for the tympanic plexus of I nerves. Below and behind the promontory is the fenestra rotunda. (" round win- 1 dow"), opening into the cochlea. The surface narrows in front to the bony I canals for the tensor tympani muscle above and the Eustachian tube below, which I are completed externally by the tymjjanic plate. The two canals are separated ' by the delicate processus cochleariformis (" conchshell-shape "), which projects out- j ward and upward. The superior border, grooved for the suj^erior petrosal sinus, attaches the ten- torium cerebelli, a process of which bridges over a notch (trigeminal notch) near the I apex of the bone for the passage of the trigeminal or fifth nerve. A s])icule of bone near the front end of this border is often continued by a fibrous band, rarely by bone [petro-sphenoidal ligament or process), to the side of the dorsum sell« of the sphenoid, completing a foramen for the sixth nerve and the inferior petrosal sinus. The posterior inferior border completes the groove for the inferior petrosal sinus by its articulation with the occipital bone internal to the jugular foramen. The anterior superior and anterior inferior borders are shortened l)y articulation with the squamosal and tympanic bones respectively. The angle between the squamous and petrous jJortions receives the spine of the sphenoid and presents the front orifice of the bony Eustachian canal, to which the cartilaginous part is ] attached. The Tympanic Bone.—In the adult this part of the temporal forms the tym- panic plate. This constitutes the hind, non-articular portion of the glenoid fossa, I which lodges part of tlie parotid gland, and is separated from the squamous por- j tion in front by the Glaserian fissure. Inferiorly it forms the sharp, projecting vaginal (" sheath-like ") process ; superiorly it coalesces Avith the squamous portion, and forms the front, lower, and part of the rear walls of the bony external audi- tory meatus. The latter projects outward in the curved, rough, free margin of the external auditory jjrocess, which attaches the cartilage of the ear. Internally it fuses with the petrosal, and forms the outer wall of the tj'mpanum. Behind it joins the mastoid portion in the auricular fissure. The bony external auditory meatus is elliptical, slightly constricted in the middle, and directed inward and a little forward to the t}-mpanum. Its internal orifice is smooth and grooved for the tympanic membrane ; the external orifice is bounded by the external auditory process except above, where the posterior root of the zygoma bounds it. Externally the Glaserian fissure is closed; internally it is double, and is occupied by a descending jjrocess of the tegmen tympani of the petrous portion, which separates the tympanic and squamosal bones, and forms most of the outer wall of the Eustachian and tensor tympani canals. Between this process and the tympanic plate the fissure transmits to the tympanum the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary artery, and lodges the slender process