244 THE ARTICULATIONS. third, which also extends between the bases of the second and third and between the third and fourth metatarsal bones, and is continuous with that of the naviculo- cuneiform joints, etc. (2) Another interosseous ligament separates the last- described synovial cavity from that between the fourth and fifth metatarsals and between them and the cuboid, by passing from the antero-external edge of the external cuneiform to the inner surface of the fourth and the opposed non- articular surfaces of the third and fourth metatarsal bones. (3) A slender inter- osseous ligament often passes from the inner and front edge of the external cunei- form to the outer side of the second metatarsal bone. Intermetatarsal Articulations.—Proximal.—The four outer bones articulate with one another laterally, and are firmly bound together by short transverse dor.'<nl, plantar, and interosseous lif/anients. The interosseous ligaments connect the rough parts of the lateral surfaces in front of the articular facets, and are verv strong. The dorsal ligament between the internal cuneiform and the second metatarsal takes the place of one between the first and second metatarsal bones, between which there is often a bursa with a facet on the first metatarsal only. Distal.— The digital extremities are loosely connected on their plantar aspect by four transverse bands blending with the ]ilantar sesamoid ]ilates. These form the transverse m,etcdm-sed ligament, which differs fi'om the similar structure in the hand in having a band between the first and second metatarsal bones. Movements.—In the tarso-metatarsal joints there are slight flexion and exten- sion, combined in the first, fourth, and fifth joints with ab- and adduction, which are most free in the fifth joint. In the tarso-metatarsal and intermetatarsal joints there are also gliding movements, whereby the arch is altered and the foot adapted to the ground and made more elastic and flexible. 7. Metatarso-phalangeal and Interphalangeal Articulations. The rounded heads of the metatarsal bones and the concave bases of the first phalanges form articulations similar to the corresponding joints of the hand. They are connected by kdered ligaments and a thick fii)rous plftntar se.setmoid plate, ossified laterally in the great toe-joint into two sesetmoid. bones, which attach the flexor brevis tendons and bound a groove for the long flexor tendon. The phalanges articulate with one another in the same manner as in the hand, and with the same ligaments (i. e., lateral and an inferior or glenoid ligament), except that the second and third phalanges are often ossified together in the foot. The dorsal ligaments of the above joints are principally formed by the extensor tendons. Each joint has a separate synovial membrane. The movemetds also are similar to those in the hand, except that at the meta- tarso-phalangeal joints extension is more free than in the hand ; lateral motions (adduction and abduction) are less free, and take place to and from the second toe as a centre; and the movements of the great toe are much more limited than those of the thumb. Mechanism.—In walking the heel is the first part of the foot to touch the ground, and the weight of the body is transmitted to it through the posterior calcaneo-astragaloid joint, the foot being slightly adducted. As the other foot swings forward the outer border of the supporting foot is raised from the ground and the weight is transmitted to the inner toes ; the foot becomes abducted, and leaves the ground by means of flexion of the great toe. In standing, the longi- tudinal arch is supported and the weight of the body borne by the plantar and calcaneo-navicular ligaments. The oblique direction of the exjjansion of the tibialis posterior and peroneus longus tendons, forward and outward and forward and inward respectively, help to support the longitudinal as well as the transverse arch of the foot. The latter is also supported by the transverse plantar and interosseous ligaments. The heads of the metatarsal bones, on which, and not on the toes, the foot rests in front, are somewhat spread out by the weight of the body, when the foot is raised on the toes.