THE CABPAL BONES. 143 facets. The base articulates with tlie semihinar. The upper surfiice is convex and smooth externally for the triangular fibro-cartilage, rough internally for liga- ments. The lower surface is concavo-convex for the unciform. On the palmar surface near the apex is a circular facet for the pisiform bone. The internal lateral ligament of the wrist is attached to the apex. The Pisiform. The inniform (" pea-shaped ") bone is vertically spheroidal, and has a single oval articular facet behind for the cuneiform. The rest of the bone projects for- Avard as one of the internal eminences for the anterior annular ligament, and gives insertion to the flexor carpi ulnaris. The outer side is slightly concave. The Trapezium. The iro^esmm (" table "), rhoml)ic in form, is the most external bone of the lower row, and therefore has but three articular surfaces—a superior, slightly con- cave, for the scaphoid ; an inferior, saddle-shaped, for the base of the first meta- carpal bone ; and an internal, divided by a ridge into an upper and larger for the trapezoid and a lower and smaller for the base of the second metacai'pal bone. On the palmar surface there is a vertical groove for the passage of the flexor carpi radialis tendon, and external to this a ridge or tuberosity forming the second external prominence for the attachment of the anterior annular ligament. The Trapezoid. The trapezoid (" table-like"), the smallest bone of the lower row, has its longest diameter from before backward. Its dorsal surface is nuich larger than the palmar ; its four articular surfaces are nearly continuous, and present supe- riorly a small, concave, triangular facet for the scaphoid; inferiorly, a long saddle-shaped facet for the second metacarpal bone ; externally, a convex facet for the trapezium; and internally, a facet for the os magnum. The Os Magnum. The OS magnum (" great bone "), the largest carpal bone, is elongated verti- cally, and occupies the centre of the wrist. It presents above a rounded head joined by a slightly constricted neck to a quadrilateral bodij below. It articulates above by its rounded head with the socket formed by the scaphoid and semilunar ; below, by three facets, of which the middle is the largest, with the second, third, knd fourth metacarpal bones; externally, with the trapezoid by a small facet below that for the scaphoid ; and internally, by an elongated facet, sometimes two facets, with the unciform. Its broad dorsal surface is larger than the palmar, and is prolonged downward and inward. The Unciform. The Hnci/br;7i, ("hook-shaped ") is named from a large flattened hook-like pro- cess, concave externally, which ])rojects forward from its palmar surface to attach at its apex the anterior annular ligament. Triangular in form, it articulates above by a narrow facet on its apex with the semilunar, below by two facets with the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones ; externally with the os magnum, and internally by a concavo-convex facet inclined upward, with the cuneiform, having but a narrow non-articular surface on the inner side, i The carpal bones afford origin by their palmar surfaces to most of the short muscles of the thumb and little finger. Ossification occurs for each bone from a single centre, Avhich appears after birth. The cai'tilaginous os eentrede, situated dorsally between the scaphoid,