THE METATARSAL BONES. 161 kidney-shaped facet for tlie Ixise of tlio first metatarsal is nuich larger than the proximal pyriform facet for the navicular. On the internal surface is an oblique shallow gi'oove for the tibialis anterior tendon, leading to an oval facet antero- 1 inferiorly where the tendon is in part attached. On the rougli, concave exter- nal surface there is an L-shajied facet along the u]iper and hind borders, which articulates with the middle cuneiform, exce]it in front, where a distinct facet is marked off" for the inner side of the base of the second metatarsal bone. The Middle Cuneiform. The middle cuneiform (Figs. 181-183), the smallest of the thi'ee, has its base I directed upward. The facets in front and behind are wedge-shaped, that in front for the second metatarsal being slightly smaller. On the inner surface is an L- j shaped facet along its npper and hind borders corresjjonding with that on the internal cuneiform. On the outer surface a facet along its hind border articu- lates with the external cuneiform. The External Cuneiform. The external cuneiform (Figs. 181-183) also has its base directed upward. Continuous with the triangular facet for the base of the third metatarsal, at the fore part of each lateral surface, are small facets, internally for the second j metatarsal and externally for the fourth metatarsal. The internal surface has in addition a facet along its hind border for the middle cuneiform, and the external j surface has a larger facet bellind and above for the cuboid. The Metatarsal Bones. The five metatarscd bones (Figs. 181-184) are numbered from within outward. They closely resemble the metacarpal bones in having irregular cuboidal bases, articulating with the same num]:)cr of bones as do the metacarpal ; in having tapering triangular shafts, slightly concave from end to end on tlie plantar aspect; and in having laterally compressed heads with articular facets extending onto the plantar surfaces, where they arc grooved for the flexor tendons, and with lateral tubercles and dcj)ressions for the lateral ligaments. The line of their bases slopes from within outward and backward, and is interi'upted by the mortising of the second between the intei'nal and external cuneiform bones. The first metaiarsal, the stoutest and shortest, lias on its base a largo, slightly concave, kidney-shaped facet for the internal cuneiform, and an inconstant facet externally for the second metatarsal. The lower part of the base projects down- ] ward and slightly outward as the tubcrositij, which attaches part of the peroneus j longus externally and of the tibialis anterior internally. On the plantar surface of the large head are two deep grooves for the sesamoid bones. The second metatarsal is the longest; the others diminish in length to the fifth. Its base articulates in the mortise with the three cuneiform bones, and externally by two facets with the third metatarsal, and occasionally internally with the first metatarsal. The base of the th ird metatarsal articulates proximally with the external cunei- form, internally by two facets with the second metatarsal, and externally by a, single facet with the fourth metatarsal. The base of the fourth 7netatarsrd articulates proximally with the cuboid, internally with the tliird metatarsal by a single facet, and usually with the exter- 1 nal cuneiform. Externally there is a single facet for the fifth metatarsal, bordered by a deep groove for ligaments. The base of the fifth metedarsal articulates proximally Avitli the cuboid, inter- nally with the fourth metatarsal. On its outer asjiect it projects as a large rough tuberosity upon which the tendon of the peroneus brevis is inserted. Being sub- cutaneous, it is an important landmark on the outer border of the foot. 11