CA R TIL A GIKO US TISS UES. 51 of adenoid tissue, but is composed of peculiar bodies, called glia-eells, and their processes. The cells (Fig. 37) are irregular and stellate, and their branches are frayed out at the end in tufts of minute fibrils, which ramify everywhere between the nerve-cells and fibres. Besides the neuroglia, there are two other means of mechanical support for the tissues of the great nervous centres. From the attached portion of the epi- thelial cells Avhich line the cavities of the brain and spinal cord delicate fibrils run perij)herally and end in the pia, the fibrous and vascular covering of these masses. Finally, the })ia itself sends prolongations inward, which are of manifest sustentacular value. Cartilaginous Tissues. Cartilage, popularly called "gristle," is a dense tissue, but much less hard than bone, elastic, and serving important skeletal uses. It occurs in three varieties : True or Hyaline Cartilage. White Fil)ro-cartilage. Yellow Fibro-cartilage. Hyaline cartilage is so named from the Greek word for " glass," because of the transparency of a thin slice of it. It is also called true cartilage, because it is the only variety which presents pure and unmixed the features which charac- terize this tissue. It encrusts the parts of bones which enter into the composition of movable joints, in such situations, being called articular cartilage ; it forms the extensions of the ribs to or toward the breast-bone ; it constitutes the bulk of the larynx ; it stiffens the windpipe and bronchial tubes with strips and plates ; it is the framework of the front of the nose, and does similar service in one or two other places. Hyaline cartilage is opaque, bluish-white, firm, elas- tic, and readily and smoothly cut ^ ^ with a knife. Covering it closely is c a coat, called perkJinndrinm ("around the cartilage"), which has an outer fibrous and an inner cellular layer, and is the agent by which the pro- tection and growth of the cartilage are effected. Under the microscope cartilage is seen to consist of small clusters of roundish, nucleated cells Fk;. ler ceils. ?8.—Cartilage-cells (Testut.) A, mother cell; B, C, daugh- (Fig. 38), each group crowded into a little cavity {lacuna, " a little lake "), between which and its neighbors is an exjianse of apparently homogeneous intei-cellular substance {^inatrLr). The cells are modified fibrous-tissue cells (the so-called connective-tissue cells), and the matrix is really composed of extremely delicate fibril- he, the mass of which is pervaded by minute lymph-channels. Cartilage is non-vascular, and the nourishing material for the parts far- thest from the surfiice ])ermeates the tissue through these lyniph-patlis. White fibro-cartilage is otherwise known as fibrous cartilage and fibro-cartilage. It makes the great disks between the bodies of the vertebrtB, the plates at the movable symphyses, the masses between the bones in the freely-movable joints, and the nodules which strengthen tendons in exposed situa- tions. It has no proper perichondrium, and, indeed, is more like tendon than it is like true cartilage. Microscopically (Fig. 39), it is seen to consist of a dense o'J.—White tibro-cartilai