THE ARTICULATIONS. 212 of the corresponding transverse process, and extending from tlie capsule i)f the costo-ceutral to that of the costo-transverse articulation. It is best seen in a transverse section, and is rudimentary in the case of the eleventh and twelfth ribs. The jjostcrior codo-franstierse ligament is a short strong liand extending from the outer end of the transverse process outward and upward to the rough non-articular part of the tubercle of the corresponding rib. It is wanting to the eleventh and twelfth ribs. The superior costo-transverse ligament consists of a broad, tiat, iibrous band between the upper border of the neck of each rib below the first, and the lower border of the transverse process next above it. Two layers are often distinguishable—the ventral, passing upward and outward, the dorsal and more scattered fibres passing upward and inward. Externally this ligament is continuous with the fascia lining the external intercostals ; internally it is free and thickened ; in front it is in relation with the intercostal vessels and nerves. Fig. 230—Articulation of the vertebral bodies with tal section : upper surface of lower segment, right each other, and of the ribs with the spine. (Testut.) side. (Testut.) B. The Costo-chondral Synarthroses.—The costal cartilages are joined to the cup-shaped ends of the ribs by the continuity of the investing perichondrium and periosteum. C. Tlie Chondro-sternal Articulations are between the fossse on the lateral borders of the sternum and the inner ends of the cartilages of the u])per seven (the sternal) ribs. The first rib is joined by synarthrosis to the sternum. The others have synovial joints, generally single, but in the case of the second rib usually double on one or both sides. When the synovial sac is double, an inter- articular ligament connects the ridge on the facet of the cartilage with the fibro- cartilage between the manubrium and body of the sternum. A similar ligament sometimes exists in the other joints. The synovial sac is frequently obliterated in the joints of the sixth and seventh cartilages. The chondro-sternal joints are surrounded by short capsular ligaments, most developed in front, above, and below, where they are called, respectively, anterior, superior, and inferior chondro-sternal ligaments. In the anterior ligament the fibres radiate from the front of the inner end of the cartilage to the front of the sternum, where they decussate with the oppo- site ligament and adjoin those above and below. The so-called posterior chondro- sternal ligainent is little more than the continuity of periosteum and perichondrium