702 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. Azygos Uvulae (Fig. 747) (" the unyoked (not-paired) muscle of the uvula," —a misnomer, as there are two muscles).—Situation, in the soft palate, close to the midline. Or/r//??, posterior nasal spine. Direction, dowmvard. The muscles of the two sides unite below, and terminate in a free, dangling end, making the bulk of the uvula. Adiov, shortening the uvula. Nerve, probably the spinal acces- sory, through the pharyngeal plexus. THE TEETH. The teeth are dense, white structures, firmly implanted in sockets in the alveolar processes of the jaw-bones. They are essential parts of the chewing- apparatus, and are concerned in articulation. Each consists of three portions—a root or fang, a neck, and a crown. The surface toward the tongue is called " inner," and the o]>2)osite one is called " outer." The root is embedded in the bone, has a tapering shape, and fits accurately in its socket—an arrangement which ensures a distribution of pressure over the sur- face, and the removal of pressure from the tip of the fang, where the vessels and nerves pass to and from the tooth-cavity. The crovn is the portion which projects beyond the gum. The neeh is a narrow strip between the fang and crown, is slightly, if at all, constricted, and is embraced by the border of the gum. In each jaw are sixteen teeth, arranged with bilateral symmetry, and all set obliquely, except the two nearest the middle line in the mandible. Classifying them ac- cording to their shape, and reckoning from the median line, we find in each lateral half of each jaw two incisors, one canine, two bicuspids, and three molars (Fig. 748). The Incisors (Fig. 749) ("cutters") are the teeth by which portions of food are bitten off. The root of an incisor is a long cone ; Fig. 748.—The teeth of the right half of the upper jaw in their sockets.viewed from below. UPPER INCISORS FRONT UPPER INCISORS REAR UPPER INCISORS SIDE CENTRAL LATERAL LOWER INCISORS —FRONT LOWER INCISORS—REAR LOWER I N C1 SO RS—SI DE Fig. 749.—The inci.sor teeth from different points of view. (Testut.) its crown presents an anterior, slightly convex surfiice, and a posterior, slightly con- cave surface, the two meeting in a sharp free edge. The central incisors (those