THE BONES. 132 fulcrum in the movements of the latter. It is curved like an italic /. Its inner two-thirds, prismatic or cylindrical, is convex forward like tiie thorax below it; ACROMIAL END Fig. 155.—The right clavicle, upper surface and sternal end. (Testut.) its outer third, flattened from above downward, is concave forward, corresponding to the hollow between the thorax and the shoulder. The Huperior swrface is flat and broad in its outer tliird, where it is overhipped by the attachment of the trapezius behind and the deltoid in front, with a subcu- taneous area between. In the inner two-thirds it is rounded and subcutaneous externally, and marked by the attachment of the sterno-cleido-mastoid internally. The ventral surface in its outer third is merely a rough border for the origin of the deltoid, near the inner limit of which is the deltoid tubercle, when present. In its inner two-thii-ds it is broader, and rough for the origin of the pectoralis major muscle. The inferior mrface presents the rough t)-apezoid line, running inward and backward from near the front of the outer end to the conoid tubercle, near the dorsal ])order at the junction of the outer fourth and the inner three- fourths. These attach respectively the trapezoid and conoid portions of the coraco- clavicular ligament. Internal to the conoid tubercle is a shallow groove for the insertion of the subclavius muscle. Near the sternal end is a rough impression for the rhomboid ligament which binds the clavicle to the first rib. Internal to this impression is a facet where the clavicle plays on the first costal cartilage. This Fig. 156.—The right clavicle, under surface. (Te.stut.) facet is continuous with tlie sternal facet, and close beside it the sterno-hyoid mus- cle is attached. The dorml mrface, like the ventral, is merely a rough border in its outer third, where the trapezius muscle is inserted. In its inner two-thirds it is broader and smooth, and arches over the subclavian vessels and the bracliial plexus. The nutrient foramen is usually seen passing outward near the niiddk' of tliis surfac^e, but sometimes it is on the inferior surface. Part of the clavicular attachment of the sterno-cleido-mastoid is found at the sternal end of this surface. The border^ separating the dorsal and inferior surfaces glasses from the conoid tubercle to the rhondioid impression. The derncd end is ex])andcd into a triangular or oval articular surface, whichj plays upon the interarticular fibro-cartilage l^etween it and the sternal facet. Its rough borders attach the sterno-clavicular and intei'clavicular ligaments. The acromial end presents an oval articular surface, elongated from before backward, ' No other border needs description. The clavicle is often described as having three surfacesi and three borders in its inner two-thirdf, and two in its outer third. In this less common or lessi accurately described condition the ventral border is expanded in its centre for the attacliinent of the] pectoralis major muscle. I