THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 814 the albuginea, numerous fibro-muscular lamellated or filamentous trabeeuloE, are derived. These become smaller near the central axis of the body, and are stronger behind, in the vicinity of the crura, than in front. Crossing each other in divers directions, the trabeculse divide the cylindrical cavity of the albuginea into an immense number of spaces, called areolcv. The latter communicate freely with each other, and with those of the opposite boily throngli the fissures in the sep- tum. They are lined by epithelial cells, resenil)ling tiiose found in the smallest arterial branches, and, therefore, represent widely dilated capillaries. At several points in their walls these spaces communicate with the arteries; they also give origin to the veins. The Corpus Spongiosum (Fig. 881) is traversed throughout its whole extent by the urethra. Its posterior extremity, somewhat dilated, is called the bulb, its anterior extremity, much dilated, makes up the glanf<, while the intervening por- tion is known as the body. The bulb (Fig. 880) is pear-shaped, about one and a half inches in length, and three-quarters of an inch in diameter at its widest part. It is larger than the body, and contains the bulbous portion of the urethra, which is here surrounded by a greater amount of erectile tissue than elsewhere. Its posterior extremity lies about half an inch in front of the anus. Tapering anteriorly, it soon gains the inferior groove, formed by the junction of the corpora cavernosa, and merges into the body. The superior surface of the bulb rests against the inferior layer of the triangular ligament from which it receives an investment; its inferior surface is covered l)y the bulbo-cavernosi (acceleratores urin^e) muscles. These muscles, tw^o in number, arise from a median ra]>he on the under surface of the bulb. Diverging they encircle the latter and meet on its dorsal surface. A few of their most anterior fibres are sometimes inserted into the sides of the cor- pora cavernosa, or into the fascial sheath of the ]ienis, in which case they com- press during erection the dorsal vein. Tlie urethra does not occujiy the central axis of the bulb, but lies nearer to its superior surface. The body is cylindrical (u- slightly tapering. It occupies the inferior groove formed by the junction of the cavernous bodies, and is tunnelled along its centre by the urethra. DISTAL PART OF SEP- TUM PECTINIFORME PREPUCE RETRACTED FOSSA NAVIC- ULAR I S FRENUM VALVE OF LA- CUNA MAGNA LEFT SIDE OF URETHRA —FLOOR OF URETHRA LACUNA MAGNA CORPUS CAVERNOSUM CORPUS SPONGIOSUM Fig. 882.—The penis, distal end, in sagittal section one-twelfth ineh at left of middle line. (Testut.) The glans (Figs. 882-884) forms the anterior extremity of the penis. It is conoidal in outline and presents at its summit a vertical fissure, the meatus urina- rius externum, the anterior opening of the urethra. Its base, directed backward,