585 THE SEVENTH OB EACE4.L NERVE. tvmjiani nerve. Of the muscular fibres most may l)e traced to the trunk of the mandibular division of the fifth nerve, Avithout interruption in the ganglion-cells. The Sixth or Abducent Nerve. The sixth nerve (Fig. 636) is purely motor, supplying the external rectus muscle of the eyeball. Its nucleus consists of a compact group of cells in the floor of the fourth ventricle, which forms the prominence known as the eminentia teres. It is in series with the third, fourth, and twelfth nuclei, and is surrounded bv the seventh or facial roots, but has no connection with them. Its most im- portant connection is with the opposite oculomotor root by fibres which cross over and ascend in the posterior longitudinal bundle ; and thus the nucleus of the sixth nerve supplies the extei'ual rectus of its own side directly, and the internal rectus of the opposite side indirectly, through the opposite third nerve. Tiie nerve roots run ventrolaterally through the pons to emerge as a flattened band from the groove between the oblongata and pons, just external to the ante- rior pyramid. This soon becomes rounded and pierces the dura at the side of the dorsum sellse, behind and internal to the fifth nerve. It passes through the cavernous sinus, lying under the carotid artery, and gains the orbit through the sphe- noidal fissure, where it lies between the two heads of the external rectus, beneath the inferior division of the third nerve, and above the ophthalmic vein. It then runs forward on the inner surface of the external rectus muscle, which it supplies. In the cavernous sinus the sixth nerve receives filameuts from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic and, as it enters the orbit, it communicates with, the ophthalmic division of the fifth. The Seventh or Facial Nerve. The seventh nerve (Fig. 645), excepting what will be described as the pars intermedia, is purely motor to the face muscles. Its nucleus lies deeply embedded in the pons on a level with the strise acustici?e. It is in line with the motor nuclei of the fifth and ninth. The root of this nerve pursues a very circuitous course through the pons, running first dorsally, then upward, next laterally above, and finally ventrally on the outside of the sixth nucleus. It emerges from the groove between the pons and oblongata, external to the olivary body and in the same transverse plane as the eighth nerve. Between its superficial origin and that of the eighth nerve, springs a small bundle called by Wrisberg the pars intermedia. The seventh, eighth, and pars intermedia run together outward into the internal auditory raeatus, the seventh nerve lying in a groove on the upper and fore part of the auditory nerve, the pars intermedia being between them. The pars intermedia, in spite of some apparent connections with the eighth nerve, has no real continuity with it. It arises from the upper part of the glosso- pharyngeal nucleus, joins the facial nerve immediately after the latter enters the aqueductus Fallopii, and is probably the main constituent of the chorda tym- paui nerve. At the bottom of the internal auditory meatus the facial nerve enters the aqueductus Fallopii. In this canal it runs first outward between the cochlea and vestibule till it abuts on the inner wall of the tympanum ; backward in the sub- stance of the inner tympanic wall, above the fenestra ovalis, being here sepai'ated from the tympanum by a thin lamina of bone and the lining membrane of the middle ear ; and lastly it turns somewhat acutely downward l^ehind the pyramid and posterior tympanic wall to appear at the base of the skull through the stylo- mastoid foramen. At the point where it l)ends sharply backward the bend is capped by a some- what conical swelling called the genioilede r/anr/lion. On issuing from the petrous bone the facial nerve runs downward and for- M-ard through the substance of the parotid gland, superficial to the external