413 THE ARTERIES. Variations.—The axillary sometimes gives off one of the artei'ies of the fore- arm. This is usually the radial, but is sometimes the ulnar, and sometimes the interosseous. Very often the usual number of branches from the axillary is diminished by the origin of two or more from a common trunk. The third por- tion of the axillary is sometimes crossed by a muscular slip extending from the pectoralis major to the latissimus dorsi. Surgical Anatomy (Fig. 458).—The artery may be ligated in any portion of its course. The vessel is easily found and ligated in the third portion, and may be exposed and ligated by a deep dissection in the first portion. The second portion is so covered by the pectoralis minor that a division of this muscle would be necessary to expose the artery; and, therefore, this portion would not be selected VERTEBRAL Fig. 457.—Axillary and subclavian arteries. iTestut.) for ligation. Ligation of the first portion of the axillary can be done in the fol- lowing way : An incision four inches in length is made below the middle of the clavicle and parallel with the clavicular fibres of the pectoralis major muscle. This incision should divide the skin, superficial and deep fascise, and expose the pectoralis major muscle. The muscle-fibres should not be cut across, but sepa- rated by blunt dissection, held apart by retractors, and the pectoralis minor mus- cle sought for and exposed. Between the clavicle and the inner border of the pectoralis minor stretches a strong fibrous layer, the costo-coracoid membrane, which being divided, the axillary artery will be exposed, with the axillary vein situated internally and beneath, and the brachial plexus above and externally. These structures are to be avoided in applying a ligature. The ligation of the third portion of the artery requires but a superficiaf dissection. If the axillary space is divided from before backward into thirds, the vessel will be found at the junction of the anterior with the middle third. An incision two and a half inches long is made at this point, and parallel to the course of the vessel. The skin and superficial and deep fasciae being cut through, the vessel will be exposed,