THE EAR. By F. H. GERRISH. THE ear is the organ of the sense of hearing. In the animal in which it occurs in its simplest form it is merel^y a sac, lined with a sensitive membrane and filled with fiuid. Agitation of the medium in which the animal lives causes waves in the fluid of the sac, their striking npon the sensitive membrane pro- duces a thrill in the nerve, and this, being transmitted to the nerve-centre, is there interpreted as sound. Next higher in the scale is an ear, which, in addition to the elements above named, has minute stony bodies in its cavity. Tlie effect of these particles is to heighten the impression which the waves of fluid bearing them produce upon the sensitive nerve. The human ear is an extremely complicated organ, but the essential part of it is constructed on precisely the plan of this primitive ear. The organ consists of three portions, named respectively the internal ear, the middle car, and the external ear. Of these only the first, the internal ear, is of indispensable import- ance ; the others are mei'ely accessory to it. THE INTERNAL EAR OR LABYRINTH. The essential part of the internal ear is a sac, lined ivith a sensitive membrane, and filled with a fluid, in which are hard particles. The sac is so very intricate that it is called the labyrinth, and, to distinguish it from the bony cavity in which it is lodged, the adjective membranous is applied to it. The membranous labyrinth is situated in the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It does not completely fill the excavation which it occupies, but between it and the surrounding bony wall there is a space, which is filled with a fluid, called perilymph ("the water around "). The Membranous Labyrinth (Figs. 715, 717). General Description.—Tlie membranous labyrinth is a closed bag of fantastic shape, consisting of several segments, which have received distinguishing names. At the middle of the series are two sacs, of which the larger and posterior is called the utricle, and the smaller and anterior, the saccule. From the utricle extend three long loops, the semicircular canals; from the saccule one long, coiled process, the canal of the cochlea ; and from each of the sacs a minute tube, which unites with its fellow, and thus completes the continuity of the labyrinthine cavity. The fluid which fills this unbroken series of chambers and tubes is called endolympli ("the water within"). The membranous labyrinth is lined throughout with epithelium, which is simple and flattened, except over the areas where the branches of the auditory nerve are distributed, and in these places it is especially modified. The Utricle.—The utricle is a sac of irregular shape. Upon that part of its inner surfiice to which a branch of the nerve of hearing is distrilnited is an area, called the macula acustica ("auditory spot"), in which the wall is thickened, and the epithelium peculiarly modified, being changed from flattened into neuro-epithe- lium. Some of the cells become conoidal and have upon their free ends each a strong, stiff hair; and others, longer than these and resting upon the basement 66S