512 THE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. closer relation than any other to the great ganglia at the base of the hemisphere. The insula is sometimes called gifri operfi (" the covered gyres") ; and the ]iarts of the frontal and parietal lobes Avhich overla]) the insula are known as the opcrcuhi.m ("the cover"). The Lobes of the Mesial and Tentorial Surfaces.—The mcsUd surface of the hemispliere cannot t)e seen ])laiuly without dividing the encephalon in the middle line, and removing the hemispheres from each other ; and the surface which con- FiG. 556.—The left insula, the overlapping parts uf the hemisphere having been removed. The numerals specify the gyri. (Daltou). tinues the mesial downward (called the tentorial surface, on account of its resting in part upon the tentorium) is brought into view from the middle line by the removal of the crus and all below it. This dissection exposes a number of objects huddled together in the centre of the field, of Avhich the largest, highest, and most conspicuous is the callosum, already mentioned as the great bond of union between the hemispheres. This displays a broad, cut surface, which forms a flat- tened arcli from the front to the back of this mid region, and under the arch are gathered many structures, which, being internal, will be passed by until the study of the peri})hery is completed. AVhen we look directly upon the Hat, mesial surface of the hemisphere, the tentorial surface, into which the mesial runs at its lower Ijorder, slopes away from us to the lower margin of the convex, external surface, as is shown liy Fig. 557. Thus, when viewed from the median line the tentorial surface is a good deal foreshortened. On the mesial surface (Fig. 558) are parts of two fissures already mentioned as api)earing on the convex surface : the central, the upper end of which notches tlie sharp border more than half-way back ; and the pariefo-occipital, which, from its small beginning on the convexity of the hemisjihere, is continued over the boi'der, and then downward and forward, joining the calcarine at an acute angle. The calcarine fissure (from calcar, "a spur") runs from near the rather ])ointed hind end of the hemisphere upward and forward, and just beyond its middle, at the point where it receives the parieto-occipital, bends downward, and terminates beneath the rear end of the callosum. Encircling the callosum is a fi,?sure, called the caUosal. Beginning below the front end of the callosum is a fissure, which runs in a curve nearly concentric with that of the callosal and also with that of the margin of the hemisphere, until a point above the hind end of the callosum is reached, at which the fissure turns, and runs upward and backward to the upper border. Its situation gives it the name caUoso-marginal fissure. Coursing in the general direction of the body of this fissure, between it and the parieto- TEN-<° Fig. 557.—Outline of coro- nal section of liemispherc, showing slope of tentorial s\irface. I