826 THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. yolk; (3) situated cxcentrically in tlio vitellus the germinal vesicle, yv\n(;\i repre- sents the nucleus of the cell ; (4) the nucleolus or germinal sjjot. The zona peUueida, a thick strf)ng and transparent membrane, forms the outer covering of the ovum. It is marked by numenjus radiating striaj, and for this rea- son is sometimes called the zona radlata. The striae are supposed to be minute canals, through which nutrition reaches the ovum, while it is still in the Graafian follicle, and through which the spermatozoa may afterward pass in the pi'ocess of fecunda- tion. The yolk or vitellus is a soft substance contained within the zona radiata. It consists of granules embedded in a fine reticulum of proto])lasm. The germinal vesicle, YoViT kttt of '"ch in diameter, lies near the periphery of the ovum. It is composed of a structureless membrane, containing a fine clear matrix, in which are embedded a few granules. The germinal sjxjf, or nucleolus, g-gVq- Yjfj-f) of an inch in diameter, occupies the side of the germinal vesicle nearest to the periphery of the ovum. There may be more than one. Origiii.—The primordial ova are scattered among the other cells of the germi- nal epithelium, and with them descend into the substance of the ovary, as already described. Some, however, remain behind, and are found among the single layer of columnar cells, which covers the surface of the ovary. Tliese probably undergo no further developnient. Discharge.—Rupture of a Graafian follicle, and sometimes more than one, occurs shortly before or during each menstrual period. It takes place at a point in the peripheral pole of the follicle called the sfigma, ("point") or macula (" spot") J'olliculi. The wall at this point is scantily supplied with blood-vessels, and, as the follicle nears maturity, it undergoes fatty degeneration. The ovum with the liquor folliculi and cells of the discus proligerus is discharged on the surface of the ovary. Corpora Lutea.—A corpus luteum (" yellow body ") occupies the site of each ruptured Graafian follicle, and is ]>roduced by certain changes which take j)lace in the follicular wall. A short time before the follicle is ready to rupture, the cells of the tunica projiria begin to proliferate, and the wall of the follicle is thrown into folds, into which project newly formed vascular loops. A blood-clot fills the follicle after rupture, but it is soon absorbed and the folds, growing into the cavity, take its place. In the non-pregnant the whole structure begins to shrink in about two weeks, and in a short time disappears. The corpus luteum of preg- nancy differs much from that just described. It is larger and persists for a longer time. As the blood-clot disappears, a peculiar yellowish connective tissue (yel- low probably because the cells ai'c loaded with oil-globules) takes its place. After several months the corpus luteum ceases to grow, but it is still present, though much reduced in size, even at the end of pregnancy. The surface of the ovary is smooth until puberty. After that time it grows more and more uneven, due to the scarring which follows the formation of the corpora lutea. Vessels and Nerves.—Each ovary is supplied with blood by a branch from the abdominal aorta, the ovarian artery, which corresjionds to the sjiermatic in the male. This vessel is carried to the ovary between the layers of the suspensory ligament. It divides into two branches : a tubal, distril)uted to the Fallopian tube, and an ovarian. The latter runs in a flexuous course along the attached border of the ovary, to which it sends from ten to twelve branches, and ends by anastomosing with the uterine artery near the superior angle of the uterus. The branches to the ovary, also tortuous, end in capillary plexuses in the tunica propria of the Graafian follicles. The veins form in the middle of the organ a considerable mass, called the hulh of the ovary. Emerging from the hilum, these vessels join with some of the uterine veins to form between the layers of the broad ligament the peinipinifoi-m (" tendril-form ") plexus. From this the blood is collected by a single trunk, the ovarian vein, which follows the course of the corresponding artery. The right ovarian vein empties into the inferior^vena cava, where it is supplied with a valve. The left joins the renal vein at a right angle,