THE TESTICLES. 805 exhibit frequent anastomoses, particularly near their origin, not only with the tubes of the lobule to which they belong, but with those of adjoining lobules. Near the mediastinum the canals "of each lobule unite to form a single straight excretory tube, one of the tubuli recti. The "wall of a seminiferous tubule, on cross section, is seen to consist of several concentric layers of epithelial cells. The cells of the innermost layer are united edge to edge to form a basement membrane ; the outer layers are incomplete. wTthin the'^tubule are several layers of small epithelial nucleated cells, the pro- genitors of the spermatozoa. (See page 77.) The excretory canals (Fig. 873) of the testicle do not produce spermatozoa, but simply serve to convey the latter from the tubuli seminiferi to the canal of the epididymis. They are"^ the tubuli recti, the rete testis, and the vasa eiferentia. The tubuii recti, formed in the manner already indicated at the apices of the lobules, are short, straight, and of smaller calibre than the seminiferous canals from which they spring. They penetrate the mediastinum, and in its anterior EFFERENT CONES I Fig. 873.—Diagram of testicle proper and epididymis. (Testut.) portion break up into the rete testis. The walls of the straight tubules are made up of the fibrous tissue of the mediastinum, lined by a single layer of prismatic cells. The rete testis occupies the whole length of the mediastinum, and is com- posed of ana.stomosing vessels of irregular calibre, which vary in diameter, but are always larger than the seminiferous canals or the straight tubules. Like the lat- ter they have no proper wall but are simply channels dug out of the fibrous tissue of the mediastinum, and lined by an epithelium which is here cylindrical, there cubical, or even of the flattened variety. At the upper and back part of the tes- ticle these channels finally unite to form a smaller number of canals, the vasa effer- entia ("vessels carrying from"). The latter almost immediately escape from the albuginea, and enter the globus major, with which structure they will be described. The interstitial tissue is a very delicate connective tissue, which supports the seminal tubules and the smaller ramifications of the blood-vessels. It is derived from the trabecular, and is peculiar in that it contains, besides the ordinary cells of connective tissue, the so-called interstitial cells. These are large, rounded or oval corpuscles, some of which exhibit branching processes. Their protoplasm is granular, often filled with fat, and may contain a brown or yellowish pigment. They occupy divers situations, surrounding the smaller vessels and lying between the tubules, and are either a special yariety of connective-tissue cells, or are derived from cells of the germinal epithelium, which have not been utilized in forming the tubes. In the spaces of this tissue the lymphatics of the testicles take birth. Minute Structure of the Epididymis.—The vasa efferentia, ten to fifteen in number, carry the spermatozoa from the rete testis to the canal of the epididymis. Emerging from the testicle at its ujjper and back part, they are at first straight,