196 THE BONES. overhung by three turbinate plates, of which the upper two belong to the etlnnoid, and the lower is the inferior turbinate l)one. The superior meatus, between the superior and inferior turbinate plates of the ethmoid, is very short, being limited to the posterior half of the fossa. It opens behind only, and into it open the posterior ethmoidal cells and the spheno-palatine Fig 223.—The nasal fossEp, viewed from the mi<idle line. (Testut.) foramen, which connects it with the spheno-raaxillary fossa. The middle meatus, between the inferior turbinate plate of the ethmoid and the inferior turbinate bone, is longer than the former. It opens both in front and behind, and into it open the maxillary sinus or antrum, and, by means of the infundibulum, the frontal sinus and the anterior ethmoidal cells. The inferior meatus, the longest and widest, also opens both in front and behind, and lies between the inferior turbinate bone and the floor of the nasal fossa. The nasal duct opens into it superiorly in front and connects it with the orbit. The nasal foss;e thus com- municate by narrow passages with all the neighboring fossfe and air-sinuses. The latter are hollow spaces within the maxilla, sphenoid, ethmoid, and frontal, already described in connection with those bones. With the exception of the antrum, which exists during foetal life, they originate during childhood, and all increase in size rapidly at j^nberty, and more slowly throughout adult life. The Interior of the Cranium. In a skull bisected horizontally or vertically notice the great proportionate size of the brain-cavity and the thickness and composition of its walls (Fig. 224). The latter consist of an outer and an imier table of compact bone and the inter- vening cancellous diploe ("fold"). The in'ner t(d)le, called the vitreous Udjle I'rom its hardness and brittleness, has a smooth, shining surface, marked with im])res- sions for the convolutions of the brain and with grooves for blood-vessels. The skull-cap or c<dvaria averages one-fifth of an inch in thickness, but along certain ridges, and especially at the base, the tliickness is much greater. Thinner areas exist in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid and the orbital plates of the frontal bone, where there is no diploe, and also in the lower occipital fossse, the scjuamous portions and glenoid foss;e of the temporal bones. The calvaria or skull-cap consists of a vaulted dome, formed by the frontal and parietal bones and the interparietal portion of the occipital bone. Its inner surface presents in the median line the (/roove for the superior longitudinal sinus, ending in front in the fronted, crest, and liehind at the internal occipital protuber- ance. On either side of the groove are varying numbers of depressions for Pae-