00 IXTEOD UCTOE Y. on die neck, the front and lower portions being " face " {fades), the upper and back " cranium," the dividing-line bet-\veen the two parts starting at the so-called root of the nose in the mid-line, and extending on each side beneath the over- hanging brows and downward and backward to the ear. But " head," in com- mon parlance, means at some times all that we have included, as in decapitation : at otliers only the cranium, as in the use of the word headache. " Face " with the people embraces the anatomical flice and also the anterior portion of the cranium : a beautiful face would be considered desecrated if its picture showed nothing above the eyeballs. And yet " face " is often used in a more restricted sense than the anatomical, as when one speaks of faceache, meaning pain in the cheek region only. Fig. 1.—Side view of cranium and face. (F. H. G.) The cranium is subdivided (Fig. 1) into an anterior part, the "forehead" ifrons); an ujiper, the "crown" {vciiex or sinciput); a back, the occiput; and, on each side, the temple (tempus). There are no sui-face-markings by which these are absolutely delimited. At the lower portion of the temporal region is the flaring part of the ear, known by anatomists to be the least imjjortant division of the organ of hearing (auris), but thought by peoj^le commonly to be about all of it, and con- sequently named " ear." The forehead terminates below at the " nose " (na-ms) in the middle line, and on each side of this, in an arched border, u.sually covered with short, crisp hairs, and called the " brow " (supercilium). In the face immediately beneath each broAv is an "'eye" (oculu-s), that is, an eyeball or globe, shielded above by an "upper lid" (paJpebra superior) and below by a "lower lid" {jxil- pjcbra inferior), their edges fringed with short hairs, the " la.shes " {ciliet). Be- tween the eyes and in the middle of the face, below their level, is the projecting part of the nose, which is all that is generally recognized as nose. This has on each side below an opening, presenting downw ard, the " nostril" (naris), guarded on the outer side by a flaring projection, the " wing of the nose " (ala nasi). "What is commonly called the " bridge of the nose," a prominence caused by the nasal bones, has no technical designation. At a short distance beneath the nose is a transverse slit, to wliich, as well as to the cavity of which it is the 023ening, is given the name "mouth" (os). Above this a2)ertm'e is the " upj^er