EMBRYOLOGY. 100 tou8 tissue immediately beneath the thickenings develop into the stroma, mto which cords of cells (Fig. 113) grow from the thickening. Certain of the cells GERMINAL PRIMITIVE OVULES EPITHELIUM CORD OF CfLLS IW EPITHELIUM Fif;. 113.—Section of the ovary of a iifw-boni child. (After Waldeyer.) of the cords enlarge greatly and become ova, the remaining cells multiplying rap- idly by division and becoming the follicle-cells. Division of the cells which are to form ova ajipears to cease at aI)out the second year after birth, by which time, therefore, all the ova are differentiated. The /csfcs are at first very similar to the ovaries, and have a similar development, the spermatic cells being derived from the cells of the germinal ridge, and the stroma of the ovary being represented by the tunica albuginea and the trabeculfe of the testis. When mature the ova are extruded from the ovary practically into the peri- toneal cavity, though, as a matter of fact, they are usutdly received at once into funnel-like openings by which the Miillerian ducts communicate with the peri- toneal cavity, these ducts becoming the Fallopkiii tubes of the adult, and their lower ])ortions fusing to form the idcrun and vaf/ina. In the embryo, however, the Miillerian ducts extend much farther forward than the position of the ovary, the ostium of the Fallopian tubes being a new formation and not the original terminal opening, the more anterior portion of each duct being probably repre- sented iji the adult by the In/dafid of llorgof/ui (Fig. 114), a small vesicular structure attached to one of the fimbrise of the secondary opein'ng. While the ovary and the metanephros have been developing the mesoiiephros has been degenerating, and all those portions of the Wolffian ducts which lie anterior to the points of outgrowth of the metanephric ducts disajipear, excejit small portions at each end. The upper end, through mesonephric tubules which communicate with it, comes into intimate relation with the ovary, forming with its tubules the parotmrium, which in the adult lies close to the ovary in the substance of the broad ligament. The lower ends of the Wolffian ducts persist as the caiials of Gartner, situated on each side of the upper end of the vagina, while the meso- iiephros almost completely disappears, its uppermost tubules just mentioned and a small portion of its lower end alone persisting, the latter forming a cyst-like struc- ture lying between the layers of the broad ligament, and termed the paroophoron. It has been seen that the ovaries appear at the level of the mesonephros— that is to say, well forward in the abdominal wall. This position, however, is not retained, but they descend as development proceeds, and finally lie in the pelvic cavity. This descent is partly produced by the contraction of a band of connective tissue which descends from the lower end of the mesonephros to be attached to the skin in the region where the labia majora will later appear, and which is represented by the round ligement of the adult.