THE KNEE-JOINT. 235 muscles, are attached to the sides of the patella ^ and the ligamentiim patellse, and to the tibia along the oblique lines extending from the tuljercle to tlie inner and outer tuberosities. They reach as far as the lateral ligaments. Externally, tlie ilio-tibial band of the fascia lata, attached to the external one of the above oblique lines, adds largely to the strength of the capsule. The capsule is therefore made up of two or thi-ee layers, and between the deeper layer, or the capsular mem- FiG. 253.—Knee-joint, front view. Part of the lia-aments have been removed on the right side. (Testut.) brane proper, and the outer layers there often exists a thin layer of fatty tissue. The cap.sular membrane is attached to the femur and tibia not f;ir from their articular margins, and is adherent to the semilunar cartilages. Of the so-called internal (deep) set of ligaments, most may be well seen by dividing the quadriceps tendon above the patella, continuing the section laterally and downward to the lower ends of both lateral ligaments, and turning down the flap thus made. 6. Si/novial Ligaments.—From the synovial membrane lining the pad of fat behind the ligamentum patellfetwo thin lateral folds of membrane extend upward, one on each side of the patella, known as the alar ligaments. From the middle of the surface of the pad a flattish fold, the ligamentum mueosu/m, extends back- ward and upward to the front of the intercondylar notch. It represents the remains of the .synovial partition between the two halves of the tibio-femoral joint and Ijetween the patello-feraoral and tibio-femoral joints. On dividing the ligamentum mucosum we see 7. The anterior enieial ligament, which extends upward, backward, and outward from its lower attachment to the inner half of the depression in front of the spine of the tibia, and between the fore ends of the semilunar cartilages, to the hind part of the inner surface of the outer condyle of the femur. 8. The posterior crucial ligament is stronger, shorter, and more vertical than the anterior. From behind the tibial spine, from the popliteal notch, and receiving fibres from the posterior cornu of the external semilunar cartilage, its ' Forming what has been called the lateral patellar ligaments.