THE URINARY SYSTEM. 780 the mecliillary portion into the cortical are a number of narrow triangles, their bases resting on the base of the pyramid, and their apices reaching nearly to the subcapsnlar layer. They are called meduUary rays (pyramids of Ferrein), on acconnt of their radiation from the medulla. The diagram (Fig. 8-16 ) \y\\\ sho^y that these yarious appearances are due jirin- cipally to the arrangement of the different portions of the tubes. It will be seen that in the medullary rays are all of the spiral tubes, and the uppermost parts of the straight collecting tubes and of the ascending ]iml)S of the looped tubes (distal spiral tubes), these being placed side by side in line with the chief axis of the ray, the longest being in the middle. In the remaining and greater part of the cortex are the capsules and their necks, and the conyoluted, irregular, and arched collecting tubes, all so intricateh' intermingled as to produce the granular look of the part, and to merit the name of labi/rinth. The medulla contains the greater part of the length of the looped and of the collecting tubes ; and, as these are straight and side by side, the delicate striation of the medulla is explained. The broad alternating dark and light streaks in the pyramid are due to a yascular distribution as will presently be seen. The Vessels of the Kidney.—The arteries enter the lobe in the cortical sub- stance at the sides of the pyramid. When they reach the leyel of the base of the pyramid, they turn inward and run across between the medullary and cortical portions, constituting the arterial arches, and giying branches upward into the cortex, and, according to most authorities, branches downward into the medulla. The branches to the cortex, called inferlohuktr, enter the cortex half way between the medullary rays, and giye off short side-twigs, the afferent vessels (''the yessels carrying to "), each of which terminates in a globular bunch of capillaries, the glomerulus, or Malpighian tuft. This tuft is commonly described as being inside of the capsule, which is the beginning of a uriniferous tube, and, in one sense, this is correct. But, from the physiological point of yiew, the tuft is outside of the capsule ; for it is related to it only as if it had pushed in and stretched the capsular wall at a point opposite the neck, carrying eyerything before it until the cayity was nearly obliterated. The cells now lining the capsule are compar- able with the parietal layer of a serous membrane, and those coyering the glom- erulus with its visceral layer. The capsule and tuft together are called the Mal- pighian body. The blood leaves the tuft through a vessel, called efferent (" carrying