765 THE PLEURJE. 1 Avater; and the presence or absence of the capacity of floating is a ready test of the establishment of breathing, where infanticide is snsjjected. The lung substance or parenchyma is soft and spongy, and gives a crackling sound and a corresponding tactile sensation, when it is pressed between the finger and thumb, probably due to the crushing of the walls of the air-vesicles. The cohesive power of the lung is great, and it resists a high degree of pressure with- out rupturing. On account of the great figure played l)y the elastic tissue in the structure of the pulmonary substance, the lungs return readily to their former size immediately on the removal of the force which has caused their expansion. Tlic yellow fibrous tissue is always on the stretch in the normal condition, but never has an opportunity to assert its full power, even after death, unless the chest- cavity is opened. At a post-mortem examination the removal of the sternum and costal cartilages is instantly folk)wed by the sudden collapse of the lungs, which are reduced to one-third (or less) of their normal bulk, the explanation being simply this : during life the air-pressure on the inside of the lung is sufficient to prevent the full action of the elastic tissue ; but, air being let in on the outer sur- f\ice of the lung, the atmospheric pressure inside exactly balances that outside, and the elasticity of the pulmonary substance, being unresisted, displays its full power. The color of the lung differs widely according to age. Before respiration is established, it is a deep reddish-brown ; on inflation it changes to a lieautiful rose- pink ; in early adult life it is grayish-white ; in early middle life it becomes brown- ish in spots and streaks ; and in old age it is often bluish-black. The alteration from the antenatal hue to the postnatal is manifestly due to the distention of the hing with air—the color is diluted by distribution over a multiplied surface ; but the other changes are largely caused by the deposition, in the areolar tissue between the infundibula and between the lobules, of carbonaceous particles, which have been taken up by the lymphatics. In the lungs of people who breathe air highly contaminated with such materials the changes occur much earlier in life, and are much more pronounced. This deposit makes a great deal clearer the out- lines of the lobules, and upon the free lung-surface their bases may be observed, occupying irregular ]>olygonal areas from one-quarter of an inch and upward in diameter. Within these may be seen the outlines of the air-vesicles, measuring perhaps inch across. Lymphatics are abundant in the areolar septa and in the bronchial mucous membrane, and are said to have been traced upon the walls of the alveoli. They drain these parts into the nodes in the root of the lung. The nerve-terminations are not known. The nerve-supply is from the pneumo- gastric and the sympathetic. THE PLEUR-a:. Each lung is invested with a serous membrane, the pleura (from the Greek word for " side ") (Fig. 826). It is a perfectly typical shut-sac, one portion of which closely envelops the lung, entering its fissures and clothing their walls to the very bottom, and is called the visceral layer, or the ptdmonctry pleura ; and the other portion lines the walls of the great space in which the lung is contained, and is called the parietal layer. Different pf)rtions of the parietal layer are dis- tinguished by special names, which indicate their position. That which lines the ribs, costal cartilages, and intermediate muscles is tlie costal pleura; that wliich is attached to the diaphragm is the diapliragmatic pleura ; that which is ajijjlied to the adjacent structures in the mediastinum is the mediastinal pleura,; and that rising into the root of the neck and covering the dome of the lung is the cervical pleura. As a general rule the pulmonary or visceral pleura is in contact with some part of the parietal pleura ; but in the fissures of the lung two layers of visceral pleura are in contact, and below the sharp, infei'ior border of the lung the two