606 THE NERVES. The Brachial Plexus (Fig. 657). The anterior primary divisions of the fifth, sixth, seventli, and eighth cervical nerves join with the first thoi-acic nerve to form the braeliial ])lexus. Com- munications are also received from the fourth cervical and second thoracic nerves. The cervical nerves emerge from the grooves on the transverse process of the Fig. 657.—Plan of brachial plexus. vertebrae, between the scalenus medius and anterior, and run downward in front of the former muscle. The first thoracic nerve emerges from between the first and second thoracic vertebrte, gives off a small branch to the first intercostal space, and ascends over the first rib to join the eighth cervical nerve. On the surface of the scalenus medius three primary trunks are formed, the fifth and sixth nerves uniting to form tlie upper trunk, the seventh alone forming the mid- dle tnmk, and tlie eighth cervical and fii'st thoracic nerves forming the lo7ver trunk. Tliese run together downward and outward in the subclavian triangle above the subclavian artery. In this situation each trunk sjjlits into an anterior and poHterior division. The anterior divisions of the two upper trunks unite to form the outer cord ; the inner cord is the continued anterior division of tlie lower trunk ; and the three posterior divisions together form the posterior cord. Tliese tliree cords lie to the outer side of the first part of the axillary artery, dis- tribute themselves round its second part in such positions as their names designate, and at the level of the third pai't of the vessel each cord has divided into separate nerves, which bear to the artery the same relations as the cords from which they spring. This is the usual arrangement, but there are numerous variations. The branches of the brachial plexus are classified into s^ipraekivieular and infrctdaviGidar. Branches Given off Above the Clavicle. 1. The nerve to the rhomboids (5. c.) is a long slender branch which springs from the fifth cervical nerve, close to the intervertebral foramen and in common with the first root of the posterior thoracic nerve. It enters the substance of the