456 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. It accompanies first the anterior and then the posterior brancli of tlie left coronary artery, and receives branches from either side of its course, one of which, ascend- ing along the left margin of the heart (left marginal vein) is of some size. The Middle Cardiac Vein (posterior interventricular vein) ascends from the apex of the heart in the dorsal interventricular groove to empty into the right extreni- INTERVENTRIO; 'RIGHT ARTERY—OESCEND- ULAR GROOVE VENTRICLE ING BRANCH Fig. 491.—Cardiac veins, dorsal view. (Testut.) itv of the great coronary sinus. It receives branches from the dorsal surface of both ventricles. The Posterior Cardiac Veins are three or four small vessels, which ascend on the dorsal surfoce of the left ventricle to open along the lower border of the coronary >inns. Tlic Right or Small Coronary Vein passes along the right auriciilo-ventricular groove to convey the blood from the hinder parts of the right auricle and ventricle into tlie right end of the coronary sinus. The following small vessels empty directly into the heart without the inter- vention of the coronary sinus. The Anterior Cardiac Veins are two or three small vessels, which collect the blood from the ventral surface of the right ventricle, and ascend to enter the lower part of the right auricle. One larger than the others {right marginal vein or vein of Galen) runs along near the antero- inferior border of the heart. The smallest cardiac veins {vence cordis mininuc, Vena^- Thebesii) are numerous small veins within the substance of the heart, which open into some of the small foramina Thebesii in the right auricle. Similar veins are said to open into the otlier heart-cavities. THE SUPERIOR VENA CAVA AND ITS TRIBUTARIES (Figs. 491, 493\ The supcfior ((Jcscending) vena cava is formed by the confluence of the right and left brachio-cephalic (innominate) veins behind the lower part of the junction of the first right costal cartilage with the sternum. From this point it passes nearly verticallv downward, with a slight convexity to the right, for about three inches, to empty into tlie right auricle on a level with the third costal cartilage. Its lower inch and a half are contained within the pericardium, the serous layer of which invests it except along its hind border. It receives the blood returned