682 THE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SENSES. THE EXTERNAL OR FIBROUS TUNIC. The two parts of the outer, til)rous tunic, tliough continuous in structure, (liiFer much in appearance, the cornea in fr(nit being perfectly clear and trans- parent, and the sclerotic behind, white and opaque. Both are dense and tirni, and serve to preserve the form of the eyeball. At their junction all around is a wide, shallow depression, the scleral sulcus. The Sclerotic. The posterior surface of the sclerotic is pierced by the optic nerve, an eighth of an inch internal to the posterior pole. Here the dural sheath of the nerve blends Avith the sclerotic, and the nerve fil;)res, in many small bundles, enter through distinct minute pores. The part of the sclerotic thus perforated is called the lataina cribrosa ("sieve-like layer"). Around the optic nei've-entrance, and more or less adjacent to it, the sclerotic is pierced by the ciliary nerves, and the long and short posterior ciliary arteries ; while, farther toward the equator, four or five apertures transmit the large veins called from their mode of formation the vence vorticosce (Fig. 732). A little way (yV inch) behind the corneo-scleral junc- tion the sclerotic is pierced by the anterior ciliary arteries. Somewhat anterior to the equator it gives attachment to the four recti muscles, the two obliqui being attached behind. On the deep surface of the sclerotic, between it and the choroid, there is a layer of loose, pigmented connective tissue, the lamina fusca ("brown layer"), which imparts to its inner surface a dingy, brownish hue. This tissue really occupies a lymph-space between the two tunics. Thus the sclerotic has a lymph- space on each side of it, and the surface that looks toward each space is covered by epithelium. The sclerotic consists of bundles of connective tissue, containing elastic fibres, and having connective-tissue corjiuscles lodged in cell spaces. The tissue is dis- posed in laminje, in some of which the fibers run longitudinally and in others transversely. The laminfe are not separable owing to a frequent interchange of fibres. The scant blood-supply of the sclerotic is derived from the short ciliary and the anterior ciliary arteries, and its more scant nerve-supply, from the ciliary nerves. The Cornea. The cornea, devoid of blood-vessels and perfectly transparent, is the window which admits light to the interior of the eye. It is set in the sclerotic in much the same way as a watchglass is set in its frame. Here the resemblance ends, however, for the sclerotic and cornea are perfectly continuous. Viewed from behind, the cornea is perfectly circular, but a front view shows its transverse slisjhtlv greater than its vertical measurement. This is due to the sclei'otic's over- lapping it more above and below than laterally. The cornea is always more curved than the sclerotic, but its curvature varies in different individuals and at different ])eriods of life, being greatest in youth and diminished in old age. Its outer surface is covered by conjunctival epithelium of the stratified flattened variety, several cells deep. Its posterior surface is lined by a firm, elastic, homogeneous membrane, the membrane of Descemet, structurally distinct from its own proper substance. Shreds of this membrane strij)])ed otf of the cornea tend to curl up with the attached surface inward. Around the mai'gin of the cornea the memljrane of Descemet becomes fibrillar, and breaks up into bundles, some of which attach themselves to the sclerotic and choroid, while otliers bridge over the irido-corneal angle, and attach themselves to the front of the iris. These latter constitute the ligamenfum pectinaium iridis ("the combed ligament of the iris") or pillars of the iris. The sponge-like formation, produced around its border