THE ARTERIES. 427 Relatio>'S of the Abdojiixal Aorta. In front. Peritoneum. Stomach. Pancreas. Duodenum. Splenic vein. Left renal vein. Intestines. Solar plexus. Rigid side. Left sirJe. Inferior vena cava. Left crus of diaphragm. Thoracic duct. Abdominal Left semilunar ganglion. Right crus of diaphragm. aorta. Tail of pancreas. Right semilunar ganglion. Behind. Vertebral column. Receptaculum chyli. Thoracic duct. Variations.—These are commonly variations in length ; the vessel has been found to divide on the third lumbar or on the fifth lumbar, above or Ijeluw the usual point. Surgical Anatomy.—Aneurism of the abdominal aorta is frequently met with ; the relations of the aorta to surrounding structures should be carefully studied in order to interpret the pressure symptoms which may arise. By pressure on the lumbar vertebrte atrophy and absorption of the bodies may i-esult. Pressure on the spinal nerves and the sympathetic system produces pain and interference with the function of the structures and organs supplied by these nerves. The normal abdominal aorta in thin subjects is very readily outlined, and its pulsations dis- tinctly felt, and with the pressure of a stethoscope a murmur can be often pro- duced and heard, which must not be mistaken for aneurism. Ligation of the abdominal aorta has been performed, but always with fatal result. Successful cases of treating aneurism, by mechanical pressure and by operative interference in which silver wire was introduced into the sac, are recorded. Branches.—Tlie branches of the abdominal aorta can well he divided into two groups—a visceral group to the viscera of the abdominal and in part to the pelvic cavities, and a parietal group to the walls of the abdominal cavity. The riscern/ r/ronj) consists of the coeliac axis, the superior mesenteric, the inferior mesenteric, the suprarenal, the renal, and the spermatic. The parietal group consists of the phrenic, the lumljar, and the sacra media. The Coeliac Axis is given off from the abdominal aorta just below the aortic opening in the diaphragm ; it is a large short trunk, about a half inch in length, and divides into the gastric, the hepatic, and the splenic arteries. The gastric artery (Fig. 471) runs from the coeliac axis upward and to the left to the oesophageal orifice of the stomach ; thence it passes from left to right along the small curvature of the stomach to the pyloric opening. In the first part of its course it gives off branches to the oesophagus. The vessel is the smallest branch of the coeliac axis. The hepatic artery passes transversely to the right to the right free edge of the small omentum ; thence it passes upward in front of the foramen of AVinslow to the transverse fissure of the liver, and divides into two branches to supply the right and left lobes of the liver. Variations.—The hepatic artery is sometimes a separate trunk from the aorta ; sometimes an accessory hepatic artery is given off from the gastric, usually sup- plying the left lobe of the liver.