200 THE BONES. to be nearly parallel internally and to look forward. The bones of the Innnan skull are more comjiletely eonsolidated, so that the total number is less than in the lower vertebrates. Thus the pre- and post-sphenoids, the interparietals, the squamosals, the styloids, the ])terygoids, and the preniaxill;^ arc often sejjarate bones, and the frontal bone and mandible are freipiently divided into two halves in vertebrate skulls. The Various Forms of the Skull. The shidl at birth is characterized by the small size of the face and the vcrv lai'ge size of the cranium, the smalhiess of the base, the prominence of the parietal and frontal eminences, the absence of the mastoid processes, the diploe, the suture serrations, the impressions, grooves, and ridges, and by the existence of the fontanelles. The temporal squama and the great wings of the sphenoid do not extend far upward, and the glenoid fossfe are quite flat and small. Variations icifh Agr.—The skull grows very rapidly during the first seven years. During the first dentition the fontanelles close, tlie face enlarges, the jaws lengthen, and the zygoma projects. Bi/ the seventh year some parts, such as the circumference of the foramen magnum, the petrous portion of the temporal bones, the body of the sphenoid, and the cribiform plate, have attained their definitive size, while other parts are quite immature. Near the approach of puberty a second period of active growth begins, and results in the elongation of the face, due to the increased height of the nasal fossse, the expansion of the air-sinuses, the enlarged teeth of the second dentition, and the augmented height of the alveolar arches of the jaws. Ossification becomes completed, and the adult shape and size are attained. The capacity increases but little after thirteen years of age. In later years the muscular crests develop, the frontal region elongates, and the air-passages and cells expand, the latter process continuing in old age. In old age the skull undergoes atrophy, becoming thinner, lighter, and, often a little smaller by absorption on the outer surface. The air-cells expand as the capacity diminishes, and the face becomes smaller by absorption of the alveolar processes and the loss of the teeth, causing the upper jaAV to retreat and the lower to project at the chin. Sexual Varicdions.—The male skull is larger, heavier, and of greater capacity (11 :10), especially in the frontal and occipital regions, than the female, and the ridges, occipital protuberance, mastoid processes, zygomatic arches, and frontal sinuses are more develo^jed. The female skull preserves a look of immaturity in the smaller proportion of the face, the narrower and less prominent jaws, the ]irominence of the parietal eminences, and the smoothness of the surface. Bace differences, excejit among three or more large general classes, are often so slight, taking averages, as to require accurate and uniform cranial measure- ment or craniometry fur their determination. Of the measurements the most important are the following, with the data of the average European skulls for each : (1) The capacity, 14.30 c.c, affording a convenient indication of the devel- opment of the brain. (2) The circumference, 52 cm., taken in a plane passing behind through the occipital point (or the point of the occipital bone in the median plane farthest removed from the glabella), and in front through the ophryon (or the middle of the line drawn across the narro\vest part of the fore- head). (3) The length, 17 em., from the o])hrvon to the occipital point. This is above the frontal sinus, and gives the lengtli of the brain-case only, while the maximum loigth is between the glabella and the occipital ])oint. (4) The maxi- mum breadth is the gi'eatest breadth between the parietals; the breadth at the level of the zygomata is 12.5 cm. (5) The height from the basion to the bregma is nearly the same as the breadth. The cranio-facial angle is about 96°. For the ready comparison of race-measurements the breadth and height are reduced 100 X breadth .tr height to indexes l)y comparison with the length as follows : r~n~"th '