THE WALLS OF THE CEREBROSPINAL iVXIS. 507 pletely in the view from above. Imagine it growing as the cavitv has been repre- sented to spread out—its central part (the aula) increasing little, the lateral portions much—and suppose that in the median line the wall is relatively verv thin, and almost everywhere else very thick. The result is that there is an immense mass on each side, the two separated by a deep fore-and-aft cleft, and held together by bands near the bottom of this dividing fissure. As in all other parts of the encephalon, there is substantially a bilateral symmetry in these structures; that is, the portion on one side is a reversed repetition of that on the oi)]iosite side. Seen from above each suggests by its form a half-globe ; and, although the resemblance is not observed from other points of view, the name hemiiipheres is given to these cerebral masses. If the encephalon is cut in two exactly in the middle line, and an inspection is made of the left surface of the right half, we have such a view of the first and second vesicles as is shown in Fig. 549, only that the diagram, in- stead of displaying them in contact, as they lie in nature, represents the upper of the two segments as if nearly separated from the lower by a tilting up of its hind end and a corresjiond- ing depressing of its front, the pivotal point being the region of the porta (foramen of Monro), represented by a circle at the left of the label " thala- mus " and a little above it. The red line indicates pia. Between the porta and the label is the aula (the median portion of the first vesiclej, from the front and upper part of which the porta opens into the lateral ventricle. The aula and all above and in front of it is cerebrum, the develop- ment of the first vesicle. Observe that the pia is ajiplied to the hemisphere and is reflected from it to the thalamus, which constitutes the main portion of the wall of the second vesicle. The part marked caUosum is the cut surface of the great bond of union between the hemispheres. This body reaches far into the substance of the hemisphere, and forms the roof of the lateral ventricle. In the picture all above, before, and behind the callosum is free surface of the hemi- sphere, not cut by the median incision. A little below the callosum is an arched structure, labelled/or/H'.r, cut through by the incision. Between callosum above and fornix liehjw is stretched a thin plate, the septum lucidum. Going down to the region of the second encephalic vesicle, we find that its cavity has been com- pletely exposed by the median cut, and its lateral wall, marked thalaravs, displays a free surface ; but when we look for the cavity of the first vesicle, we find only the aula and the porta ; that is to say, the front and upper part of the third ven- tricle, and the hole of communication between the third ventricle and the lateral ventricle, the last named chamber being shut from our sight by the septum lucidum. To get a view of the lateral ventricle our best plan is to slice off the mass of the hemisphere which lies over the callosum, and then to cut through the latter near the median line, removing as much of the structure as is necessary to expose the cavity beneath it. We shall tlien observe what is shown in Fig. 550. The right lateral ventricle has been unroofed by this removal and its floor is laid bare. This has a very uneven surfiice from the irregularity of the contour of the structures which form it. The intrusions of substance are due in one place to the thickening of the wall of the cavity, and in another to the infolding of the wall where it is rather thin. At the front part is an illustration of the former, the cavAate nucleus bulging into the chamber in a region where there is a bulky Dia^am to show the relations of the parts developed from the first vesicle to the parts developfd from the second vesicle. The hemisphere is tilted for- ward. (F. H. G.)