THE NERVES. 576 which runs forward and upward in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus under the fourth nerve. Between layers of dura it reaches the s])henoidal fissure, which it ])asses through in three divisions, the lachrymal, frontal, and nasal. It gives offsets to the third, fourth, and sixth nerves, as these enter the orbit. The Lachrymal Nerve is the outermost of these three divisions. It occupi(>s a separate sheath of dura, and passes by the outer angle of the sphenoidal fissure into the orbit. Here it runs along the upper border of the external rectus to the outer and the upper angle of the cavity to reach the lachrymal (" tear ") gland. Just behind the gland it gives off a branch to join the orbital branch of the supe- rior maxillary nerve, and branches to the lachrymal gland and conjunctiva, and terminates by piercing the external tarsal ligament to supply the sJcin of the upper eyelid, where it communicates with the facial nerve. The Frontal Nerve, the middle and largest division of the ojihthalmic, also enters the orbit close to the roof of the sphenoidal fissure. It runs forward on the levator palpebra; superioris, between it and the periosteum. Midway in its passage through the orbit it gives off the supratrochlear nerve, and then, assuming the name supraorbital, runs straight to the supraorbital foramen. Through this foramen it leaves the orbit accompanied by the supraorbital branch of the oph- thalmic artery, and divides into an internal and an external branch, the external branch being the larger. These pierce the orbicularis palpebrarum and frontalis very obliquely, supplying the skin of the front part of the scalp, the external branch being traceable as far as the lambdoidal suture. The supratrochlear nerve, springing from the frontal, as above described, runs forward and inward toward the pulley of the superior oblique. Near the pulley it sends a twig to join the infratrochlear branch of the nasal; and then, passing over the superior oblique tendon, it lies between the orbicularis palpebrarum and the bone, as it passes over the inner angle of the orbital arch. Here it supplies twigs to the eyelid and conjunctiva, and then pierces the frontalis to reach the skin of the forehead over the glabella. It is accompanied l)y the frontal artery. These, like all other sensory branches of the fifth nerve, ct)mmunicate with the facial. The Nasal Nerve enters the orbit between the two heads of the external rectus and two divisions of the ocnlo-motor nerve. At fii'st on the outer side of the optic nerve, it crosses it obliquely beneath the rectus superior to reach the anterior internal orbital canal, through which, accompanied liy the anterior eth- moidal vessels, it enters the cranium. In the orbit it gives of!' the sensory root to the ciliary ganglion, two long ciliary nerves, and the infratrochlear nerve. In the cranium it runs for^\'ard on the cribriform plate of the ethmoid and passes to the nasal fossa through the nasal slit. In the roof of the nose it gives off an internal or septal branch, and an external branch, and passes onward as the anterior or superficial branch in a groove on the nasal bone to become cutaneous by passing between that bone and the lateral cartilage of the nose. Branches.—(«) The branch to the ciliary r/avf/lion is a slender filament, one- quarter inch long, which is given off when the nasal nerve lies between the heads of the external rectus. It furnishes the sensory root of the ganglion. (b) One or two long ciliary nerves pierce the sclerotic near tiie optic nerve. (e) The infredrochlear nerve runs forward beneath the superior oblique, receives a communicating branch from the supratrochlear, and, passing beneath the pulley to the inner canthus, supjilies the conjunctiva, caruncle, lachrymal sac, and skin of the eyelids and nose. {d) The internal or septal branch supplies the mucous membrane on the upper and anterior part of the nasal septiun. (e) The external branch supplies the outer wall of the nose, including the anterior ends of the middle and inferior turbinated bones. (/) The anterior or superficial branch, pierces the compressor naris and is dis- tributed to the skin of the lower ]iart of the nose. Sporadic Ganglia connected with the Fifth Nerve.—Thci'c are four small gan-