THE GULLET. 713 stomach (Fig. 762). Its direction is nearly that of the part of tlie spinal column near which it runs—sliglitly curved with its concavity forward. It presents slight lateral bends of no practical importance. It gradually expands at its lower part, and then is a little constricted at its passage through the diajihragm. Excejjting during the passage through it of distending substances, its condition is one of col- lapse, its dorsal and ventral walls being in contact, its mucosa folded into longitudinal rusjpe, and the bore of the tube oblitei'ated. The mucosa, like that in tlie succeeding portions of the alimentary canal, is limited in its depths by a muscularis mucosje. Its free surface has a stratified, flattened epi- thelium. The areolar coat is thick, and contains many mucous glands, which open into the lumen. The muscular tunic dis- plays a peculiar transition from the striated variety, which alone is seen in the pharynx, to the smooth, which is the only kind t)ccurrino; in the stomach. For a short distance from the beginning we find only striped muscle ; then for a little way a mix- ture of the two varieties; and, finally, in the lower half, notliing but the muscular tissue of organic life. The inner layer is circular, the outer longitudinal. The gul- let is connected with the structures in the midst of which it lies by a sheath of areo- lar tissue. FIRST THORA- CIC VERTEBRA THE ABDOMINAL CAVITY. TWELFTH THORA CIC VERTEBRA The portion of the alimentary canal which is below the diaphragm is contained in the abdomen, and it is desirable to study this cavity before pi'oceeding to the consid- eration of the viscera which it holds. The boundary between the thorax and abdomen is made by the diaphragm. This muscle forms a dome over the belly-cavity, its highest part rising to the level of the junction of the fourth costal cartilage with the sternum, and, consequently, the abdomen greatly encroaches upon the space, which a superficial inspection of the thoracic cage would lead one to assign to the chest. The cubic capacity of the thorax is very small compared with that of the abdomen, largely owing to this invasion of its (expected) territory. The lower end of the abdomen is limited by the structures which clothe the inner surface of the bony pelvis. Muscles form the bulk of the front and lateral walls, and a good part of the dorsal, the last being completed by a portion of the vertebral column. It has a serous lining, outside of which is a fibrous or areolar tunic, wliich is variously named in different parts. (See Fasciis, pages 359-361.) Apertures in its walls give passage to numerous organs : the aorta, inferior vena cava, oesopha- gus, and various nerves, above ; the rectum, urethra, spermatic cords or round ligaments of the uterus, the vessels and nerves of the lower limbs, and, in the Fio. 762.—Oisophagus and stomach in their natural relations to the vertebral column and the aorta. (Testut.)