54 ELEMENT A R Y TISSUES. circumferential, are of periosteal formation, the remnants of an i-arlier stage of groAvth than is shown in any Haversian system. The lacunas are occupied by nucleated corpuscles, called houc-ccl/s, fine pro- cesses of which extend into the canaliculi. Ijacunte and canaliculi are character- istic of osseous tissue, and are found in all true bone. But Haversian canals are not present in plates of bone which are so thin that sufheient nourishment is afforded by blood-vessels upon their opposite surfaces, as in manv lamelke of the cancellous tissue, and frequently in a part of the lachrymal bone. LAMELLAE LACUN>E CANALICUL HAVERSIAN CANAL Fig. 43.—Diagram of the structure of osseous tissue. A small part of a transverse section of the shaft of a Ions; bone is shown. At the uppermost part is the periostt->im coverinfc the outside of the bone; at the lower- most part is the endnstiniii liiiinu the m.-irrow-cavity. Between tliese is the eompaet tissue, consisting largely of a series of Hiivcrsinn s\>lrin^, r:i(Mi l.riiiucin-iilar in outline ami iierfoniteil Ijy a central cannl. In the first one is shown only tlir ■.tvi :i iH i ii|.ii d li\ :i snsIciii; in the second is seen tin' concentric arrangement of the lamella?: and in tiie oUn rs, i ('s|i( rti\ rly, ciiinlirnli; lacuna-; lacuiue and canalicvili; the contents of the canal, artery, vein, lyniphati<', and areolnr tissue ; hniu'll;r, lacun;c, and canaliculi ; and, finally, all of the structures composing a comidcli' system, lii lwci ii the systems are circnnil'creidiiil and intermediate lamelliE, only a few of which are rejiresented as loilging lacun.c, though it is to be understood tliat lacuna' are in all parts. The yjeriosteum is seen to be made up of a fibrous layer and a vascular layer, and to have upon its attached surface a .stratum of cells. From the fibrous layer project inward the rivet-lilie fibres of Sharpey. (F. H. G.) If a thin layer is peeled off of the surface of a decalcified bone, minute projections from its under surface may be seen. Tliese are inward prolongations of the ])eriosteum, and are known as the perforating fibreft of t^hai'pcji. They are not found in Haversian systems, but only in the circumferential and interme- diate lamellte, which, as has been already said, are developed from the periosteum. They seem to contribute to the strength of the portions of bone in whicli they