229 THE SYMPHYSIS PUBIS. tuberosity, sending its falciform process along the inner margin of the ischial ramus. The free, sliarp edge of the fixlciform process is continuous with tlie poste- rior border of the ligament and witli the obturator fascia. Some fibres pass over the tuberosity into the tendon of the biceps, of which this ligament represents the proximal continuation. The direction of this ligament is from above downward, outward, and slightly forward. It assists in l^ounding the pelvic outlet and the perineum laterally, and between it and the hip-bone is a large space subdivided by the suiall or anterior sacro-sciatie ligament into the great sacro-sciatic foramen Fig. 248.—Articulations of the pelvis, rear view. (Testiit.) above and the small sacro-sciatic foramen below. This ligament lies in front of the preceding, and is triangular in form, its wide base attached to the side of the sacrum and coccyx, its apex to the ischial spine. Its deep surface is closely con- nected with the coccygeus muscle, of which it represents the thickened sheath. Thi'ough the great sacro-sciatic foramen pass the pyriformis muscle, and a!)ove the muscle the gluteal vessels and superior gluteal nerve, below tlie muscle the sciatic and interna] pudic vessels and nerves, the inferior gluteal nerve, and the nerves to the obturator internus and quadratus femoris muscles. Tiie small sacro-sciatic foramen is the smaller space below the small .sciatic ligament. It is bounded behind by the gi'eat sacro-sciatic ligament and in front by the smooth cartilage- clad surface between the ischial spine and tuberosity, over which passes the obtu- rator internus muscle. The internal pudic vessels and nerve and the nerve to the obturator internus pass in through this foramen. The Symphysis Pubis. The opposed median surfaces of the pubic bones are each covered with a thin layer of hyaline cartilage, united into a single interpubie disc hy an interposed layer of fibro-cartilage. The latter is broader in front and below, and bulges especially behind. It is attached to the surrounding ligaments on all sides, and often contains a cleft. This cleft or cavity is usually nearer the upper and back part, does not reach the surface, is not lined by synovial membrane, and is larger in the female, though not greatly affected by pregnancy. A fibrous capsule sur- rounds the joint, which is further strengthened by tendinous attachments. Tlie superior and posterior ligaments are but slightly marked transverse fibres strength-