103 ORGANS DERIVED FROM THE ECTODERM. of the groove on the clitoris do not fuse, but become greatly enlarged and form the labia luinora, and the labia majora remain separated by a depression into which the urethra, developed in this ease from the urogenital sinus alone, and the vagina, open (Fig. 119). The final arrangement of the female external 7' i -CLrTORIS -GENITAL BIDGE -GENITAL FOLD VESTI BU LE OF VAGINA PERINEUM .ANUS PRE PUCE CLITORIS LABIUM MAJUS LABIUM MINUS VESTIBULE OF VAGINA PERINEUM Fig. 119.—Development of vayjina. (Hertwig.) Fig. 120.—Development tals. (Hertwig.) il the female external geni- genitalia may thus l)e readily compared with an early stage of development of the male organs, the latter undergoing a greater amount of differentiation than those of the female. ORGANS DERIVED FROM THE ECTODERM. Of the ectoderm the derivatives are the outer layers of the skin and its appendages—hairs, nails, sudoriparous, sebaceous, and mammary glands—and the nervous .system and sense-organs. Of the former a detailed account is unnecessary here, but the nervous system recpiires due consideration. SPONGIOBLAST The Nervous System. As has been seen, the central nervous system makes its appearance as the medullaiy groove. As development proceeds the lips of the groove gradually come together, and eventually fuse, transforming the groove into the medullary canal, broader in front than behind, and running the entire length of the body. The cavity of the canal becomes the ccniral canal of the spinal cord and the ventricles of the brain, while its walls become converted into the various parts of the central nervous system. At first the cells com])osing the walls of the canal are ])rac- tically similar, but later certain of them, the neuroblasts, lying nearer the central canal, begin to proliferate rapidly, forming nerve-evils (Fig. 121), while the • remainder, the spongioblasts, scatter themselves among the nerve-cells and become the neuroglia, some of them eventually coming to line the central canal and forming the epenrhjma (endi/ma). The walls of the canal also become of unequal thick- ness, the portions in the dorsal and ventral mid-lines becoming thin and forming GERMINAL CELLS YOUNG NEUROBLAST- SPONGIOBLAST NEUROBLA Fig. 121.—Development of nerve-cells anrl neuroglia-cclls in wall of the medullary canal. (Testut and His.)