363 THE FASCIA OF THE LEG. the leg, being deficient at the places where the bony framework is subcutaneous. For example, at the inner surface of the tibia the fascia merges with the perios- teum at the borders of this area; and it is disposed in like manner at the heads of the tibia and fibula, and at the malleoli. It sends intermmcular partitions inward at several points, tlie most perfect of them being two on the outer side of the leg, which have bony attachments along the neighboring borders of the fibula, and separate the peronei longus and brevis from the front and back groups of muscles respectively. Between the muscles which are inserted into the calcaneum and the other posterior muscles is stretched the deep transverse fascia, attached to the tibia and fibula, and binding down the mus- cles in front of it. In the region of the ankle the fascia is strengthened and to some extent prolonged into the foot by a series of transverse bands, which nearly encircles the limb, each of its primary divisions being called an annular ligament. They are three in number—anterior, internal, and external. The anterior annular ligament (Fig. 420) consists of two parts, an upper and a lower. The upper band runs across the front of the leg between the anterior borders of the tibia and fibula, just above the malleoli, keeping the vertical tendons in place. The lower band begins on the outer side of the calca- neum, and splits into two layers at the outer bor- der of the peroneus tertius, one going in front and the other behind ; at the inner border of the extensor longus digitoruni the layers unite, thus forming a channel through which these two mus- cles pass. The band then divides into two branches—a superior, which goes upward to the front of the inner malleolus, and is there attached ; and a lower, which crosses to its insertion on the scaphoid and internal cuneiform bones and in the plantar fascia. These bands confine the tendons of the tibialis anterior and extensor proprius hallucis closely to the subjacent structures. Each of the last-named has a synovial sheath, but the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius have one in common. The internal annular liga- ment (Fig. 421) is stretched between the internal malleolus and the postero-inferior part of the inner surface of the os calcis. From its deep surfiice processes are given off to the neighbor- ing ridges of bone, thus forming compartments through which pass the tendons of muscles from the back of the leg to the sole of the foot, as follows : next behind the malleolus the tibialis posterior, then the flexor longus digitorum, and, finally, after an inter- val in which lie the vessels and nerves, the flexor longus hallucis. Each of the tendons has its separate synovial membrane. The external annular ligament (Fig. 422) runs from the tip of the external malleolus to the outer side of the calca- neum, binding down the peroneus longus and peroneus brevis, which are enclosed together in a single synovial membrane. Fig. 420.—The anterior annular liga- ment of the ankle and the synovial mem- branes of the tendons beneath it arti- ficially distended. (Testut.)