THE NABAL BONE. 185 processes of the palate-boues. Tlie obli(|ue anterior border joins the vertical plate of the ethmoid al)ove, and below it is grooved for the septal cartilage. The infe- rior bor-der is received into the groove of the nasal crest of the maxilla3 and palate- \ Fig. 207.—Sagittal section of face, a little to the left of the middle line, showing the vomer and its relations. (Testut.) bones. The truncated anteriw angle fits in behind the incisor crest of the maxilhe. The thin, free posterior border separates the two posterior nares. Ossification proceeds from a single centre in membrane, and forms two lamellae, which cause the absorption of the intervening cartilage. LACH RY MAL PROCESS ETHMOID PROCESS THE INFERIOR TURBINATE BONE. Each inferior turbinate bone (Figs. 208, 223) is a scroll-like lamella which separates the middle from the inferior meatus of the nasal fossa, and is attached above to the outer wall of the nose, but is free below. Its convex inner mrface, marked by pits and longitudinal grooves for vessels, ends below in the convex, thickened free border, which is rolled upon itself. The attached upper margin articulates in front with the inferior turbinate crest of the maxilla, behind which it rises ab- ruptly into the lachrymal process, which articu- lates with the lachrymal bone and helps to close 'the lachrymal canal. Behind this is the max- ilkiry process, bent downward and closing the lower part of the opening of the antrum. Above and behind the latter process the ethmoidal prrj- I cess rises to join the uncinate process of the I ethmoid. The posterior part of this margin is attached to the inferior turbinate ] crest of the palate-bone. The posterior angle is sharp, the anterior more blunt. I The outer surface is concave and grooved. Ossification.—This bone ossifies from a single centre in cartilage, and may be regarded as a detached portion of the ethmoid. THE NASAL BONE. The two oblong nasal bones (Fig. 209) form the bridge of the nose. The facial surface of each is vertically concave above and convex below, and trans- versely convex. The posterior or 7iasal surface, transversely concave, is rough Fig. 208.—Kight inferior turbinate bone, external surface. (Testut.)