216 THE ARTICULATIONS. hinge-motion in the lower compartment. When, however, the mouth is opened more and more widely, besides an increased hinge-motion, the cartilage and con- dyle glide forward onto the articular eminence. The condyle does not normally reach the summit of the eminence, l)ut when, as in a convulsive yawn, it glides over the summit, it slips into the zygomatic fossa, and there is a dislocation with rupture of the back of the capsule. As the cartilage and condyle glide forward the external lateral ligament remains always tense on account (1) of the down- wai'd movement onto the eminence, and (2) of the increased hinge-motion which the ligament allows when its obliquity is straightened by the forward movement of the condyle. The point of least motion, or the axis of motion, in the com- bined movement is approximately at the inferior dental foramen, and thus stretch- ing of the nerve is avoided. The combination of hinge and gliding motion gives a tearing; as well as a cutting- action to the incisors. (2a) There may be a simple proinmon and retraction of the lower jaw by a gliding motion in the upper compartment. A slight lowering of the rami occui's as the cartilages and condyles pass downward and forward onto the eminences. (2b) An obliquely horizontal or rotary (jrinditu/ motion is caused by the alternate gliding forward and inward on one side, and backward and inward on the other. The nerves sujjplying the joint are branches of the masseteric and auriculo- temporal. THE ARTICULATIONS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 1. The Sterno-clavicular Articulation. (Fig. 236.) The arthrodial joint between the inner end of the clavicle and the superior angle of the manubrium sterni, together with the cartilage of the first rib, is the only point of attachment of the skeleton of the shoulder-girdle and upper limb to that of the trunk. The dissimilar articular surfaces are harmonized by the inteTvemngJibro-cartilage, and are connected together by a fairly tight capsidar ligament, whose fibres pass obliquely upwai'd and outward from the circumference of the sternal to that of the clavicular facet. This cajjsule is strongest behind and in front, where it is called respectively the posterior and anterior sterno-clavic- ular ligaments. Above it is supplemented and strengthened by the dense inter- FiG. 236.—Sterno-costo-clavicular articulation, front view. The right half is seen in coronal section. (Testut.) clavicular ligament which passes between the upper and back parts of the sternal ends of the two clavicles and their capsular ligaments, and dijjs down in the middle to be attached to the hind border of the interclavicular notch of the stei'- num. Below, where the capsule is thinnest, is the strong, dense,-accessory band.