347 SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES OF THE HEAD. force is primarily directed to the chin, whicli it elevates, its practical effect is to lift the lower lip, which is carried upward by the movement of the chin, and made to protrude. Thus, it assists the lower half of the orbicularis, helping to close the opening and hold it tightly. In the play of the features Avhich the muscles about the mouth produce they almost always act in pairs, and one pair rarely acts alone. This is illustrated in the display of the opposite emotions of mirth and grief. In the former the lifters of the angles and the zygomatics draw the corners upward and outwai'd, the risorii widen the aperture still more, and the lifters of the upper lip pull it upward. In the latter the depressors of the angles drag downward the corners of the mouth, the risorii widen the slit, and the lifters of the upper lip draw it upward. In both of these cases it will be observed that the transverse crevice of the mouth is widened, the upper lips are elevated, uncovering the front upper teeth, and the angles of the uKjuth are drawn outward. By this last jirocedure the cheeks are pulled upward, and a bulging forward of the structures undi'r the orbits and a partial closure of the lower lids are thus produced. The main differ- ence, then, between the facial manifestation of joy and that of sorrow consists in the up-and-down movements of the angles of the mouth. The risorius does not deserve the name of the laughing muscle as well as does the zygomaticus major. Muscles of the Nose. Pyramidalis nasi. Levator labii superioris alaeque Compressor nnris. nasi. Depressor alse nasi. Pyramidalis nasi (Fig. 407), "the pyramidal muscle of the nose," arises at the lower border of the nasal bone, passes upward, is inserted into the skin between the brows, and by its action draws this skin downward, producing a horizontal wrinkle. The fibres often seem to be continuous with the median portion of the frontalis. Compressor Naris (Figs. 405, 407).—"The compressor of the nostril." Syno- nyms, compressor narium, " the comjjressor of the nostrils ;" comjiressor nasi, " the compressor of the nose." It arises from the nasal bone and adjacent carti- lage near the mid-line, passes downward and backwai'd, and is inserted partlv into the superior maxillary near the nasal opening, and partly into the levator labii superioris alaeque nasi. It pulls inward the muscle to which it is attached, thus wrinkling tlie nose vertically ; and it slightly compresses the nose. Levator labii superioris alaeque nasi has been described on page 346. Depressor alee nasi (Fig. 405), " the depressor of the wing of the nose," arises from the incisor fos-a of the superior maxillary bone, passes upward and outward, and is inserted into the cartilage of the wing of the nose and into the sejstum. It draws the wing of the nose downward and inward. Besides these muscles there are sometimes found two minute and indistinct bundles, which descend to the margin of the ala from the cartilages just above, and have been dignified by names which are descriptive of the slight action of these structures. They are levator proprim alcp nasi anterior, " the front proper lifter of the wing of the nose," otherwise called dilatator naris anterior, " the front widener of the nostril ; " and levator proprius ake nasi posterior, " the hind proper lifter of the wing of the nose," sometimes known as dilatator naris posterior, " the hind widener of the nostril." Finally, running from the cartilage of the wing to the skin at the tip of the nose is the inconstant and insignificant compressor narium minor, " the smaller compressor of the nostrils." Muscles of the Foeehead. Corrugator supercilii. Frontalis. Corrugator supercilii, " the wrinkler of the brow," arises from the superciliary