785 THE BLADDER. Fig. 853.—Diagram showing-meth- od of entrance of the ureter into the bladder. (F. H. G.) inward to the upper level of the saeriim, and thence forward and inward to the base of the bladder, who.se outer coat it perforates, and running obliquely between this and the inner tunic for three-quarters of an inch, opens into the cavity of the bladder by a nar- row slit, which is one and a half inch or less from its opposite fellow and from the begiiming of the urethra (Fig. 853). The practical effect of this arrangement is to prevent the I'eflux of urine from the bladder ; for, although the admission of the fluid is not interfered with, distension of the blad- der so pres.ses together the sides of the channel that not a drop can return to the ureter. Structure of the Ureter.—The ureter has three coats : an inner or mucous, a middle or muscular, and an outer or fibrous. The viueous coat is con- tinuous with that of the bladder below and with that covering the renal papilhe above. Its epithe- lium is stratified, the upj)er layer consisting of cuboidal cells, with concavities on their attached surfaces, into which fit the blunt ends of the j^yriform cells next below, the taper ends of the latter fitting in between the processes of fusiform cells underlying them, and last of all a stratum of irregular cells. There is no well-defined submucous coat. The membrane disjilays longitudinal folds. The muscular tunic has two layers, an outer longitudinal and an inner circular. The fibrous coat is a mixture of the white and yellow varieties ; it is continuous with the renal capsule, which, entering at the hilum, is reflected upon the calices. The ureter is surrounded by areolar tissue. Branches from the renal, spermatic, internal iliac, and inferior vesical arteries supply the ureter, its veins correspond to these, its lymphatics run to the pelvic and lumbar nodes and to the receptaculum chyli, and its innervation comes through the inferior mesenteric, spermatic, and hypogastric plexuses. In its descent the nreter is behind the peritoneum all of the way. The pelvis is opposite the spine of the first lumbar vertebra. Behind the ureter are the psoas muscle, the sacro-iliac synchondrosis, and the common or external iliac vessels. It is covered in front by the spermatic vessels, and the vas deferens runs between it and the bladder. The right nreter has the vena cava inferior at its inner side. In the female the ureter courses beside the cervix uteri, but at the distance of nearly or quite half an inch, and then it obliquely crosses the upper third of the vagina. The Bladder. The bladder (vesica urinaria, " the urinary bladder," always being meant when the noun is not qualified) is the reservoir in which the urine is collected from the ureters, and contained until a convenient time for evacuation. It has four tunics : the mucous, which is that nearest the cavity, and then in order the areolar, the muscular, and the serous. The mucosa, has a stratified epithelium, similar to that of the ureter, is loosely attached to the muscular coat by the areolar, is deficient in well-defined glands and in muscularis mucosae, is smooth when sjn-ead out by accumulation of urine, but, during the empty condition is thrown into irregular rugae, excepting in a small, triangular space (frigonum) between the o]5enings of the ureters and the urethra. This little area is never wrinkled, but is marked in the median line by a slight ridge, the uinda vesicce. The muscular tunic has an onter, longitudinal layer, which runs sagittally ; inside of this a stratum in which the filjres are intricately and irregularly criss-crossed, but have a general transverse (circular) direction, and internal to this an imperfect, thin, longitudinal layer. The serous coat is a reflection of the peritoneum, and is only a partial tunic, covering the superior surface, and the upper and hind part 50