690 THE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SEJSSES. it into an anterior and a posterior chamber, whicli, however, are continuous tlu'ough the pupil. The aqueous humor is tliought to be secreted in the jiosterior chamber, Avhence it finds its way through the pu])il into the anterior cliamber. From tliis it is drained away tlirough tlie spaces of Fontana into the canal of Schlemm. Although the vitreous, the aqueous, and the lens ai'e commonly spoken of as the " refracting media " of the eye, it should be understood that of the three the lens alone has any considerable eft'ect in changing the direction of the rays of light, which enter the eye, and furthermore, that the cornea, often referred to as if it had an indifferent influence in this regard, is really very powerfully refrac- tive. THE MUSCLES OF THE EYEBALL. There are seven muscles (Fig. 738) in the cavity of the orbit, but only six are attached to the eyeball. These are arranged in three opposing pairs, viz., the mpe- rior and inferior redi, the internal and external recti, and the superior and inferior obliqui. All except the inferior oblique arise from the immediate vicinity of the optic foramen, either from the bone-surface or from an aponeurotic ring, the ligd- ment of Zinn, which is attached around the uj^per, inner, and lower edges of the foramen, and In'idges over the sphenoidal fissure. The external rectus is attached to this latter part, as well as to the bones on each side of the fissure. Hence the FiG.738—Muscles of right eye, viewed from above. (Testut.) two heads, from which it is said to arise, are really continuous. The superior rectus has some attachment to bone above the foramen and to the sheath of the optic nerve, as well as to the a]ioneurotic ring referred to. The sujierior oblique arises wholly from bone beyond the ring and above the inner edge of the foramen. Diverging as they come forward, the four recti go straight to their insertions into the sclerotic in front of the equator, and on the aspects of the eyeball cor- responding to their names. The superior oblique courses upward, inward, and forward to the supero-internal angle of the orbit, where it passes through a fibro-