548 THE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. mesial side of the h_%-poglossa] nerve and parallel to it. Following the hypo- glossal dorsally we find it terminating in a nucleus in the floor of the fourth ven- tricle ; and its accessory nucleus near the olive is connected ■uith its main nucleus bv a band. Partly merged with this accessory nucleus is the nucleus ambiguus, which is the motor centre of certain mixed nerves, and a band parallel to that joining the two hypoglossal nuclei connects the ambiguus with a mass of grav in the floor of the ventricle—the sensory nucleus of the same mixed nerves. Fol- lowing the line of the pneumogasti'ic nerve, we see that it courses through a mass of gray tissue, a sprout from which is the cuneate nucleus, and its rounded end the head of the dorsal horn—a name which will be appreciated a little later, when the various nuclei are brought together. Capping the head of the dorsal horn is a bunch of fibres, constituting a root of the fifth nerve—the trifacial; and between the sensory and cuneate nuclei is a bundle known as the solitary fasciculus. A parallel section through the lover end of the olives shows a different arrange- ment (Fig. 607). The general outline approaches the circular, the tenth nerve is NUCLEUS GRACILIS NUCLEUS CUNEATUS BASE or VENTRAL HORN ROOT OF TRIFACIAL CAPPING HEAD OF DORSAL HORN PNEUMOGASTRIC NERVE LEMNISCUS VENTRAL PYRAMID Fig. dul.—Transrerse section of the oblongata at the lo-sver end of the olives. (Tesrut. after Dnral.) near the transverse axis, and the nuclei dorsal to it are larger and nearer to each other. The pyramid Ls smaller; the fillet has spread out, and its lateral edge is almost at the surface; the corrugated nucletts of the olive is shrunken, its mesial accessory nucleus is larger, its other accessory has disappeared ; in the lateral area appears the head of the ventral horn, the base of the same occupying a median position at the focal point of the tenth and twelfth nerves ; just dorsal to the base of the ventral horn is that of the dorsal horn, from which curves dorsally the nucleus gracilis (Groll), separated but a little from its lateral companion, the