516 THE CEREBBO-SPINAL AXIS. parallel with the longitudinal. As has already been seen, the upturned end of the Sylvian fissure is witliin tlie parietal lobe. The gyri are the pod-central (poste- rior central, ascending parietal) just behind the central fissure ; the xupcrior parietal, above tlie intraparietal fissure; the supra-mare/inal, aV)ove tlie hind part of the Sylvian fissure and arching over its end ; and the a)i(/nlar, which occupies the remainder of the area, and is at the lower, rear corner of the lobe. Continuous with the lateral surface over the edge of the longitudinal fissure is the mesial surface of the parietal lobe ; but it has less width tlian the external surface, inasmuch as the calloso-marginal fissure does not end coincidently with the central, but a little to its rear, and the dilFerence makes an addition to the frontal lobe by subtraction from the expected domain of the parietal. The mesial parietal gyri make a four-sided area, called the precuneus, from its relation to the wedge-shaped occipital gyrus adjoining, and "quadrate lobule" from its squarish shape. Occipital Gyri (Figs. 560-563).—The convex area of the occipital lobe is con- ventionally divided into three gyri by two fissures; but these are very inconstant and irregular, and the typical arrangement is apparently not yet discovered— Fig. 563.—The mesial and tentorial surfaces of the left liemisphere, showing the gyri. The fissures have been named in Fig. 55S. certainly it is not agreed upon by the anatomists of the largest observation. The triangular form of the mesial occipital surface has led to its being named cuneus (" wedge "). It is continuous with the convex surface over the edge of the longi- tudinal fissure. Temporal Gyri (Figs. 560, 562, 563).—The temporal (temporo-sphenoidal) lobe is marked I)y three fissures, which have a general fore-and-aft direction, two of them appearing on the lateral surface, and being called I'espectively the first or superior temporal or parallel fismre (the latter name from its relation to the pos- terior limb of the Sylvian fissure) and the second ov inferior temjjoral Assure. The third temporal fissn)-e is largely on the line between the lateral and under surfaces. The front half of the collateral fissure separates the temporal from the limbic lobe, and its rear half lies in the hind part of the temporal. The temporal gyri are the first (superior), the second, (middle), and the third (inferior) on the outer surface, and, on the base or tentorial surface, the suhcollateral, which is beneath the collateral fissui-e, and the subcalcarine, which lies between the calcarine fissure and the rear of the collateral. Limbic Gyri (Figs. 562, 563).—The limbic lobe consists primarily of the eal- losal gyrus, which arches over the callosum, and the continuation of this which courses forward on top of the temporal lobe, and is known as the hippocampal, or