449 THE ARTERIES. POSTERIOR Tl BIAL skin, superficial and deep fasciae are divided, and the fibular origin of the soleus then comes into view. This is divided, and the deep transverse fascia is exposed; this is also divided, and the artery is found accompanied by vense comites, either lying on or in the muscular substance of the flexor longus hallucis. The nutrient artery from the poste- rior tibial is a vessel of large size, which enters the nutrient foramen in the tibia on its posterior surface. The com- municating branch passes from the pos- terior tibial outward just above the ankle-joint to anastomose with a simi- lar branch from the peroneal. The Internal Calcanean Arteries are given off from the posterior tibial just above the ankle; they supply the tis- sues of the heel. The position of these vessels is of importance in amputations, such as Syme's and PirogofF's. Care should be taken not to injui'e these ves- sels in making the heel flap, because, if they are injured, sloughing is apt to result. The terminal branches of the poste- rior tibial are the internal and external plantar. The Internal Plantar (Fig. 485) arises from the posterior tibial at the inner ankle, passes forward along the inner side of the foot, and terminates at the inner side of the great toe. It supplies the inner side of foot and great toe. The External Plantar is a vessel of large size; it passes outward and for- ward to the base of tlie metatarsal bone of the little toe, being covered by the plantar fascia. It then winds inward and forward on bases of the metatarsal bones to the interosseous space between the great and second toes, and here anastomoses with the deep, communicat- ing branch from tlie dorsalis pedis, thus completing the plantar arch. Variations.—The plantar arteries vary somewhat in size. In some cases the internal plantar is larger than usual, and supplies two or more toes, the ex- ternal plantar being correspondingly smaller. Penetrating wounds of the jjlantar arch may give rise to severe hemorrhage. This, however, can usually be controlled by pressure, or by a free dissection, the bleeding points being found and ligated. The Branches of the External Plantar are small musculax", cutaneous, and articular branches to the contiguous muscles, integument, and joints, and the posterior perforating and digital branches. The -posterior perforating are small trunks which perforate the second, third, and fourth interosseous spaces to com- municate with the dorsal interosseous arteries. The digital arteries are four in number, and sujjply the outer side of the little toe and the contiguous sides of 29 Fig. 485.—Arteries in the sole of tlie foot. (Testut.)