THE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SENSES. 694 SUPERIOR FORNIX junctival fornix. It is deeper in the upper tlian in the lower lid. To that part of the lid to which the skin is elosely adherent on the outside the conjunctiva is equally adherent on the inside. Over the rest of the lid, and over the eyeball as far as the cornea it is comparatively loose. On the cornea it adheres firmly. The palpebral conjunctiva is thick, vascular, and highly sensitive. On the sclerotic the ocular conjunctiva becomes thin and transparent, and in the healthy condition is only slightly vascular. On the cornea it becomes reduced toalaver of stratified, flattened epithelium, several cells deep. Just outside the caruneula lachrymalis there is a semilunar fold of conjunctiva stretching between the lids with its concavity toward the cornea. This is the plica .se))iilunaris, the rudimentary homologue of the mem- brana nictitans, or third eyelid, in birds. INFERIOR FORNIX Fig. 741.—Sagittal section of eye, showing superior and inferior fornices of the con- junctiva, (Testut.) The Lachrymal Gland (Fig. 742). This organ is situated in the upper, outer, and anterior part of the orbital cavity, occupying a fossa in the orbital plate of the frontal bone at the inner side of the external angular process. It rests U])on the upper and outer aspect of the eyeball (separated from it by conjunctiva) between the attachments of the superior and external recti. It consists of two portions, partially separated by a fibrous septum, an upper, larger part lying against the orbital roof, and a smaller, lower part, which reaches forward almost to the margin of the orljit, and outward as far as the external canthus. The ducts of the gland, seven or eight in number, open in a row on the upper and outer part of the palpebi'al conjunctiva near the fornix. Tiie progressive closure from without inward of of the lids in winking disperses the lachrymal secretion over the whole surface of the eye, and tends to collect it in the lacus lachrymalis. Hei'e it is sucked into the lachrymal canals through tut.) the puncta, which ai'e applied closely to the surface of the eye, and is conveyed by them to the lachrymal sac, into which they open separately, or by a common tube. From this it is conveyed downward through the nasal duct into the inferior meatus of the nose, where it helps to moisten the inspired air. The lachrymal canals are first vertical in direction in both lids, then horizontal and convergent inward—points to be remembered in attempts to pass a probe or bristle. The lachrymal sac is the upper enlarged end of the nasal duct. Its upper extremity is blind, and reaches higher than the openings of the canals. It is lodged in the groove formed by the lachrymal bone and superior maxilla, and is continuous below with the nasal duct. Both Ibrm a tube of mucous membrane, which is continuous with that of the nose below and with the conjunctiva above. The bony canal in Avhich this tube lies is lined throughout by periosteum, between Avhich and the mucous membrane there is a layer of loose, connective tissue. This is particularly abundant around the lachrymal sac, thus allowing considerable distension of that organ. Fig. 742.—The lachrymal apparatus of the right eye. (Tes-