L YMPH-yODES. 487 a.^peets than upon the outer and extensor. They are especially numerous at the junction of the skin with mucous membrane. The deep lymph-vessels accompany the blood-vessels. There is free communication between the vessels of the same set; but there is no connection between the superficial and deep, except as they empty into the same nodes. Ultimately the lymphatics end in veins; and thus the lymphatic system is seen to be an adjunct to the blood-vascular system. The lymph mingles with tlie venous blood, and the leucocytes, which Avere lymph-corpuscles a moment ago, are colorless blood-corpuscles now. There are two points at which the lymph is poured into the blood, one on each side, where the internal jugular and subclavian veins unite to form the brachio- cephalic (Fig. 516). On the right side the vessel, called the right lymphatic dud, is an inch or less in length, and receives the lymph from the right side of the head, neck, and chest, the right lung, the right heart, the right upper limb, and the upper surface of the liver. A double valve guards its proximal opening. On the left side the vessel, called the left lymphatic duct, or, more commonly, the thoracic duct, is a large trunk, which has its tributaries in all portions of the body not just enumerated. The parts drained by each are suggested with practical accuracy by a glance at Fig. 515. The thoracic duct begins in a pear-shaped dilatation, called the receptaculum chyli, situated in front of the second lumbar vertebra. It runs upward at the right of the aorta to the level of the fourth thoracic vertebra, where it passes behind that great vessel and the left subclavian artery, and then arches outward and downward to its termination. It is as large as a goose-quill, and from fifteen to eighteen inches long. It has numerous valves, a double one standing at its junction with the venous system. LYMPH-NODES AND OTHER LYMPHADENOID STRUCTURES. Besides the lymph-vessels, which have just l)een described, the lymphatic system comprises a large amount of a compound tissue, known as lymphadenoid tissue. The framework of this material is adenoid reticular tissue (see page 50), and in its meshes are irregular masses of leucocytes. This lymphadenoid tissue exists in several forms, which differ from each other mainly in the degree of their compactness, some being firm, well-defined, and encapsuled, others extremelv diffuse, and still others presenting various stages intermediate to these. Sometimes, as in the mucous membrane of the intestines, the peculiar material is infiltrated, has no clearly defined boundaries, and hence is called diffuse lymjjh- adenoid tissue. It is a mere network of adenoid reticular tissue enclosing colorless corpuscles. A step beyond this condition occur small masses in the submucous or subserous memi^rane, distinctly defined, and encircled by a series of lymph- vessels. A typical example of this class is seen in the so-called solitary glands of the intestine. "When a number of such bodies are grouped into a coherent mass, the resulting structure is known as an agminated gland. Somewhat more distinct aggregations of lymphadenoid tissue, encased in a well-marked capsule, are frequently found located in small depressions in mucous membrane, illustra- tions of which are seen in the tongue, the tonsils, and the pharynx. The most sharply defined collections of lymphadenoid tissue are the lymph- nodes—commonly, but less appropriately, called lymphatic glands. They are not, as are the varieties mentioned above, connected directly with a mucous sur- face ; they always are furnished with a distinct capsule, which maintains their characteristic form ; and they always occur in the course of lymph-vessels. LYMPH-NODES. A lymph-node (Fig. 517) is a small, roundish or ovoid body, situated in the course of a lymph-vessel. Upon its proximal aspect is usually a little depression