THE URINARY SYSTEM. 792 longitudinal rows. Half an inch or more from the meatus externus in the ante- rior surface is a very large depression, nearly covered by a valve-like fold and, called lacuna magna, "thegreat lacuna." In any of the larger pits the point of a fine instru- ment may catch, with results diagnostically misleading and t h e r a p e u t i c a 11 y injurious. Doubtless, also, the ol)stinacy of gonorrhreal inflammation is often due to the concealment of the specific virus in some of these recesses, beyond tlie reach of to])ical remedies. It will be seen that there are many open- ings n])on the surface of the membrane—those of mucous follicles, racemose glands, pros- tatic glands, ejaculatory ducts, the uterus masculinus, and the lacunse ; to which array must be added the mouths of the ducts of Cowper's glands, in the proximal part of the spongy urethra, the glands them- selves being situated one on each side between the tM'o layers of the triangular ligament, close to the memljranous ]iortion of the tube. Tlie mucous membrane is surrounded by an areolar coat of great elasticity, in the meshes of which are large numbers of convoluted vessels, mostly venous, a tissue similar to the true erectile tissues being thus constituted. Outside of this is a coat of undriped vni.^cle in two layers, the inner being longitudinal in the dis- position of its fasciculi, the outer circular. The whole is enclosed in a fibrous tunic of variable thickness. In the upper part of tlie prostatic portion the circu- lar muscular layer is thick, and is sometimes spoken of as the sphincter of the bladder ; but it should be called the internal sphincter of tlie urethra. This should not be confounded with the structure of striped muscle which surrounds the membranous portion above the triangular ligament, and is the external fipthiitcter of the urethra. The compressor uretlu'te embraces the membranous portion in the space between the two layers of this ligament. PROBE IN /LACUNA MAGNA -SKIN =ilDE OF URETHRA •LARGE LACUNA -SPONGY BODY—cut surfacB MEDIAN LACUNAE CORPUS SPONGIOSUM Fig. 863.—The distal portion of the male urethra, laid open on its posterior (under) surface, showing the lacuna?. (Testut.)