THE MUSCLES. 330 or seven tlioracic vertehriie and the last cervical, and from the articnlar processes of cervical vertebrae from the third to the sixth. It is inserted into the occipital l)one, on the mesial part of the snrface between the cnrved lines. The ])ortion nearest the middle line is somewhat detached, and has a tendinons inscription about half way of its length, on account of wliich it is often reckoned as a separate muscle, the hiveiitcr errricis. It extends the head, drawing it to one side. Its nerve-supply is from several upper cervical nerves. Semispinalis cervicis (Fig. 392), the name meaning " the muscle of tlie neck, one extremity of which is attached to spinous processes," arises from the transverse processes of the upper five or six thoracic vertebme, and is inserted into the spinous processes of cervical from the second to the fifth. It extends the neck, and rotates it to the opposite side. Its nerves are branches from the lower cervical and upper thoracic. Semispinalis dorsi (Fig. 392), " the muscle of the back, one end of which is attached to spinons processes," arises tVom the transverse processes of thoracic vertcbne from the sixth to the tenth, and is inserted into the spinous processes of the last two cervical and of the n]>per four, five, or six thoracic vertebrae. Its principal action is extension of the lower cervi- cal and npper thoracic regions. It is snp2)lied by thoracic spinal nerves, Multifidus (Fig. 392), " the many-cleft muscle," occnpics the greater part of the gutter Ix'sidc the vertebral spines from the sacrum to the axis. Its fibres pass from some ]iart (usually a process) of one vertebra to tlie s])inons processes of several vertcbne above it, generally the second, third, and fourth. It arises from the groove on the back of the sacrum, the mammillary processes in the lumbar region, the transverse in the thoracic region, and the articular of the lower four cervical vertebrae, and is inserted into all the spinous processes of the true ver- tebr.'e. It extends, bends sidewise, and rotates to the opposite side the spinal column. The posterior branches of the spinal nerves supply it. Rotatores, rotators of the s]iine, lie covered in by the multifidus, and are by some regarded as part of it. They are constant only in the thoracic region, are eleven in number, and each passes between the transverse process of one vertebra and the lamina of the next al)ove. They produce rotation of the spine to the opposite side, and also bend it backwar<l and sidewise. Their nerves are the thoracic. In the cervical and luml)ar regions are found a series of small muscles, called inferspinalcs, which pass from one sjnnous process to the next above ; and another series, the iyifoiransro'Sd/cft {l)de)irans!rcr!<(trii), which connect one transverse pro- cess with the next above. The former assists in extension of the spine, the latter in its lateral flexion. 393.—Trachelo-mastoid (Testut.) Suboccipital Muscles. Rectus capitis posterior major. Rectus capitis posterior minor. Obli(pms capitis inferior. Obliquus capitis superior. Rectus Capitis Posterior Major (Fig. 392).—The name means literally "the greater straight hind muscle of the head." It arises from the spine of the axis,