THE MUSCLES. 332 inclusion of the rectus by these tendons obtains, however, only in the upper three- fourths of its extent: the tendons all pass in front of the muscle in the lower quarter, leaving the corresponding hind surface free. Pyramidalis (Fig. 394).—" The pyramidal muscle." It arises from the front of the OS pubis, runs up in the sheath of the rectus a short distance, and is inserted in the linea alba. It is very inconstant in presence, size, and shaj^e. It is adjunct to the rectus. Oljliquus Extemus Abdominis (Fig. 395).—" The external oblique muscle of the abd(jmen." Slbudion, superficial, in the side and front walls of the bellv. Origin, the outer surface of the lower eight ribs. Direction, downward in the hind part; downward, forward, and inward elsewhere. Insertion, the front half of the outer lij) of the iliac crest, the pubic spine and crest, the ilio-pectineal line, and the linea alba. The points of origin make a saw-toothed line, the upper digitations interlocking with similar points of the serratus magnus, the lower with those of the latis- simus. The tendon of insertion is a broad sheet, Avhich passes to the mid-line, and there fuses with its fellow opposite and with the tendons of the external ol)li(jue and transversalis. The part of the tendon extending from the anterior superior iliac spine to the pubic spine is thicker than the rest, and its edge is curled backward, forming a narrow shelf. This thick part is the inguinal ligament, commonly called Pou- part's ligament. From its pubic end extends back- ward to the neighboring extremity of the ilio- pectineal line a flat, triangular process, having a free, concave outer border, and known as Gimbernat's ligament, or the lacunar ligament. Just above the pubic body the tendon presents an opening, the exter- nal abdominal ring (Fig. 396), which results from a separation of the fibres. The a])ertnre slopes upward and outward, and would be triangular Avere it not for certain fibres, which cross all but the lowest and widest inch of it, and are called intercolumnar, because they are between the pillars, as the inner (upper) and outer (loAver) edges of the tendon, Avhich margin the sides of the hole, are called. The inner pillar runs to the svmphysis, the outer to the spine of the pulnc bone. Thus, the ring is bounded below by the pubic crest, above by the inner pillar, outside by the inter- columnar fibres, and elsewhere by the outer pillar. The ring is occupied by the s])ermatic cord in the male, by the round ligament of the Avomb in the female. Action, compression of abdominal viscera, rotation of the pelvis to the same side, flexion of pelvis on chest. Nerves, the loAver intercostal, ilio-inguinal, and ilio- hvpogastric. Obliquus Intemus Abdominis (Fig. 394).—" The internal oblique muscle of the abdomen." Situation, in the side and front of the belly-wall, next deeper than the external oblique. Origin, the outer half of the inguinal ligament, two-thirds of the middle lip of the iliac crest, and, slightly, the lumbar fascia. Direction, in general, forward, inAvard and upAvard ; also, directly upAvard behind, and doAvn- Avard in front. Insertion, the lower borders of the costal cartilages from the tAvelfrh to the seventh, the ensiform appendix, the linea alba, the front of the os pubis, and the ilio-pectineal line. The portion inserted into the pubic bone and ilio-pectineal line enters into the formation of the conjoined tendon the internal oblique and transversalis. The lower portions of the internal oblique give off' a series of muscular slips, Avhich are arranged in loops in front of and embracing