THE BLOOn-VASCULAB SYSTEM. 402 Variations.—The internal carotid sometimes arises directly from the arch of the aorta. It is sometimes absent. It sometimes gives off branches in the neck, which are usually the occipital or ascending pharyngeal. Surgical Anatomy.—The vessel can be exposed for ligation by an incision along the internal border of the sterno-mastoid. The skin and su])erticial fascia should be divided, then the platysma and deep fascia ; the sterno-mastoid should be drawn to the outer side, and the external carotid to the inner side ; care should be taken in passing the needle to avoid the pueumogastric nerve and the internal jugular vein, which accompany the artery. Branches.—As a rule, the internal carotid gives off no branches of importance in the neck. (See A^ariations.) The petrous portion of the vessel is that part contained in the carotid canal. Here the artery makes two sharp turns, which are supposed to diminish the arterial pressure. From this portion of the artery a small branch is given olf to the tympanum. The cavernous portion is that part of the vessel which is in the cavernous sinus. Here the vessel gives off the following branches : the arterise receptaculi, the anterior meningeal, and the ophthalmic. The arterice receptaculi are small ves- sels Avhich supply the pituitary body and the Gasserian ganglion. The anterior meningeal artery is distributed to the dura of the anterior fossa at the base of the skull. The Ophthalmic Artery (Fig. 451) passes with the optic nerve through the optic foramen into the orbit. It passes first forward and outward, then crosses the optic nerve and passes forward and inward, runs along the inner wall of the orbit, beneath the inner portion of the orbital margin, leaves the orbit, and termi- nates by dividing into the frontal and nasal arteries. In its course the ophthal- mic artery gives off branches to the walls and contents of the orbit. These branches are the central artery of the retina, the ciliary arteries, the lachrymal, the muscular, the supraorbital, the ethmoidal, the palpebral, and the terminal branches, the nasal and frontal arteries. The central artery of the retina is given oft' from the o])hthalmic near the optic foramen. It accompanies the optic nerve, and is distributed to the retina. The vessel can be well seen in ophthalmoscopic examinations of the retina. The ciliary arteries are divided into three sets—the long, short, and anterior ciliary arteries. The short ciliary arteries are eight or ten in number, which pierce the sclerotic coat near the optic nerve, and run forward to su])plv the choroid. The long ciliary arteries, two in number, one on each side, ]>icrce the sclera some distance from the optic nerve, and run forward to suj)ply the ciliarv body and iris. The anterior ciliary arteries are branches of the muscular branches of the ophthalmic. They pierce the sclera near the coiniea and supply the ciliary body and the iris. The anterior and long ciliary arteries form an anastomosis around the outer margin of the iris, and also around the free margin of the iris. The lachrymal arteiy arises from the oi)hthalmic external to the optic nerve, passes forward and outward to the lachrymal gland, which it supplies, and, leaving the gland, sends small branches to the eyelids, known as external ])alpel)ral branches. MuscnJar branches ai'e given oflF from various por- tions of the ophthalmic in its course to supply the muscles of the globe. The supraorbital artery is a vessel of some size, which runs along the I'oof of the orbit to the supraorbital notch. Leaving the orbit at this point, it courses upward in the muscles and integument of the forehead. The ethmoidal arteries, two in number, are given off* from the ophthalmic opposite the anterior and posterior ethmoidal foramina. Entering the cranial cavity through these foramina they give off" ante- rior meningeal vessels, sup])lying the dura in the anterior fossa at the base of the skull. The anterior ethmoidal is the larger, and, after giving off" a meningeal branch, leaves the cranial cavity with the nasal nerve, passes through an opening in the cribriform plate to the nasal cavity, runs along the inner surface of the nasal bone, and supplies the tip of the nose. The palpebral arteries, two in number, the superior and inferior, supply the upper and lower lids. The nasal