THE MOUTH. 699 commonly its floor and roof are in contact, and its side walls hug the dental arches. "Between this merely potential cavity and that of Avide expansion is a great distance, within which are countless variations in shape ; but the mouth may conventionally be regarded as a rather oval, horizontal slit, presenting marked irregularities of size and form. Its virtual cavity is made real by separation of the '^lips or cheeks from the teeth, by the flattening of the tongue, or by the depression of the lower jaw. The oral space is divided by the apposed dental arches into the vestibule and the mouth projjer. The former, vestibulmn oris, has in front the lips, at the sides the cheeks, and its opposite boundaries are made by the outer surface of the gums and teeth ; the latter, caimm oris, is bounded above by the hard palate, below by the tongue and the sublingual space, in front and at the sides by the inner surfiice of the gums and teeth, and behind l)y the soft palate and the aperture beneath it by which the mouth opens into the pharynx. The two portions communicate witli one another by the gaps between the teeth and by the considerable space behind the last molar teeth. The Lips. The lips (labia), upper and lower, are musculo-membranous folds, enclosing the transverse slit which is the front aperture of the mouth. Each is attached to a jaw-bone just beyond the base of the alveolar process. The external limits have been given on page 23. From before backward they are composed of skin, muscle, areolar tissue containing glands, and mucous membrane, the last forming the free border as well as the lining. The skin, adherent to the muscle, presents no especial peculiarities, except the growth of strong hairs in the adult male. The muscular layer is mostly formed by the orbicularis oris, into which other muscles from various regions of the face are inserted. The areolar lamina is occupied by an almost continuous layer of racemose glands, called labial, which are practically identical in structure with the salivary glands. The mucous mem- brane is smooth and moist, and is reflected from the lips to the gums. A fold of it in the middle line at the junction with the gums forms a bridle, frcenum labii, for each lip. On its free border the lip is abundantly supplied with papillae. Everywhere its epithelium is flattened and stratified. The Cheeks. The surface-limits of the cheek have been detailed on page 23. A consider- able part of its surface is attached to the bones of the face; only the central portion is free, and clothed with mucous membrane, this being continnous with that of the lips, and, like it reflected to the gums. Five layers go to compose the cheek : skin, areolar tissue, deep fascia, muscle, and mucosa. The skin is continuous with that of the lips, and in the adult male is, to a large extent, covered with strong hairs. The areolar tissue is usually laden with fat-cells, these being most numerous in children and young women, and least abundant in the aged. The next layer is formed by the fasciae of the masseter and buccinator, which muscles constitute a large part of the fourth lamina. The mucous mem- brane, continued from that of the lips, is similar to it, but there is no glandular layer connected with it, as in the labial region. There are, however, a number of mucous glands, called buccal and molar, on the outer surface of the buccinator, each of which sends its excretory duct through the mucous membrane, and pours its fluid into the mouth. Here, too, the mucosa is perforated by the duct from the parotid gland. The Hard Palate. The hard palate {palatum durum) forms the roof of the mouth. Its basis is made by the palate processes of the upper jaw-bones and the horizontal plates of