THE HEART. 377 movable joints, and insure a plentiful supply of blood, when extreme flexion interferes with the direct and usual provision. When the distal end of one artery is united to the end of another, so that tlie blood can flow in either direction, the arrangement constitutes an anastomosis, because the tubes are " mouth to mouth," and is also called an inosculation, which means " a kissing by mouths." Frequently a number of arteries form many and free inosculations within a limited area, tlius making a network or plexus. Two arteries of equal size may unite, not by anastomosis, but to form a trunk, just as two venous radicles combine to constitute a larger vein. The vertebrals thus constitute the basilar artery. The Capillaries. At the periphery of the arterial system the vessels are microscopic, and con- sist of hardly more than the epithelium of the intima and a few scattered muscle- cells. When this imperfect contractile covering disappears, the vessel ceases to be an artery and becomes a capillary. The name capil- lary means hair-like; but these vessels are much finer than hairs, some of them having so narrow a lumen that a colored corpuscle of the blood cannot pass through it without being squeezed out of its normal shape. The length of a capillary is only a minute fraction of an inch. The wall of the tube is epithelial (Fig. 436), and is so thin that the materials of the blood pass through it into the sjiaces around the tissues, and the waste substances of the tissues traverse it in the opposite direction, and enter the l)lood. The capillaries are arranged in netwoi'ks. The fineness of the vessels and the size and shape of the areas between them vary greatly. Thus, in the muscles the capillaries run between the fibres, and for the most part have a direction parallel with the fibres, the longitudinal being connected by obliquely crossing vessels, and enclosing long, narrow spaces, bounded by nearly straight lines ; but in the air-vesicles of the lungs the capil- laries are tortuous, very large, irregular, and so closely placed that the distance between them in some places is less than their own diameter. Some capil- lary vessels come from veins instead of arteries. For example, the interlobular branches of the portal vein give off the capillary plexus within the lobule, and from this the blood is collected by the intralobular vein. Fig. 436.—Capillaries, showing the shajje and arrangement of the cells which make their wall. (Car- penter.) The Veins. The veins are vessels which conduct the blood from the periphery toward the centre of the vascular system. They begin where the capillaries end. As the loss of the last semblance of a middle coat changes an arteriole into a capillary, so the addition of a tunic, however scanty, to a capillary converts it into a venule (" little vein "). The venous system is comparable to the portion of a tree which is in the ground. It begins in rootlets at the distal end of the capillaries (Fig. 437). These minute veins are properly called radicles, and the same term is used to designate veins of any size, which by their confluence form a larger ves- sel. They are often called branches instead of radicles ; but the term " branches " should be restricted to vessels resulting from division rather than from union. The desirability of the distinction is perceived in cases where a vein divides into two or more veins. The last are clearly branches of a parent stem, but, at the same time, are radicl&s of one or more veins nearer the heart.