237 THE TIBIO-FIBULAB UNION. of attachment of the semihmar cartilages allows them to adapt themselves to the differently curved surfaces of the femur. As the knee is moved from the flexed to the extended position the crucial ligaments become tense, and keep pulling back the articular surface of the tibia, so that the points of contact of both tibia and femur are shifted forward. This relaxes the ligaments and allows the motion to continue. The ante- rior crucial ligament also resists the tendency of the extensor muscle to displace the tibia forward in extension. In flexion the crucial ligaments cause a shifting of the points of con- tact in the opposite direction, and the posterior crucial ligament prevents the tibia from being pulled backward by the flexor muscles. At the end of extension there is a slight outward rotation of the tibia and foot on a ver- tical axis, and at the commencement of flexion a similar rotation in the opposite direction. This is due in part to the greater length of the inner condyle, onto the outwardly directed fore part of whose articular surface the inner facet of the tibia glides forward in outward rotation at the end of extension, and backward in in- ward rotation at the beginning of flexion. Ex- tension is checked by the lateral and posterior ligaments and the anterior crucial ligament. Flexion is checked by contact of the soft parts at about 135°. In extreme flexion the liga- mentum patellte, the fore part of the capsule, and the posterior crucial ligaments are tight- ened. The relaxation of the ligaments in the partly flexed position allows an inward and out- ward rotation, on a vertical axis, in which the semilunar cartilages slide back and forth on the tibia. This rotation is impossible in the extended position owing to the tension of the ligaments. Rotation inward is checked by the anterior crucial ligament, rotation outward by the lateral liga- ments. The erect position, in which the line of gravity descends in front of the knee, is maintained, in great measure, without muscular effort by the resistance offered to over-extension by most of the ligaments. The movements between the patella and the femur are a combination of sliding and coaptation. In moving from the extended to the flexed position the lower, middle, and upper parts of the patellar facets are successively in contact with the upper, middle, and lower parts of the trochlear surface of the femur. In exti'eme flexion a narrow vertical surface on the inner side of the patellar facet is in con- tact Avith the fore part of the outer border of the inner condyle of the femur, th^ patella being tui'ned more outward by the external condyle, against which its upper and outer part rests. 3. The Tibio-fibular Union. The tibia and fibula are united at their upper and lower ends by joints, and between them by an interosseous membrane. A. The Superior Tibio-fibular Articulation.—In this joint the oval, flattened, oblique articular surface on the head of the fibula is connected with that on the external tuberosity of the tibia by a capsular ligament, strengthened in front and behind by fibres which pass downward and outward from the tibia to the fibula— Fig. 255.—Knee-joint, outer side. The synovial sacs are artificially distended. (After Poirier.)