THE NERVES. 594 cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and two branches of distribution, namely, a recurrent filament to the dura and Arnold's nerve. The gmiglioii of the trunk is fusiform in shape, one-half to three-quarters of an inch long, and about one-sixth of an inch thick. The spinal accessory nerve is closely applied to it, communicates -with it by branches entering its substance, and contributes fibres to the phaiyngeal and superior laryngeal nerves, Avhich course over its outer surface. The hypoglossal nerve winds round it and com- municates with it. It also communicates with the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and with the loop between the first and second cervical nerves; and the ])haryngeal and superior laryngeal branches of the pneumogastric are derived partly from this ganglion, partly from the spinal accessoiy. Branches.—(o) The communicating branches have just been sufficiently noticed with the two ganglia. (6) The recurrent branch is given oif from the root-ganglion. It is distributed to the dura round the jugular foramen. (e) The auricular branch, or nerve of Arnold (Fig. 648), arises from the root- gauglion. After receiving a filament from the petrous ganglion of the glosso- pharyngeal, it passes backward on the outer surface of the jugular sinus, and enters a small canal in the jugular fossa of the petrous bone. In this canal it arches back- ward close to the inner side of the aque- ductus Fallopii, communicating Avith the facial nerve, and curving downward, issues from the temporal bone through the auricu- lar fissure, between the external auditorv meatus and the mastoid process. It now divides into two parts, one of which joins the posterior auricular branch of the facial nerve, while the other supplies the lower and back part of the external auditorv canal and the skin on the back of the pinna. {(I) The pharyngeal branch may be single, or represented by two or three, of which one is usually large. It comes off' from the trunk-ganglion, and is largely formed of fibres derived from the pars accessoria of the eleventh nerve. Running downward and forward sujjerficial to the internal carotid artery, it winds inward behind the external carotid artery to the back of the pharynx, where it joins the pharyngeal plexus. (e) The superior laryngeal nerve, springing also from the ganglion of the trunk, is, like tlic last, dci-ivcil largely from accessory fibres. It is much larger tlian the pliaryngeal In'anch, and ])asses downward and forward on the deep sur- face of the internal and external carotid arteries. After receiving communicating branches from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic and 2)haryngeal plexus, it divides into the internal and external laryngeal nerves. The internal laryngeal branch perforates the thyrohyoid memlirane under cover of the thyrohyoid muscle, accompanied by the laryngeal branch of the superior thyroid arter}'. It breaks up into diverging branches Mhich su]iply the mucf)us meml)rane on both surfaces of the epiglottis, the interior of the larynx, and the back of the cricoid cartilage, the descending l)r:uich forming a loop behind the ala of the thyroid cartilage with the recurrent laryngeal nerve. The external laryngeal branch runs downward under the sternothyroid mus- cle to end mainly in the cricothyroid muscle, supjilying on the way branches to the inferior constrictor of the pharynx, pharyngeal plexus, laryngeal mucous membrane, and a twig which joins one of the cardiac branches of the sympathetic. (/) The inferior or recurrent laryngeal nerve differs somewhat in its course on the two sides of the body (Fig. 049). TO EXTERNAL AUDITORY AURICULAR FISSURE TWIG TO FACIAL ARNOLDS FORAMEN TO POSTERIOR AURICULAR OF FACIAL FROM GLOSSOPHARYNGEAL AURICULAR BRANCH OF VAGUS ler.) Fig. 648.—Plan of Arnold's nerve. (W. Keil-