THE EYE. 687 down in two strata, an outer pigmented stratum, wliich lines the inner surface of the middle coat, and an inner stratum, which differs in diiferent parts. Beneath the choroid is the retina propir, the part directly engaged in vision. It reaches from the optic entrance to the outer or posterior limit of the ciliary zone, where it terminates in an indented border, the ora serrata. Beyond this the inner stratum exists as a single layer of unpigmented, columnar epithelium, with no admixture of nerve-fibres, and is called the pars ciliaiis retina;. It reaches to and over the tips of the ciliary processes, whence it is continued as a pigmented layer, paj's iridica. retina, to the pupillary border of thi' iris. Here it doubles outward upon itself and becomes continuous with the outer pigmentary stratum. Thus there is on the hind surface of the iris a double layer of pig- mented epithelium, belonging developmentally to the retina. The inner surface of the retina proper rests upon the vitreous body. In its centre, and hence in the axis of the eyeball, is the macula lutea or yellow spwt, the point of acutest vision. The fovea centralis is the name given to a dimple or depression in the middle of the macula lutea. About ^ inch to the nasal side of the yellow spot is the pale disc of the porus opticus {" oiAic passage"). Here the optic nerve appears through the retina, and spreads out to form its innermost layer. From the centre of the porus opticus the arteria^ centralis retinxe emerges, dividing into an upper and a lower brauch. These again divide and subdivide dichotomously giving oifsets to the I'ctina till they reach the ora serrata. Their ramifications anastomose neither Avith one another nor with any other vessels. The corresponding veins converge toward the porus opticus, where they enter the optic nerve in two divisions, which soon unite. Retiual vessels are absent near the macula lutea. All these objects, but not the retina itself, are visible in an ophthalmoscopic view of the fundus of the eye. The veins apjiear darker and larger than the arteries. The general, red reflex which pervades the interior comes from the vessels of the chorio-capillaris. The retina is a very complex membrane, consisting of several layers of nerve- cells, and specialized nerve-epithelium, all held together by susteutacular fibres (of Miiller), which pass vertically through the layers from the inner almost to the outer surface. The limits of this book ])reclude a detailed account of the structure of this interesting organ, but some idea of its comj^lexity may be gathered from Fig. 737. What is definitely known and what may usefully be introduced here are embraced in the following statements : 1. The layer of rods and cones and the overlying pigmented cells are the only parts molccularly affected by light. 2. Except between the nerve-fibres of the innermost layer and the nerve- cells of the adjacent layer, there is no direct anatomical continuity between the elements of the different strata. An appjarent exception occurs in the case of the outer nuclear layer; but it is only apparent, for here the granules are not separate elements, but swellings on the axis-cylinder processes of the rods and cones. 3. The retina with the optic nerve may practically be regarded as a nerve chain of three links establishing connection between the rods and cones (the special sensory cells of the retina) and the brain cells, from which the fibres of the optic nerve come off. These links are— (1) The rods and cones with their axis-cylinders (including the outer gran- ules). (2) The bipolar cells of the inner nuclear layer with their axis-cylinders. (3) The ganglionic nerve-cells and the optic nerve-fibres which, as before intimated, are in direct anatomical continuity. 4. The two molecular layers mark the situations at which connections are made between these nerve links. Thus, in the outer molecular layer the axis- cylinders of the rods and cones connect by arborization and interlacement with