282 THE MUSCLES. thumb ; inner head ment. Direction, downward and outward. Insertion, the whole shaft of the metacarjial bone of the thumb on its radial side and anterior aspect. Action, flex- ion and inward rotation of the first metacarpal bone. Nerve, the median. Flexor Brevis Pollicis (Fig. 309).—" The short flexor of the thumb." Situation, deep in thenar eminence. Origin, outer (superficial) head : the trapezium and the outer two-thirds of the annular ligament ; inner (deep) head : the proximal ]iart of the first metacarpal on the ulnar side. Direction, downward and outward. Insertion, outer head : the outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the the inner side of the same. In each tendon of insertion is a sesamoid bone. Action, flexion of the first phalanx of the thumb. Nerves, outer head : the median ; inner head : the ulnar. Flexor Longus Pollicis (Figs. 306, 319).— " The long flexor of the thumb." Situation, deep in the front part of the forearm, and on the pal- mar aspect of the thumb. Origin, the anterior surface of the radius from the oblique line to the upper line of the pronator quadratus, the adjacent part of the interosseous membrane, and sometimes the base of the coronoid process of the ulna. Direction, downward to the wrist, then downward and outward. Insertio7i, the front of the base of the last phalanx of the thumb. Action, flexion of the last phalanx of the thumb. Nerve, the ante- rior interosseous branch of the median. Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis (Figs. 320, 321).—" The extensor of the metacarpal bone of the thumb." Synonym, abductor longus pol- licis, " the long abductor of the thumb." Situa- tion, deep in the lower two-thirds of the back of the forearm and in the radial side of the wrist. Origin, small areas beh^w attachments of supi- nator on both radius and ulna, and the inter- osseous membrane between these surfaces. Di- rection, downward and outward. Insertion, the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. Ac- tion, extension and abduction of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. Nerve, posterior interosseous branch of the nuisculo-sjiiral. Extensor Brevis Pollicis (Figs. 320, 322).— " The short extensor of the thumb." Synonym, extensor primi internodii pollicis, " the extensor of the first phalanx of the thumb." Situation, deep in the lower half of the back of the fore- arm on the outer side, and in the metacarpus. Origin, a small area of the radius, just below the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and the ad- jacent portion of the interosseous membrane. Direction, downward and outward. Insertion, the back of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. Action, extension of the thumb. Nerve, the posterior interosseous branch of the musculo- spiral. Extensor Longus Pollicis (Figs. 320, 323).— " The long extensor of the thumb." Synonyv}, extensor secundi internodii pol- licis, " the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb." Situation, deep in the lower half of the back of forearm and in the thumb. Origin, the middle third of Fig. 319—Flexor longus pollicis of right side : outline and attachment-areas. (F. H. G.)