63 THE NERVOUS TISSUES. NERVE CELL.— NAKED AXIS-CYLINDER AXIS-CYLINDER CLOTHED WITH MEDULLARY ..-DENDRITES. AXIS-CYLINDER PROCESS. -COLLATERAL BRANCH. MEDULLARY SHEATH. 1 -AXIS-CYLINDER. AXIS-CYLINDER CLOTHED WITH MEDULLARY - SHEATH AND NEURILEMMA. NEURILEMMA. main difference in the presence or absence of a certain coat. The simplest, because least clothed, of the fibres are small, pale, fibrillated, nucleated threads of tissue, whose component fibrillse are the minutest independently recognizable portions of the tissue. Such a thread is called a pale fibre, and also bears the name " non-medullated," on account of the lack of the tunic which distinguishes the other kind. It sends off mi- nute filaments at a right angle with its course soon after emerging from the cell, and then continues without fur- ther branching until near its end, where it divides into bundles of fibrilke, each of which splits up into smaller bundles, and so on, until the fibre has frayed out into its ultimate filaments. Besides the pale fibres is a more numerous class, called irhite or medullatcd fibres. A typical representative of this variety has three parts, of which the first and essential is centrally located, and from this fact is named the axis- c}/iinder (axis-band or axial fibre). The axis-cylinder is like a pale fibi'e, being fibril- lated, giving otf fine, lateral twigs near its origin, and di- viding into its ultimate fibril- lar at its periphery in the same manner. Outside of the axis-cyl- inder is a thick, insulating tunic, composed of a soft, oily material (myelin), and known as the medidlary nhenth or white substance of Schwann. Surrounding this first coat is a second, very delicate and thin, but sufticiently strong to keep the medullary sheath in shape. It is called the priinitive sheath, ncnrilemma (" nerve-hvisk"), or nucleated sheath. The medullary sheath is evenly spread upon the axis-cylinder, excepting at regular intervals, where it is lacking for a minute space, thus leaving the primitive sheath as the sole covering of the fibre. At these places the fibre presents the aj>pearance of being encircled with a cord so tightly as to squeeze the medullary substance away from the ]xirt. These constrictions are known as the nodes of Ranvier, and the lengths of fibre between them are called the internodes (Fig. 62). AXIS-CYLINDER CLOTHED WITH NEURILEMMA. NAKED AXIS-CYLINDER.' TERMINAL BRANCHES. Fig. 62.—a neuron. (Stohr.)