72 ELEMENTARY TISSUES. glands, of the pancreas, and of the liver, to the gall-l)ladder, and to the vermiform appendix. The respiratory portion begins in the nostrils, and passes through the entire pharynx, the larynx, trachea, bronchi, and bronchial tubes, ending in the air-vesicles of the lungs. From the nasal cavities it gives prolongations to the inner surfaces of the eyelids and the front of the eyeballs, and to the chambers in the frontal, ethmoid, sphenoid, and upper-jaw bones; and from the pharynx it runs through tubes to the drums of the eai's and the cavities of the mastoid portion of the temporal bones. The r/enito-uri-nary mucous inemhrane lines the genital and urinary tracts, as its name implies. The portion which forms a part of the male reproductive organs (Fig. 77) leaves its junction with the skin at the distal open- FiG. 77.—Diagram of male genito-urinary mucous membrane, showing continuity of all its parts. (F. H. G.) ing of the penis, and is traced through the urethra to within an inch of its proximal end, where it enters the male womb and switches off on each side into the ejacu- latory duct, from which it sends one prolongation to the seminal vesicle and a second to the vas deferens, and through this last runs to the epididymis and the ducts of the testicle. In the female the genital tract (Fig. 78) begins at the vulva, goes through the vagina, the uterus, and the two Fallopian tubes, at the free extremities of which it is continuous with the serous membrane lining the abdominal cavity. In both sexes the urinary fimcous membrane lines the urethra, bladder, and ureters, ending at the papillae of the kidney. The variations in the character of the mucous membrane in diflFerent parts are very great, and changes are extremely abrupt at several points, while in other cases the modifications are effected very gradually. The corium (Fig. 79) is gen- erally much thicker than in serous and synovial membranes. It contains a com- paratively small proportion of yellow fibrous tissue. When it is largely occupied by follicular glands, the ordinary fibrous tissue is to a considerable extent replaced by adenoid-reticular, in whose meshes are entangled lymphoid cells, thus consti-