THE CEREBRUM. 525 The Lenticular Nucleus. ANTERIOR PILLARS OF FORNIX CLAUS- TRUM POSTERIOR PILLAR OF FORNIX In order to obtain an adequate view of the lenticular (" lens-like ") nucleus, it is necessary to make horizontal and vertical sections through that part of the substance of the hemisphere in which it is located. By such means we learn that this gray mass lies at the outer side of the caudate nucleus, but is for the most part separated from it by a thick j^late of white nervous tissue, the internal capsule. Its shape is that of an irregular, three-sided pyramid (Figs. 577, 578). It is divided into three unequal portions by two layers of white matter, the internal and external medullary lamince. The outer portion is the larg- est, is of a deep, red hue, is streaked at its inner part with nearly horizontal, white lines, and is called the putamen ("husk"). The other por- tions are yellowish-gray, and together constitute the globus jjallidus (" the pale sphere"). The lenticular nucleus is not entirely embedded in the brain substance : a portion of it is at the surfoce of the base of the cerebrum, at the outer side of the chiasma and behind the roots of the olfactory lobe, in the anterior perforated space. The internal capsule does not wholly separate the lenticular and caudate nuclei, the two 1 • -J. 1 1 1 1 Fig. 577.—Horizontal section (>11'lt l.iinisphere through the basal masses being unitea below ana gangUa, viewed from above, ex.. caudate nucleus. (Testut.) in front of it, and being further connected by thin cords of gray matter, which cross the capsule. The claustrum is fused with tlie lenticular nucleus at the anterior perforated space ; the amygdala is united with its hind and lower part; and through the amygdala the nucleus is continuous witli the cortex of the hemisphere. From these facts concerning the association of the gray masses of the hemisphere, we see that there is good reason for regarding them as thickenings of the peripheral gray . substance. The Anterior Perforated Space is situated at tlie base of the brain at the point from which the Sylvian fissure starts. The optic tract lies obliquely behind it, mesially it is continuous with the lamina cinerea, in front is the orbital surface of the frontal lobe. It is marked by numerous holes, through which pass blood- vessels to the lenticular nucleus. Fie. 562 shows it on each side of the cliiasm. The Claustrum (Fig. 577). Just outside of the lenticular nucleus is a thick stratum of white tissue, called the external capsule, which will be described later. Between this external cap- sule and the white substance which furnishes the backing of the gray of the in.sula is a thin lamina of gray tissue, called the claustrum (" barrier"). Its sur- faces are directed respectively toward the insula and the lenticular nucleus. In