379 THE ARTERIES. By a. D. BEVAN. THE arteries are the vessels which carry the blood from the right and left ventricles of the heart to all parts of the body. There are two sets of arte- ries, the pulmonary (" lung "), and the systemic. Each system begins as a single tube, continues as a single tul^e for a short distance, and then divides into branches. Each system resembles a tree with its trunk and branches. In studying each system the student should regard it as a whole, remem- bering that many of the divisions made are artificial, and that the whole system forms one continuous series of tubes. In the study of the arteries the student should follow some systematic plan, which will so fix in his memory a picture of the origin, and course, and relations of the arteries to surrounding structures, that this knowledge can be of service to him in his practical work. The pulmonary system is simple and easily mastered; the systemic requires much study. In studying the systemic system the student should make a sylla- bus of the entire system ; then, beginning with the aorta, he should study each anatomical division separately, and should learn of each vessel the following facts : Its origin, course, termination, relations, branches, distribution, anasto- moses, variations, and surgical anatomy. In studying the vessels the drawing of longitudinal sketches and of sketches of ti'ansverse sections of the limbs and trunk at different levels, showing the position of the vessels and the relation of the vessels to surrounding structures, will be found to be of great value. The vessels are best studied in the dissecting-room, but another valuable method of studying them is upon a living model. The external landmarks which guide the operator in the finding of, or in the avoiding of, a vessel in an operation are best fixed in the mind by the study of the living model. We shall follow therefore in this description of the systemic arteries the course outlined : I. A syllabus of the entire system. II. A detailed description of each vessel, giving its origin, course, termina- tion, branches, distribution, relations, anastomoses, variations, and surgical anatomy. We shall combine the study of the longitudinal course of the arteries with that of the vessels in transverse section, and shall study also the surgical anatomy involved in the ligation of the arteries. Before taking up the study of the systemic arteries, let us disjjose of the pulmonary system, which can be briefly done. THE PULMONARY ARTERIAL SYSTEM. The Pulmonary Artery (Fig. 439) carries the venous blood from the right ventricle to the lungs. Its orir/in is from the right ventricle; its course is upward, backward, and to the left for the distance of two inches, the vessel being contained in the pericardial cavity. Its termination is at a point beneath the transverse portion of the aorta o])posite the fifth dorsal vertebra. Here it die ides into the right and left pulmonary. Its relations are as follows :