583 THE FIFTH OR TRIFACIAL NERVE. raii~cle and between it and the mandihle, -applying that mu~cle and the anterior belly of the digastric. (e) The Lingual (wrongly called the gustatory) Nerve (Figs. 643, 644) lies at first under cover of the external pterygoid muscle, in front of and a little deeper than the inferior dental nerve, to which it is connected by a short branch. Here, also, it is joined at an acute angle by the chorda tympani nerve from the fiK'ial. It runs downward and forward on the internal pterygoid muscle and mandibular attachment of the superior constrictor of the pharynx, and reaches the inner side of the lower jaw, close under the last molar tooth, where it lies immediately under the mucous membrane, and may be readily reached by the surgeon, or injured in careless dentistry. It then lies between the hyoglossus and mylohyoid muscles above the deep portion of the submaxillary gland, and crosses AVharton's duct obliquely as it bencls upward toward the tip of the tongue. Fig. 643.—Mandibular division of trifacial nerve, seen from the middle line. The small figure is an enlarged view of the otic ganglion. (Testut.) Its communicating/ branches are those above mentioned—namely, to the inferior dental, and by the chorda tympani to the facial nerve, in addition to which there are the motor and sensory roots to the submaxillary ganglion, and one or two fila- ments which, under the mylohyoid mtiscle, join it with the hypoglossal nerve. It distributes twigs to the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth between the tongue and the gums, a branch to the sublingual gland (from the chorda tympani nerve), and ends by breaking tip into fibres for the anterior two-thirds of the tongue, supplying chiefly the fungiform and filiform papilke. The Submandibular (Submaxillary) Ganglion (Fig. 643).—In a small triangular space under cover of the mylohvoid muscle, having the lingual nerve above, AVhar- ton's duct below, and the submaxillary gland behind, lies a reddish body about the size of a pin-head, the suhmandibidar {submaxillary) ganglion. Its roots are repre- sented by one branch (or several) running downward and forward to it from the