316 THE MUSCLES. femur. Diredion, downward and inward. Insertion, the oalcaneiim at the inner side of the tendo AchilHs. Action, extension of foot and flexion of leg. Ncn-e, the internal pojiliteal. Peroneus Longus (Figs. 371, 372, 374, 378).—"The long fibular musele." Situaflnii, in the outer side of the leg and the sole of the foot. Origin, the outer tuberosity of the tibia, the head and upjier two-thirds of the outer surfaee of the libula. Direction, downward to the back of the outer malleolus, forward on the outer side of the calcaneum, through the groove of the cuboid, inward and forward across the sole. Insertion, the base of the first metatarsal and the inter- nal cuneiform. Action, extension of the foot, elevation of its outer edge, and abduction of its front end. Nerve, the musculo-cutaneous of the external popliteal. Peroneus Brevis (Figs. 371,373, 365, 378).—"The short fibular muscle." Situation, in the outer side of the leg and foot. Origin, the lower two-thirds of the outer surface of the fibula. Direction, downward to behind the external malleolus, then forward and a little downward. Insertion, the outer side of the tuberosity of the fifth metatarsal. Action, extension of the foot, elevation of its outer edge, and abduction of its front end. Nerve, the musculo-cutaneous of the external popliteal. MUSCLES MOVING THE DIGITS OF THE FOOT. (Those situated entirely in the foot are indicated by a star.) Flexors. Flexor longus hallucis. * Flexor brevis hallucis. Flexor longus digitorura. *Flexor accessorius. *Flexor brevis digitorum. *Flexor brevis minimi digiti. *Lumbricales. Abducto7's. *Abductor hallucis. *Abductor minimi digiti. *Interossei dorsales. Extensors. Extensor proprius hallucis. Extensor longus digitorum. *Extensor brevis digitorum. Adducfo7\s. *Adductor obliquus hallucis. *Adductor transversus hallucis. *Interossei plantares. In studying the muscles moving the digits of the foot it is unnecessary to place in a group by themselves those which act upon the great toe, as was done in the case of those of the thumb, for the reason that the first metatarsal bone is as fixed as its four fellows, and does not permit the degree and kind of movement which are so marked a feature of digital action in the hand. All but four of the twenty-four members of this group are situated entirely in the foot. Flexor Longus Hallucis (Figs. 374, 375, 378).—" The long flexor of the great toe." Synonym, flexor longus pollicis pedis, " the long flexor of the thumb of the foot." Situation, deep in the back of the leg on the outer side and in the sole. Origin, the lower two-thirds of the hind surface of the fibula, and a little of the interosseous membrane below. Direction, downward and inward, behind the inner malleolus, beneath the sustentaculum tali, then forward and inward in the sole. Insertion, the under surface of the base of the last phalanx of the first digit. Action, flexion of the last phalanx of the great toe. Nerve, the posterior tibial.