THE SACRAL VERTEBRA. 121 The apex of the sacrum, directed downward and a little forward, is formed by the transversely oval inferior surface of the body of the fifth sacral vertebra. This articulates with the coccyx by means of an intervertebral disc which in advanced life often ossifies. The ventral surface looks downward as well as forward. It is concave verti- cally, less so transversely. In the female it is broader, less curved vertically, Fig. 141.—The sacrum, ventral view. (Testut.) and the apex is directed more obliquely backward. The five bodies form the middle of this surface. The upper two are large, the lower three smaller. They are separated by four transverse ridges, the ossified intervertebral discs, which are bounded laterally by the four ])airs of ventral .sacral foramina, the ventral openings of the intervertebral foramina. The ventral foramina transmit the ventral divisions of the first fi)ur pairs of sacral nerves, and lead externally into grooves in the lateral masses, which in front consist of fused costal 2>i'ocesses. The dorsal surface is convex, I'ough, and narrower. It presents in the median line the spinous processes of the three or four upper vertebi'je, united into one or two ridges by ossification of the connecting ligaments. The fifth spine ahvays, the fourth usually, and all rarely, are wanting. On either side is the sacral groove, continuous with the vertebral groove above, and formed by the ankylosed laminae. The laminse of the fifth vertebra always, and those of the fourth often, are incomplete, leaving a triangular gap in the lower dorsal wall of the spinal ■canal. The lower margins of this gap are pnjlonged down as two tubercles, the sacy(//"corni(a (" horns "), which represent the inferior articular processes of the fifth sacral vertebra, and are connected by ligaments with the coccygeal cornua. On each side of the sacral groove is a series of small prominences, the artic- ular and mammillary processes, se])arated frt)m a more external series of lai'ger eminences, the transverse processes, by the four dorsal sacral foramina. The latter are opposite to, but smaller than the ventral sacral foramina. The four sacral intervertebral grooves on each side pass outward as canals as far as the lateral mass, where they bifurcate and pass forward and backward to the ventral and dorsal foramina. That part of the bone external to the foramina represents the lateral mass, whose lateral surfaces arc broad and thick above, narrow below. The ujiper broad .part of each lateral surface presents in front an uneven articular surface, calledj'the auricvlar surface, from its ear-like shai)e, which articulates with the ilium, and behind a rough surface for the attachment of the posterior sacro-iliac