729^ THE LARGE INTESTINE. segments : the asccndiug colon, the transverse coh)n, the descencling colon, and the sigmoid colon. Its serous membrane is marked at irregular intervals along the line of one of the muscular bands by little tassel-like protrusions, the appendices epiploiocB ("omental a])pendages"), containing adipose tissue. They do not appear until after childhood, and are pronounced in proportion to the fatness of the individual. The Ascending Colon. The ascending colon (Fig. 780) begins at the level of the ileo-c£ecal valve, passes upward and backward, and ends at the under surface of the right lobe of the liver, where it is received in the colic impression. It has no inherent peculiarities to distinguish it from other segments except in its serous tunic. The disposition of this coat determines the mobility or fixity of the part. Gen- erally only the front and sides are clad in peritoneum, which is reflected laterally to the abdominal wall ; but not very infrequently a distinct mesentery, here called nscending mcmcolon, is found. In the former case this i)art is immovable ; in the latter its mobility is regulated by the length of its mesentery. The Transverse Colon. The transverse colon (Fig. 786) begins at the hepatiG jlexuve, which is the angle made between it and the preceding portion, and passes almost horizontally to a nearly corresponding point on the left side, where it terminates in a bend, the splenic flexure, between it and the descending colon. In cross- ing the trunk, however, it does not go in a straight line, but, keeping close to the anterior wall, describes a curve with its concavity backward, and displays thrice the length that it would, if it ran directly from side to side. It often sags a little in the middle. This part of the colon is ])rovided ^vith a mesentery, the transverse mesocolon, which varies greatly in length in difterent subjects. Its proximal border is fastened to the hind wall of the abdomen, its distal is attached to the gut along the line of the postero-inferior muscular band. The antero-inferior band is decorated with appen- dices epiplo'icix", and the superior is the base Fig. 786.—Ascending and transverse from which dcijcud the liiud layers of the great colons, viewed from the right side. (Drawn . j a from the His cast. F. H. G.) omentum. The Descending Colon. The descending colon is almost the exact counterpart of the ascending ; but it is a little smaller in bore, a trifle longer—the great thickness of the liver pre- venting the ascending colon from reaching quite as high a plane as that from which the descending starts—and somewhat farther back in its upper portion. It ends at the level of the crest of the ilium—an arbitrary and conventional limit, there being no inherent, natural mark of separation between it and the next division. Finally, it is hardly ever furnished with a mesentery, and its hind surface is generally bare of serous membrane.