THE FASCIAE OF THE FERINEU2I. 361 called the jyyriformis fascia. As the obturator uiternus leaves the pelvis it takes with it a reflection of its fascia, which thus becomes continuous with the fascia which invests the muscles in the hip and thigh. The Recto-vesical Fascia. Along the curved line which marks the upper border of the origin of the levator ani (i. e., from the symjihysis pubis to the ischial spine) the fascia is somewhat thickened, and is called the ichite line (arcus tendineus, linea albuginea). From this line the recto-vesical fascia arises, and extends toward the median line in close contact with the upper surface of the levator ani. When it reaches the bladder, it splits into two layers, one of which spreads upward and disappears in the wall of this viscus, and the other j^asses downward upon the prostate gland, and thus forms its sheath. The portion around the prostate is continuous with the upper layer of the triangular ligament, which will presently be described. When the recto-vesical feseia reaches the rectum, its fibres intermingle with those of this intestine. In tli j female the fascia forms a partial covering to the vagina. Certain portions of the recto-vesical fascia are described as the true ligaments of the bladder; but the lateral and the posterior are generally so indistinct as to be demonstrable with difficulty, if at all, and only the anterior are constantly worthy of mention. A little to each side of the median line a fold of the fascia runs forward from the bladder, and attaches itself to the body of the pubic bone. This fold encloses a small bundle of muscular tissue, which is called, from the parts which it con- nects, the vcsico-pubic muscle. Thus are formed the anterior lir/nments of the bladder. Between these two ridges is a median depression, in which the fascia is thin. THE FASCIuE OF THE PERINEUM. The deeji fascia of the perineum forms a triangle with its apex forward. It extends nearly horizontally sidewise between the lateral walls of the pelvis, and ventfo-dorsally from the pubic symphysis to the central point of the perineum, which is about an inch in front of the anus. At the base of the triangle the fascia is single, but immediately splits into two layers, the superficial and the deep, between which are situated the constrictor muscle of the urethra, Cowper's (sub- urethral) glands, vessels and nerves, as well as a part of the urethra. From this last fact and its shape the fascia is most commonly known as the triangular liga- ment of the urethra. The superficial (inferior) layer stretches between the ischio-pubic rami, strengthened near the front by a fibrous band, called the transverse ligament of the pelvis. The deep (superior) layer is fastened laterally to the obturator fascia, just above the latter's attachment to the pubic and ischial rami. In the female the vagina perforates this fascia. The superficicd fascia requires more attention in the perineum than in most other localities. Its deep layer is rather firm and close, and is attached at the sides to the entire lower border of the ischio-pubic rami and the ischial tuberosi- ties. Its hind margin is united to that of the triangular ligament, between which structure and it are the transversus perinei muscles. Between this deep layer and the skin is the superficial layer, loose and areolar, its spaces occupied with fat- cells. The name ischio-rectcd fossa is applied to the considerable space on each side between the sagging floor of the pelvis and the osseo-muscular pelvic Avail. These fossfe are commonly filled with adipose tissue, which is continuous with that subjacent to the skin of the buttocks.