ELE3IENTABY TISSUES. 48 agency being removed, the white fasciculi back into th strained yellow fibres assert their elasticity, pull the eir undulations, and assist a little in the restoration of the parts between which it lies to their former attitude of rejiose. The tissue is connective in a typical sense. Disease and accident afford strik- ing illustrations of the freedom of intercommunication of the areolae. Fig. 31.—Areolar tissue, composed tissue and branched strands of yellow twined. of bundles of white fibrous fibrous tissue loosely inter- FiG. 32.—A portion of areolar tissue in- flated and dried, showing areolee. and also of the vast extent of this structure just beneath the skin—here called the subcutaneous areolar tissue. The lymph-like fluid mentioned above is sometimes formed more rapidly than is normal, or, what amounts to the same thing in effect, its absorption is less rapid than its formation, and the excess accumulates in the areolte. But, as each of these spaces opens into all of its neighbors, the fluid gravitates from one to another into those which are most dependent, and these it distends projiortionately to its amount. In such a case, when the feet have been upon the floor all day, by evening they are swollen ; but, after the patient has passed a night in bed in the horizontal position, the enlargement disapi)ears almost entirely, because the fluid has gravitated back again and has be- come widely diftused. Sometimes, as in fracture of a rib, a sharj) fragment of bone pei'forates the chest-wall and slightly punctures the lung, leaving an o]ien tract between some of the air-vesicles of the latter organ and the areolar tissue near the surface of the body. Every time that air is drawn into the lung, some of it escapes through the acci- dental opening into the subcutaneous areolar tissue, the spaces of which become inflated, at fii'st only in the region of the injury, but at each breath more and more extensively, until finally all of the areolte under the skin are so ballooned that the victim presents such an a])pearance as is shown in Fig. 33. The areolar tissue around certain organs, as vessels, becomes somewhat con- densed and forms a distinct sheath. The nourishing vessels of a part are situated in its areolar tissue. In the narrow spaces between the lobules of a solid organ, as the liver; forming a layer outside of the mucous coat of hollow organs, as the Fig. 33.—Inflation of subcutaneous areolar tissue, due to introduction of air through a wound in the chest-wall and lung. (Gross.)