675 THE EAR. throughout with mucous membrane, which covers every object contained in the cavity. The outer wall is composed ahnost entirely of a broad, fibrous sheet, the mmi- hrana tympdni ("membrane of the drum"), and the rim of bone to which it is attached. The membraiia tympani has as its basis a firm layer of white fibrous tissue. On its inner side is a lining of mucosa, and on its outer a coat of skin. The membrane is moderately tight everywhere except at the very top, where there is a small area, which is comparatively fiaccid. The membrane is not flat, but its centre presents a prominence upon the mesial side. It slopes markedly from above downward and inward. The inner wall of the tympanum has a very uneven surface. The most marked prominence is the tuber cochlece, produced by the protrusion of the first turn of the cochlea. Below this is a round hole, the fenestra rotunda, closed by a fibrous membrane, but for which communication would be established between the tympanum and the scala tympani. The membi'ane is called the secovrlary membrane of the tympanum—the second head to the drum. At a little higher level than the tuber is the fenestra ovalis, also stopped with a fibrous membrane, to which is attached an ossicle, presently to be described. Aliove this oval win- dow is a ridge, which shows the situation of the aqueduct of Fallopius, in which is the facial nerve. At the rear and upper part the tympanum communicates through a large hole with a series of irregular and connected cavities in the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, the most considerable and the nearest of these being the mastoid AQUEDUCT OF FALLOPIUS Fig. 726.—Coronal section of the riKlit temporal bone, passing through the Eustachian tube and the mid- dle of the tympanum. Both surfaces of the section are shown, the parts being hinged on the line xx. (Testut.) antrmn, the others being the mastoid, cells. Tliese cavities are all lined with mucous membrane, continued into them from the tympanum. Lower down on the hind surface is a prominence of bone, called from its shajie the pi/ironid, from the apex of which projects the tendon of the stapedius muscle. Iih front and below, the tympiinum slojjes into a long channel, the Eustachian tube, the distal end of which opens into tlie pharynx. Through this tube air is admitted to and expelled from the middle ear, and thus atmospheric pressure oni the inner and outer sides of the membrana tympani is equalized. The tube does