MUSCLES OF THE FRONT AND SIDE OF THE NECK. 337 MUSCLES OF THE FRONT AND SIDE OF THE NECK. Superficial. Sterno-cleido-raastoideus. Infrahyoid. Sterno-thyroideus. Thyro-hyoideus. Suprahyoid. Mylo-hyoideus. Genio-hyoideus. Deep Lateral. Scalenus posterior. Rectus cajjitis lateralis. Prevertebral. Rectus capitis anterior major. Rectus capitis anterior minor. Longus colli. Platysma (Fig. 401).—"The broad sheet muscle." Synonym, platysma myoides, " the muscle-like sheet." Situation, in the front and side of the neck, and the lower part of the side of the face. Origin, the skin and areolar tissue covering the upper part of the pectoralis major, deltoideus, and trapezius, and, sometimes, the scapula and clavicle. Direction, upward and inward. Insertion, the outer surface of the mandible as far back as the masseter, and the muscular structures about the angle of the mouth and lower lip. Some fibres cross to the opposite side. Action : it draws the angle of the mouth and the lower lip down- and outward, and contracts the skin of the neck. Nerve, the facial. Sterno-cleido-mastoideus (Fig. 402).—"The sternum-clavicle-mastoid-process muscle." Synonym, sterno-mastoideus. Situation, in the side of the neck. Origin, the front of the manubrium and inner third of the clavicle. Direction, upward and backward. Insertion, the mastoid process of the temporal, and the outer half of the superior curved line of the occipital. An interval exists between the sternal and clavicular origins. The muscle divides the lateral area of the neck into two triangles. Action : it draws the head toward the shoulder, and rotates the face toward the opposite side. When the two muscles act, the head is extended. Stemo-hyoideus (Fig. 403).—"The sternum-hyoid-bone muscle." Situation, in the front of the neck. Origin, the back of the manubrium, and inner end of the clavicle. Direction, ii])ward. Insertion, the body o{ the hyoid. Action, depres- sion of the hyoid. Nerve, the hypoglossal. Omo-liyoideus (Figs. 402, 40.3).—" The shoulder-hyoid-l)one muscle." Situa- tion, the upper part of the shoulder and the front of the neck. Origin, the scapula, near the suprascapular notch. Direction, forward and inward to behind the sterno-cleido-mastoid, and then upward and a little inward. Insertion, the body of the hyoid. This is a slender, double-bellied muscle. The middle ten- don is held down by a loop of deep fascia, which is attached below to the sternum and cartilage of the first rib. Action, depression of the hyoid. Nerve, the hypoglossal. Sterno-thyroideus (Fig. 403).—" The sternum-thyroid-cartilage muscle." Situation, the front of the neck, behind the sterno-hyoid. Origin, the back of the manubrium, and cartilage of the first rib. Direction, upward. Insertion, the oblique line on the ala of the thyroid cartilage. Action, depression of thyroid cartilage. Nerve, the hypoglossal. 22 Platysma. Sterno-hyoideus. Omo-hyoideus. Digastricus. Stylo-hyoideus. Scalenus anterior. Scalenus medius.