563 THE NERVES. By W. KEILLER. IN this chapter will be described, first, the nerves which connect the brain and spinal cord with the skin, muscles, and viscera, and the nuclei in which these nerves take origin ; and, second, the sympathetic system. The mode in which the nerves end in skin, muscles, and other organs is dealt with in the chapter on histology, or in the sections of the work describing the organs themselves. THE CEREBRO-SPINAL NERVES. The cerebrospinal nerves are those which spring directly from the brain or spinal cord. Those which pass to their destination through foramina in the base of the skull are called cranial nerves. The rest are called spinal nerves, as they spring from the sides of the spinal cord and emerge through the intervertebral foramina, excepting the last spinal or coccygeal nerve, which passes through the lower extremity of the neural canal. The first spinal nerve, however, is somewhat exceptional, arising from the oblongata, and emerging from the neural canal between the occipital bone and the atlas. All these nerves are paired and symmetricallv distributed, the apparent asymmetry of the vagus being due to developmental changes. As the nerves leave the brain or cord and pierce the membranes, they receive investments from the pia, arachnoid, and dura, which blend with the epi- and perineurium ; but fluid, injected forcibly into the sub- ai'achnoid or subdural space, will find its way readily along the nerves for some distance. In the case of the optic nerve each sheath remains distinct as far as the eyeball. Typical Constitution of a Cerebro-spinal Nerve.—All spinal nerves and most cranial nerves arc mixed ; that is, are both motor and sensory in function, the function of each fibre depending on its mode of origin and termination ; and, since cranial nerves, though sometimes obscurely, follow the same plan of forma- tion as spinal nerves, we shall take the latter as the type for study. The diagrammatic representation of a spinal nerve in Fig. 626 shows that it arises by two roots from the spinal cord. The dorsal root is sensory, has a gan- glion on it, and springs by one compact bundle from the dorsal horn of gray matter and dorso-lateral aspect of the cord. The ventral root is motor, has no ganglion, and springs by several bundles from the ventral horn of gray matter and the ventral aspect of the cord. The points by which these several bundles leave the cord form collectively the sujjerjicial origin of the nerve. Each fibre of the motor root is the axis-cylinder process of one of the nerve-cells of the ventral horn of gray matter, the finer branching processes of this cell connecting it with higher centres. AYhile the nerve-cell lives, the fibre lives ; when the cell dies the fibre dies. These cells of the ventral horn form collectively the deep or nuclear origin of the motor root, which their axis-cylinder processes unite to form. The ganglion on the dorsal root contains the cells whose axis-cylinder pro- cesses form the sensory segment of the nerve. Though separated from the spinal