787 THE URETHRA. lascia is an im])ortant means of fixation. Around the lower levels of the bladder this faseia is closely united to the muscular tunic, and is sometimes spoken of as a covering of the bladder, thinning out rapidly as it stretches upward. Several parts of this fascia are conventionally described as true Ik/aments of the bladder— two anterior, two lateral, two posterior—but they are usually indistinct, and it is not ini])()rtaut to mention more than the two anterior or pubo-prostatic, which connect the lower part of the pubic Ijody with tlie front of the prostate gland and the adjacent portion of the bladder. Just I)eneatli each of these is a prolongation of the front and lower part of the longitudinal muscular layer, called the rcsico- pubic muscle, connecting bladder and pubis. The urachus and the obliterated hypogastric arteries extend from the junction of the upjjer and anterior surfaces to the umbilicus. Folds of peritoneum aid in mooring the bladder, two posterior being reflected to it from the sides of the rectum, the hollow betw^een them being called the reefo-vesical pondi ; two lateral from the iliac fosste ; and one superior, folded over the urachus. These serous reduplications are called J'uhe lif/cniienfs. The continuity of the vesical, prostatic, and ureteral mucous meml)ranes, the strong areolar and adipose connections of the bladder with all of the immediately neighboring organs, and the blood-ves- sels—all these are factors in the fix- ation of the bladder. Relations of the Bladder.—The pre- vious description has involved inci- dentally so much mention of the relations of the bladder that but little more need be said of them. Its poste- rior surface, which is the widest, rests in the male upon the rectum (Fig. 856). The serous covering of the superior surface extends for a variable distance upon the posterior, and thence is re- flected to the rectum. The line of its lowest attachment to the bladder forms the base of a triangle, Avhose sides are made by the vasa deferentia. The area thus bounded is accessible to surgical operation through the rectum ; but it is unsafe to count upon more than an inch of non-serous surface in the median line between the hind limit of the jirostate gland and the fold of peritoneum, though there may be double this amount. In the female the bladder has behind it the vagina and uterus. When the bladder is distended, the anterior (pubic) surface is so enlarged that it partly rises out of the jielvis, and at the same time the peritoneum is lifted away from the lower part of the abdominal wall, and stretched over the extended area of the superior surface. This leaves a space of two inches or more just above the pubic crest in which an incision can be made w'ithout injuring the peritonemii. The arteries of the bladder are the superior and inferior vesical, and, in the female, the uterine also ; its veins are radicles of the internal iliac ; its Ij/inphafies are tril;)utary to the internal iliac nodes ; and its nerre-supplii is from the third and fourth sacral, and the hypogastric jilexus of the sympathetic. PROS Fig. 856.—Base of tlir Mailder. showing the vasa deferentia and seminal vesk-les. Tlie peritoneum is raised by hooks. (Testut.) The Urethra. The urethra is the tube by which the urine is conducted from the bladder. Its name, like "ureter," is derived from the Greek word which means "to urinate." The male and female urelhne differ so materially that a separate description of each is necessary.