409 THE ARTERIES. of the encephalou. A point of practical importance in this connection is the fact that the arteries which supply the brain ai'e terminal arteries, and that there is no anastomosis between the vessels supplying the ganglia and central structures of the brain and the vessels sujjplying the cortex. As a result, whenever an injury or lesion to an artery of the brain occurs, the portion of the l)rain tissue supplied by the vessel beyond the point of the lesion has its arterial supply permanently cut off, and ne- crosis and softening- follow. AnUrinr Communicating Anterior Cerebral Middle Cerebral Internal Carotid Posterior Communicating Posterior Cerebral Superior Cerebellar Anterior Inferior Cerebellar Basilar Posterior Inferior Cerebellar Vertebral Posterior Spinal Anterior Spinal Fig. 455.—Key to Fig. 454. The Internal Mammary Artery (Fig. 4oG). This vessel is given off from the ante- rior surface of the first portion of the sub- clavian. It passes downward to the inner surface of the cartilage of the first rib, runs downward between the costal cartilages and the pleura, about half an inch external to the border of the sternum, to the sixth intercostal space, and there divides into the superior epigastric and musculo-phrenic arteries. In its course it gives off the su- perior phrenic, the mediastinal, the ante- rior intercostal, and the anterior perforat- ing. The superior phrenic accompanies the phrenic nerve in its distribution. The mediastinal branches are distributed to the structures of the anterior mediastinum. The anterior intercostals are given off at each of the upper five or six intercostal spaces and supply the anterior portion of those spaces,, anastomosing with the aortic intercostal arteries. The perforating l)ranches pierce the intercostal muscle in each space, and pass forward and outward to supply the pectoral muscle, the mam- mary gland, and the integument over the pectoral region. The terminal branches are the musculo-phrenic and superior epigastric. The musculo-phrenic winds outward and downward along the inner Fig. 456.—Internal mammary and deep epigas- tric arteries. (Tcstut.)