591 NIXTIl OR GLOSSOPHARYXGEAL yERVE. matter, to emerge from it at the junction ot'tlie two liorn.-; ; thence outward tliroiigh tlie crossed pyramidal tract and direct cerebellar tract to their suix-rficial origin, between the ligamentum denticulatum and dorsal nerve roots. It extends as low as the sixth or seventh cervical nerve. The Ninth or Glossopharyngeal Nerve. The glossofihari/ngeal ("tongue-pharynx") nerve (Fig. 647) is formed by the union of the upper five or six bundles of nerve-fibres, which arise from the side of the oblongata between the olivary and restiform bodies. It passes outward in front of the flocculus to the jugular foramen, by the middle compartment of which it leaves the cranium antero-internally to the vagus and spinal accessory, and in a special sheath of dura. In this foramen it lies in a groove or canal on the ])osterior border of the petrous boue, and here it possesses two successive gangliform enlargements, the jugular gangliou and petrous ganglion, respi-'ctively. It then passes for a short distance downward between the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein, lying at first close to the vagus. It soon winds forward, tuider the styloid process and its muscles and superficial to the internal carotid artery, till, reachiug the lower border of the stylopharyngeus muscle, it runs forward on it to the back of the tongue, where, under cover of the hyoglossus, it breaks up into its terminal branches. The jugular ganglion is situated at the upper margin of the jugular foramen. It is very small, not constant, only involves the posterior filjres of the nerve, and gives oif no branches. It is regarded as a displaced portion of the lower ganglion, and together they are taken to represent the ganglion on the sensory root of a spinal nerve. The petrous ganglion lies in a groove on the petrous bone at the lower margin of the jugular foramen. It is not more than one-fourth of an inch long, and involves the whole nerve. It gives off the tympanic nerve, and twigs which communicate with the ])neumogastric and sympathetic. Bra>'CHES.—(ri) Meningeal branches are distributed to tlie pia and arachnoid meml)ranes within the cranium. (6) Tlie tympanic branch (nerve of Jacobson) is a minute l>ut important nerve, which is given off from the petrous ganglion. It enters the tympanum through a small foramen situated on the ridge between the carotid canal and jugular fossa, and on the promontory divides into several branches, which form the f;/mpanic plexus. Of these the principal branch pierces the roof of the tympanum to join the snudl petrosal nerve, of which it probably forms the main constituent. By this means glossopharyngeal fibres pass to the otic ganglion and so to the par<jtid gland. Another filament joins the great superficial petrosal nerve; and a twig called the small deep petrosal nerve joins the carotid plexus of tlie sympathetic. In addition to these, filaments are distributed to the lining mem- brane of the mastoid cells, the fenestra oralis, fenestra, rotunda, and Eustachian tube. (c) Three communicating branches arise from the petrous ganglion, namelv, filaments to the upper cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, the auricular branch of the vagus, and to the root-ganglion of that nerve. Immediately below the petrous ganglion a twig is given off to the lingual Ijranch of the facial nerve. (<-/) A muscular branch is .~n])plied lo the styIo])haryngeus, which also sends filaments to the mucous membraue of the pharynx. (e) Pharyngeal branches, two or three in number, spring from the nerve just below the petrous ganglion. The main branch passes downward over the internal carotid artery, and joins the ]iharvngeal branch of the vagus to form the ]>haryngeal plexus with the assistance of l)ranches from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympath"tic. (_/") The tonsillar branches are two or three nerves which ascend under the hyoglossus to f )rm a plexus on the tonsil called the circulus tonsillaris, from which twigs proceed to the soft palate and isthmus faucium.