THE BLOOD-VASTULAB SYSTEM. 436 Surgical Anatomy.—The position of the piidic artery and its branches must be carefully studied with reference to the many operations performed on the perineum and on tlie external genitals. In the old lateral operation for stone the arters", or one of its large branches, may be wounded, and give rise to serious hemorrhage. In external urethrotomy and in median lithotomy the roof of the membranous urethra should be avoided, as immediately above it lies the large arterv of the bulb, a branch of the internal pndie. The artery can be ligated at two points of its course ; the Urst where it crosses the otiter surface of the spine of the ischium, and second along the ascending ramus of the os pubis. The Branclies of the internal pudic are small branches given off within the pelvis to the muscles with which it is in contact. In the perineum the branches are the inferior hemorrhoidal, superficial perineal, transverse perineal, artery of the liulb. artery of the coq)us cavernosum, and dorsal artery of the penis. The inferior hemorrlioidal crosses the ischio-rectal fossa to reach the lower end of the bowel, to which it is distributed, as well as to the contiguous integument. It anastomoses with the other hemorrhoidal arteries. The superficial perineal winds upward and inward beneath the superficial perineal fascia, and supplies the superficial muscles and integument of the peri- neum proper. The transverse perineal (often a branch of the superficial perineal) runs along the trausversus perinei to the median line to the bulb of the urethra. The artery of the "bvlb is a vessel of good size which is given off frnm the internal pudic between the layers of tlie triangtilar ligament. It passes upward and inward to the bulb, which it supplies. This vessel and its branches often give rise to troublesome or even serious hemorrhage in the operation of external urethrotomy or median lithotomy, in which the bulb is divided ; or the artery mav be wounded in operations for lateral lithotomy. The artery of the corpus cavemosum rims upward and inward between the lavers of the triangular ligament t<i the cor[)us cavernosuni, which it supplies, breaking up into the covtrnou~ spaces of that structure. The dorsal artery of the penis passes upward to the suspensory ligament of the penis, which it pierces, and runs along the fibrous sheath of the tipper surface of the penis to the glans, which it supplies. This vessel communicates with the artery of the corpus cavernosum. In ampittations of the penis these vessels must be ligated. The arteries of the corpus cavernosum are best controlled by sewing up the strong fibi'ous sheath of each corpus. The distribution of the internal \m(\\c in the female is practicallv the same as in the male, but the vessel is smaller. The arterv of the bulb supplies the bulbus vestiljuli. and tlie terminal branches send an arterv to the corpus cavernosum of the clitoris and a dorsal artery to the clitoris. The Sciatic Artery (Fig. 47-5) is one of the two terminal branches from the anterior trunk of the internal iliac. It leaves the pelvis through the great sacro- sciatic foramen below the pyriformis muscle, and passes down the back of the thitrh in close companv with the sciatic nerves to supply the l3Uttock and upper portion of the posterior asjieet of the thigh. "Variations.—The sciatic sometimes arises by a common trunk with the gluteal. Rarelv the sciatic is a vessel of great size, and is the main source of blood for the lower extremitv, practically taking the place of the femoral. Surgical Anatomy.—The sciatic may be ligated as it leaves the pelvis. An incision should be made in a line drawn from the posterior superior spine of the ilium to the tuberosity of the ischium, the fibres of the gluteus maximus separated, tlie pvriformis muscle exposed, and beneath its lower border the sciatic artei'v is found. The same incision exposes the internal pudic, as it winds over the surface of the spine of the ischium. Branches.—"Within the pelvis the arterv gives off small branches to the mus- cles with which it is in contact. After leaving the pelvis it gives off coccygeal, inferior gluteal, muscular and articular branches, and a branch which accompanies