THE MUSCLES. 288 Gemellus inferior. and the muscle, which is frequently absent, probably has no effect except in tight- ening the iliac fascia. No group of muscles, therefore, will be presented as acting upon the hip. Movements of the TMgh.—Tlie ball-and-socket joint at the hi]i permits move- ment of the tliigh in every direction. That forward is called ffc.rion, backward is extension, outward is (ibductio)i, inward is (ickJaction. Rotation and circumduc- tion are like the same movements in the upper extremity. Movements of the Leg.—At the knee the joint is a hinge, and the movements of the leg are forward, which is extension, and backward, which is flexion. Between the two long bones of the leg there is no movement comjjarable with the pronation and supination of the radius. Movements of the Foot.—At the ankle is another hinge with movement of the foot forward (upward), which is flexion, and backward (downward), which is extension. The lateral movements of the foot are chiefly at the astragalo-calcanean and the medio-tarsal articulations. Movements of the Digits.—The metatarso-phalangeal and iuterphalangeal articulations are almost identical with their homologues in the hand, the main ditference being that the first metatarsal is like all of its fellows in its practical immobility, and thus the hallux has nothing like the capacity of the poUex— there is no power of grasping in the sole as there is in the palm. Motion of the toes forward (upward) is extension, in the opposite direction is flexion. Thus, we see that the series of forward movements presents alternately flexion and extension —of the thigh flexion, of the leg extension, of the foot flexion, of the toes exten- sion ; and the backward movements are alternately, beginning with the thigh, extension and flexion. In the upper extremity the forward movements, it will be remembered, are all flexion. The movements of the toes sidewise ai'e abduc- tion and adduction with reference to a line running through the normal long axis of the second digit of the foot, and not the third, as it is in the hand. Classification of the Muscles of the Lower Limb on the Basis OF their Principal Action. Flexors. Psoas magnus. Iliacus. Moving the Thigh. Extensor. Gluteus maximus. Abductors. Tensor vaginae femoris. Gluteus medius. Gluteus minimus. Adductors. Adductor magnus. Adductor longus. Adductor brevis. Adductor gracilis. Pectineus. Internal Rotators. (The same as the abductors.) External Rotators. Obturator externus. Quadratus femoris. Pyriformis. Gemellus superior. Obturator internus.