THE CEBEBRO-SPINAL AXIS. 536 a double stalk on eacli side. OiK' of these is very short, and is connected witli tlie posterior commissure ; tlie other, already deseril)ed, extends from tlie epiphysis to the anterior pillar of the fornix, and indicates the upper, lateral boundary of the third ventricle. The walls of the third ventricle are so intimately l)lended at various points x/ith those of the lateral ventricles that it is impracticable to determine the exact line of union ; but a portion of it doubtless lies in the internal capsule. There is an luihrokcii contiiiaiti/ of gray matter from the lamina cinerea at the front of the third ventricle to the gray surrounding the central canal of the spinal cord. The lamina cinerea is connected in front not only with the callosum, l)ut also with the gyri of the frontal lobe, and at its sides it joins the anterior i)er- FiG. 591.—Diagram to show the continuity of the gray of the basal ganglia of the cerebral hemispheres, the cortex, and the lower segments of the cerebro-spinal axis. (F. H. G.) forated space, which is the surface area of the lenticular and caudate nuclei and the claustruin ; and these are connected with the gyri of tlie temporal lobe through the amygdala, which is fused with the lenticular nucleus. Keeping these facts in mind, it is easy to understand that the great ganglia are only local thickenings of the gray matter surrounding the cavity of the cerebro-spinal axis, which in the adult displays in the spinal cord the least change from the original condition. The Subthalamic Region.—The mass upon which the thalamus rests is made up mostly of a forward continuation of the tegmentum of the mesencephalon. Three layers are distingiiislied : the strafmn (Jormlc, which is superior; the zona incerta ("the uncertain zone"), a reticulated, fibrous collection, the origin of which is doubtful and its boundaries obscure; and the corpus ■mbthaJamiciim (" body under the thalamus "), derived from the locus niger, which lies between the tegmentum and crusta of the mesencephalon. Dorsal and mesial to the corpus subthalamicum is an extension of the red nucleus of the tegmentum. The sub- thalamic region thins out as it extends forward and outward, and finally becomes continuous with the anterior perforated space.