135 THE HUMERUS. To its dorsal aspect some fibres of the latissimus dorsi muscle are frequently attached. The external angle presents the liead, supported on a slightly constricted nech, and bearing the articular glenoid mvity for the humerus. The glenoid cavity i is shallow and pear-shaped, with the narrow end above, and indented on its ven- tral lip above its centre. It looks outward, upward, and forward. To its rim is attached the glenoid ligament, which deepens the shallow cavity, and outside of this the capsular ligament is attached. The long head of the biceps arises from I its upper extremity. From the upper border of the neck the thick, strong cora- I coid ("like a crow's beak") process rises nearly vertically for a short distance, i and then bends sharply forward and outward in front of, and more or less parallel with, the acromion. From the tip of the process arise the short head of the biceps, the coraco-brachialis, and the costo-coracoid ligament. To its inner border the pectoralis minor muscle is attached, and to its outer border the coraco-acromial ligament. Its superior surface is rough, and affords attachment, near the base, to the coraco-clavicular ligament (conoid and trapezoid portions). When the arm hangs by the side the scapula rests upon the ribs, from the second to the seventh inclusive, and the inner end of its spine corresponds to the i third thoracic spine' or the space below it. The distance between the spines of the vei'tebrse and the vertebral border averages two inches. The tip of the coracoid process is palpable below the clavicle and internal to the humeral head, except in 1 fat subjects. The dorsal border of the spine, the upper surface of the acromion, and the lower part of the vertebral border are also subcutaneous. ' Ossification occurs in cartilage from two primary and five secondary centres, from the former of which the body and coracoid process are formed. The coracoid joins the body about the fifteenth year, when two centres apjiear in the acromion, ; which soon unite together and join the spine about the twentieth year, though sometimes this union fails, and the acromion is movable on the spine. Two other centres appear in the cartilage along the vertebral border, and another between the glenoid cavity and the coracoid jjrocess. Morphology.—The coracoid process represents the coracoid bone, or ventral bar of the shoulder-girdle of other animals. Its ventral end has degenerated into the costo-coracoid ligament. The glenoid fossa is the meeting-point of the coracoid and the dorsal segment or scapula. The precoracoid bar of the shoulder- girdle is replaced by the clavicle in man. THE HUMERUS. The humerus (Figs. 159, 160) constitutes the skeleton of the arm, and extends downward and slightly inward from the shoulder to the elbow. It presents, like all long bones of the liml)s, an upper and a lower extremity and a shaft. ) The large upper extremity includes the head, neck, and two tuberosities. The large cartilage-clad head represents about one-third of a sphere, whose vertical diameter is slightly longer than the transverse. It is directed inward, upward, and backward, at an angle of 130° with the axis of the shaft, to articulate with the glenoid cavity of the scapula. The anatomical nech is the slight constriction below and external to the head, to which the capsular ligament is attached. Superiorly, it is a mere groove between the head and the tuberosities. The latter are separated from one another by the commencement of the bicipital groove. The great tuberosity, the higher and more dorsally placed, is continued up from the outer surface of the shaft nearly to the level of the head. Of the three facets on its upper and dorsal aspect, the upper attaches the supraspinatus, the middle the infraspinatus, and the lower the teres minor muscle. The prominent small tuberosity looks forward and attaches the subscapularis muscle. The surgical neck, so called from the frequency of fracture here, is where the shaft joins the upper extremity. The shaft, cylindrical above, transversely expanded and triangular below,' is ' And also to the fissure between the upper and lower lobes of the lung.