THE VEIXS. 467 The Ophthalmic Veins. Commencing near the inner cantlius of the e}'elid, where it communicates freely with the angular, frontal, and supra-orbital veins, the principal or Supe- rior Ophthalmic Vein extends backward and inward to the inner end of the sphe- noidal fissure, through which it passes to end in the fore part of the cavernous sinus. In the orbit it crosses above the optic nerve, a little in front of the artery, and receives branches similar to those of the artery. The Inferior OpJithribnic Vein.—Formed hy the union of some inferior mus- cular branches with the lower posterior ciliary branches, this smaller ophthalmic vein runs backward in the floor of the orbit, beneath the optic nerve. It ter- minates by joining the superior ophthalmic vein to form the short common ophthal- mic trunk, or by opening separately into the cavernous sinus. A branch, and occasionally the entire vein, descends through the spheno-maxillary fissure to join the pterygoid plexus. As the ophthalmic veins have no valves, the blood, under certain conditions, may flow from behind forward into the angular vein or its brandies, and thus obviate pressure in the veins of the retina, wlien the cavernous sinus is obstructed. The Emissary Veins. These pass through foramina in the skull to connect the cranial sinuses with the surface veins of the scalp. The blood-current may be in one or the other direction under varying conditions of intracranial jn-essure. They may serve as the channels along which infection is carried from the surface to the interior of the cranium. The following communications occur through emissary veins. (^4) The longitudinal sinus communicates with the temporal veins through one or both parietal foramina when present, and, in the child, with the veins of the nose through the foramen csecum. (B) The lateral sinus is connected with the occipital (or posterior auricular) vein through the mastoid foramen (the largest and most constant emissary), and sometimes with the vertebral vein through the posterior condylar foramen. (C) The cavernous sinus communicates with the pterygoid plexus through the foramen of Vesalius and the foramen ovale, as well as through the inferior oplitlialmic vein ; with the pharyngeal plexus tlirough the foramen lacerum medium ; and with the internal jugular vein by the carotid plexus through the carotid canal. (I)) The occipital sinus communicates with the vertebral and extraspinal veins through the anterior condylar foramen. {E) A small vein occasionally passes to the torcular through a foramen in the occipital bone, near the external occijiital protuberance. The Veins of the Brain. These open into the cranial sinuses and have several peculiarities. The Veins of the Ceeebrum. These have very thin walls from the absence of muscular tissue, and contain no valves. They are more numerous than the arteries, and, for the most part, do not accompany them. Those veins opening into the superior longitudinal sinus enter it against its current, after ascending with the arteries, instead of descending with the ascending arteries. The cerebral veins may be divided, like the arteries, into a superficial set on the surface, which anastomose freely together, and a deep set, which emerge from the ventricles by the transverse fissure. The Superficial Veins run in the fissures, and occasionally across the gyri, and are subdivided into superior and inferior groups. The Superior Cerebral Veins, eight to twelve in number on each side, pass inward and slightly forward from the upper surface of the cerebrum. After