218 THE ARTICULATIONS. to keep its relative position in forward or backward movement, respectively, of the shoulder-girdle. Or movement may take place on a horizontal axis, by which the glenoid cavity is turned farther upward or downward, as when the arm is raised or lowered. This motion, combined with elevation and depression of the clavicle, is spoken of as rotation of the Hcapida on a dorso-ventral axis passing through its centre or its upper angle. The movements at the acromio-clavicular joint, modifying the relation of the scapula to the clavicle, rarely take place bv themselves, but only in connection with the movements of the sterno-clavicular joint. In the combined movements of the clavicle and scapula the movements of the scapula are restricted by tlie shape of the chest-wall on which it lies, so that its principal movements are upward and forward, and downward and backward. In the above movements the vertebral border and tlic lower angle of the scapula are generally kept in contact with the thorax l)y the muscles attached—a condition allowed only by the acromio-clavicular joint. The conoid ligament suspends the scapula from the clavicle ; the trapezoid is tightened when the shoulder is pressed inward. The Ligaments of the Scapula (Fig. 237).—The coraco-acromial ligament is a flat, triangular band attached by its bi'oad base to the outer border of the coracoid process and by its blunt apex to the tip of the acromion. Binding together the acromion and coracoid processes, it forms an arch over the shoulder-joint which holds off the deltoid, and sujjports and protects the joint. Its ventral and dorsal margins are thick aad strong, leaving a thin membranous j)art between, with often a gap near the coracoid process. The deltoid covers its upper surface, which also looks a little forward ; its lower surface is sej)arated by a bursa from the cajjsule of the shoulder-joint. From its outer edge, which projects over the centre of the head of the humerus, a thin, tough fascia is continued under the deltoid and over the subacromial bursa and the shoulder-joint. The transverse, coraco-seapiUar or suprasraptilar lif/ament, con- tinuing the upper border of the scapula, bridges across the su])rascapular notch, converting it into a foramen, through which the supi'ascapular nerve passes, while the corresponding artery commonly passes above it. It is thin and flat, and is sometimes replaced by bone. The spino-fflenoid ligament comprises a few lax fibres which, by passing between the outer border of the spine and the margin of the glenoid cavity, bridge over the suprascapular vessels and nerves in passing between the supra- and infraspinous fossae. 3. The Shoulder-joint. (Figs. 238-240.) This ball-and-socket joint, between the large humeral head and the smaller, shallow glenoid cavity of the scapula, is one of the most perfect and most movable of joints. The surrounding muscles give strength and security to the joint, and, together with atmospheric pressui-e, hold the bones in position much more than do the ligaments. The glenoid fossa is deepened by the glenoid ligament, tri- angular on section with the base attached around the margin of the fossa. It is comjiosed of fibro-cartilage with scattered cartilage-cells. To its upper end is attached the long tendon of the biceps, which, dividing, is continued into both sides. Outside of this ligament the capsular ligament is attached to the scapula around the glenoid margin, sometimes reaching as far as half an inch from it in front. From this attachment it passes to the anatomical neck of the humerus. At the lower and inner part of the latter it is attached some distance from the Fig. 237.—Glenoid fossa of right side. (Testut.)