THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 736 the mandible, and upon the mesial side of its angle. The stylomandibular liga- ment runs between it and the parotid. Tlie facial artery grooves its back and upper border. The stihiiui.ri//ni\i/ <hu-i (^^'llarton's) is two inches long, runs for- ward and inward beneath and mesial to the sublingual gland to the side of the fnenum linguae, where it ends in a constricted orifice, close to its fellow of the opposite side. The Sublingual Gland. The sublingual (Fig. 794) is the smallest of the salivary glands. It lies in the gutter between the side of the tongue and the mandible, forming a long clevati(Mi beneath the mucous membrane of this part of the floor of the mouth. It has twenty or less ducts, which open for the most part directly above the gland, a few perhaps into the duct of the submaxillary. Structure of the Salivary Glands.—All of the salivary glands are of the com- pound racemose variety. They consist of lobules, which are held together by a variable amount of areolar tissue. Each lobule is an aggregation of acini ("grapes") or alveoli, which are the globular or tubular sacs, constituting the active part of the organ. These sacs are so nearly filleil with secreting ej)ithelial cells that the central channel is extremely small. The ducts nearest tlie acini are the radicles of the great stem which finally emerges from the gland. THE PANCREAS. The pancreas ("all flesh") (Figs. 795, 796) so closely resembles the parotid that it is sometimes called the abdominal salivary glaml. In some lower animals it is known as the sivcetbread. It lies across the front of the first and second Fig. 795.—The pancreas, ventral view. The superior mesenteric vessels are seen at the lower part of the head. (Drawn from the His cast. F. H. G.) lumbar vertebra?, and behind the stomach. It is covered anteriorly by the upper of the two layers, which go to form the transverse mesocolon. Its numerous lobes are held together so loosely that the whole mass is flabby, and can easily be moulded into shapes which are only remotely suggestive of the normal, which was not known until revealed by modern methods. It is a body of irregular form, flattened from before backward, and curved from right to left over the ver- tebral column. We recognize anterior and posterior surfaces of considerable extent, a very narrow upper surface, a lower border, and right and left extremi- ties. Its right end spreads out into a head, which fills the curve of the duodenum, to which it is firmly attached. Its left extremity is the tail, and reaches into the left hypochondriac region, even to the spleen. The intervening portion is the