THE OLFACTORY NERVE. 567 Deep Origin of the First or Olfactory Nerve.—When we speak of the first or olfactory (" smelling ") nerve, we usually mean the olfactory tract with its three roots and terminal bulb, and regard the twenty or more filaments, which spring from the bulb, as branches of the nerve. Embryology teaches us, however, that the tract is really a hollow outgrowth of the lateral ventricle, that the cells in the inferior segment of the bulb are homologous with the nucleus of a sensory nerve, and that the filaments which pierce the cribriform plate collectively represent the sensory nerve itself. The olfactory tract is a flattened band which lies in the olfiictory fissure on the orbital surface of the frontal lobe. On its under surface it is flat and lies on the olfactory groove of the sphenoid; superiorly it presents a ridge which fits into the olfactory fissure. Posteriorly it springs from the cerebral cortex in front of the anterior perforated space by three roots ; anteriorly it ends in the olfactory bulb. Microscopically the tract presents on transverse section, (a) a thin, gray cortex, continuous with the cortex cerebri; (6) an inner layer of raedullated nerve-fibres, thick inferiorly and thinning oft' above; and (c) some central gray substance consisting oif neuroglia and fibrous tissue—the remains of the ependyma of the embryonic ventricular cavity, which in adult man is obliterated. The internal or mesial root is a band of medullated nerve-fibres, running into the great longitudinal fissure, where it is lost in the anterior end of the callosal gyrus. The external or lateral root, larger than the internal, is a white band which crosses backward and outward over the anterior perforated space toward the extremity of the temporal lobe, where it ends in the hippocampal gyrus and per- haps the amygdala. The middle or gray root is best called the trigonum olfactorium, being only a slight elevation in the angle between the two roots just mentioned, and con- taining no non-medullated band of fibres which could properly be called a gray root. The olfactory bulb is oval in shape, about two-fifths of an inch long and a third as broad. Its upper surface presents a ridge continuous with the ridge of the olfactory tract, and like it received into the olfactory fissure of the frontal lobe. Its under surface is slightly convex, and lies on the cribriform plate of the eth- moid, and from it spring the twenty or more filaments which collectively form the olfactory nerve. The dorsal portion of the bulb consists of medullated nerve- fibres ; its ventral segment contains the nerve-cells, whose axis-cylinder processes form the medullated nerves of the tract, and whose bi'anching processes come into close relationship in the olfactory glomeruli with the branching ends of the olfactory filaments. These cells, therefore, form the nucleus of the olfactory nerve. It Avill be convenient here to complete the description of the olfactory nerve. The Olfactory Nerve (Figs. 628, 629). This nerve is represented by the twenty or more fine bundles of non-medul- lated fibres, which spring from the under surface of the olfactory bulb. They pierce the foramina in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, each receiving an investment of dura. Those piercing the inner line of foramina supply the upper third of the nasal septum (Fig. 628); the outer group supplies the lateral wall of the nose as low as the lower border of the superior turbinated bone (Fig. 629). The fibres communicate freely, forming a fine network. They commence as axis-cylinder processes of the olfactory cells of the Schneiderian membrane, and terminate by minutely branching processes in the glomeruli of the olfactory bulb.