410 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTE3L surface of the costal arch, and opposite each one of the lower intercostal spaces. It gives off an intercostal branch, and sends also a number of muscular Ijranches to the diaphragm. The superior epif/mtric, the other terminal branch, descends into the alxlominal wall, at first occupying a position between the rectus muscle and its posterior sheath, then passing into the substance of the rectus, and anasto- moses witli the deep epigastric artery. Surgical Anatomy (Fig. 442).—The surgical anatomy of the internal mam- mary includes tlie discussion of aneurism and injuries. The vessel can be ligated in any of the six upper intercostal spaces one-half inch external to the sternum. The best plan of operation is a transverse incision over a costal cartilage, exposure of the cartilage for an inch, removal of a section of the cartilage, and ligation of the vessel beneath. The Thyroid Axis. The tliyro'ul axis (Fig. 443, THY.) is a large trunk which arises from the anterior and superior surface of the first part of the subclavian, and divides into three branches, the inferior thyroid, the transversalis colli, and suprascapular. The Inferior Thyroid Artery ])asses upward and inward in I'ront of the ver- tebral and ])ehind the common carotid artery, internal jugular vein, and pneu- mogastric nerve to the inferior portion of the lateral lobe of the thyroid body, to which it is distributed. The recurrent laryngeal nerve passes sometimes in front and sometimes behind the artery ; it is in intimate relation to the vessel, and in ligating the artery this relationship must be borne in mind. Varieties.—The inferior thyroid is sometimes a branch of the vertebral or the common carotid, or instead of arising from the thyroid axis may be a branch from the sul)clavian. Surgical Anatomy (Fig. 453).—The inferior thyroid is sometimes ligated in lesions of the thyroid gland for the purpose of diminishing the blood supply. It must be ligated during the operation of extirpation of a thyroid lobe. Ligation of the inferior thyroid can be made by exjjosing the vessel by an incision along the inner border of the sterno-mastoid, beginning at the sterno-clavicular articu- lation and passing upward for four inches. After dividing the superficial struct- ures the carotid artery is drawn outward and the vessel is found external to the trachea ; the recurrent laryngeal nerve is in close contact Avith the vessel, and in the groove between the cesoi)hagus and trachea, usually in front of the vessel, and must be carefully avoided. Branches of the inferior thyroid are the muscular, ascending cervical, inferior larvngeal, tracheal and oesophageal. Iluscular branches are given off to the mus- cles with which it is in contact. The ascendivg cervical branch passes upward and outward over the scalenus anterior muscle, and anastomoses with branches from the occi])ital and ascending pharyngeal. The inferior laryngeal accom- panies the recurrent laryngeal nerve in its distribution to the larynx. The tracheal branches are distributed to the trachea, and tlie oesrjpjhageal to the ceso])hagus. The Suprascapular Artery passes outward and backward to the upper border of the scapula. Tlie vessel at first runs almost parallel with the clavicle. Reach- ing the u]>per liorder of the scapula, it winds into the supraspinous fossa, supply- ing the supraspinatus muscle, then passes into the infraspinous fossa supplying the infras]iinatus muscle ; its branches anastomose with Ijranches from the posterior scapular and the dorsal scapidar arteries. Varieties.—This vessel is sometimes a separate branch from the subclavian, sometimes a brancli from the axillary. Surgical Anatomy.—The vessel can be ligated by the same incision already described for the ligation of the third portion of the subclavian. Branches, in addition to the terminal branches already given, are, muscular to contiguous muscles, Huprastcrnal to the integument over the sterno-clavicular