THE COSTAL CARTILAGES. 129 head end does not bend up, but slightly down. The small head has but a single facet, the neck is long and narrow, and the tubercle and angle coincide. On the broad superior surface and close to the centre of the internal border is a rough mark, the scalene tubercle, the origin of the scalenus anterior muscle. It separates a groove in front for the subclavian vein from one behind for the subclavian artery. Behind the latter groove are attached the first digitation of the serratus magnus externally and the scalenus medius internally. The subcostal groove is wanting. The second rib (Fig. 152) has no upward curve of the head end, but it lies almost per- fectlv flat. The upper surface looks 1 obliquely outward, and has a promi- j nent I'oughness for the serratus mag- nus. The angle is but slightly marked. The tenth rib has usually a single facet on the head, sometimes two facets. The i eleventh rid has but f)ne facet, no neck or tubercle, a feel)le angle, and a shallow subcostal groove. The twelfth rib resembles the eleventh, but has no angle and no subcostal groove. It is shorter, and may be rudimentary, measuring less than 1 inch in length—an important point in lumbar incisions. It either lies flat on its lower border, or its head end may bend slightly down\\ard. Its outer surface may incline somewhat downward. Variations.—Thirteen ribs may occur on one cir both sides, from the presence of a cervical or lumbar rib. The additional ribs are developed from the costal processes, and are usually short and imjierfect, especially Avheii luml)ar. Very rarely a thirteenth thoracic rib occurs. The tenth rib may have no articular facet on the tubercle. Ossification.—The ribs are preformed in cartilage, and have a single primary centre near the angle. Much later two epiphyseal centres appear—one for the head and one for the tubercle—which become united to the rest of the bone by the twenty-fifth year. THE COSTAL CARTILAGES. : The costal cartilar/es are bars of hyaline cartilage prolonging the ribs toward the sternum. In direction the first passes slightly downward as well as inward, the second is horizontal, and the rest, down to the eleventh, are directed suc- cessively more and more upward in passing inward. Their breadth diminishes from the first to the twelfth, and is greater at the costal than at the sternal end of each cartilage. Their length increases to the seventh, and thence becomes gradually less. In shape they resemble the sternal ends of the ribs. The inner I extremities of the u])per seven are connected with the sternum, the first being- I fused with it, the others articulated. The cartilages of the upper three false ribs are attached at their upturned, narrow, inner ends to the lower border of the cartilages next above. The cartilages of the floating ril)S are short, and have a pointed free end. The borders and surfaces afford attachment to muscles—inter- nally to the triangularis sterni, from the second to the sixth, and to the diaphragm and transversalis in the lower six. The costal cartilages represent unossified epiphyses of the rib-shafts. The costal cartilages are covered by a thick peri- chondrium, beneath whicli superficial ossification may occur in advanced life. This change occurs quite regularly in the first cartilage, but in the others less. 9 TUBERCLE ' — "^NECK Fig. The first and second ribs of the right side, viewed from above. (Tcstut.)