THE BLOOD-VASCULAB SYSTEM. 468 joining others from tlie mesial surface, they open into the longitudinal sinus, running for some distance in its walls. The inferior cerebral veins collect the blood from the outer and under surfaces of the cerebrum, and open into the cavernous, superior petrosal, or lateral sinuses, according to their position. The lliddlc Cerebral Vein is one of large size, which overlies the fissure of Sylvius, receiving Ijranches from adjoining lobes, and ends in the cavernous sinus. The Great Anastomotic Vein of Trolard, by anastomosing on the parietal lobe with a branch of the middle cerebral vein and with one of the superior veins, establishes a communication between the cavernous and the supericn- longitudinal sinuses. Similarly the Posterior Anastomotic Vein of Lubbe connects the cavernous and lateral sinuses, by anastomosing with the middle cerebral vein on the temporal lobe. The Deep Cerebral Veins join to form two trunks, the Veins of Galen, which, beginning near the foramen of Monro by the union of the choroid vein and the vein of the corpus striatum on each side, pass back, parallel with and near each other, between the layers of the velum interpositum. Beneath the splenium of the corpus callosum they pass out of the brain at the great transverse fissure, after joining to form a single trunk (vena magna Galeni), which ascends to enter the straight sinus. The choroid vein runs forward and upward along the outer border of the choroid plexus (the blood of which it returns) to its fore part where, near the foramen of Monro, it joins the vein of the corpus striatum. The latter runs for- ward in the groove between the corpus striatum and the optic thalamus, receiving branches from tliem and the neighboring parts. It joins the choroid vein as above described. Each vein of Galen, just before it joins its fellow, receives the basilar vein of each side which, formed by the union of the anterior cerebral vein, the deep Sylvian vein, and the inferior striate vein, passes backward and around the cms cerebri to its termination. The anterior cerebral vein runs from the genu of the corpus callosum, the deep Sylvian veins from the insula and adjacent parts (com- municating with the middle cerebral vein), and the inferior striate vein descends through the anterior perforated space from the corpus striatum. The Veins of the Cerebellum. These are divided into two sets, superior and inferior, according to tlieir posi- tion. Of the superior cerebellar veins some run inward and ujjward to the straight sinus and the great vein of Galen, others run outward to the superior petrosal and lateral sinuses. The in ferior cerebellar veins are larger than the superior, and some of them together with the veins of the oblongata and pons, run outward and forward to the inferior petrosal and lateral sinuses, while others pass backward to the occipital sinus. THE VEINS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. Two sets of veins are distinguished in the extremities, superficial and deep, the latter of wliieh accompany the arteries, while the superficial set are larger, return more of the blood, and lie between the layers of the superficial fascia. The two sets communicate at frequent intervals. Valves are numerous in both sets, but more so in the deep veins, and are regularly found where a branch joins a trunk, or the deep veins join tlie superficial. The Superficial Veins of the Upper Extremity (Figs. 499, 500). These commence in two plexuses, viz., a large plexus on the dorsum of the hand, which receives the digital veins from the fingers, and is sometimes sub- divided into two parts, a radial and an ulnar ; and a smaller pferus on the front