278 THE MUSCLES. flexed, and this fact explains the difficulty experienced by pianists in lifting the annularis separately fr(jni the keys. Nerve, the posterior interosseous branch of the musculo-spiral. Extensor Minimi Digiti (Figs. 310-313).—"The extensor of the smallest digit"—/. e,, of the little linger. Synonym, extensor digiti quinti proprius, "the proper extensor of the fifth digit"—" proper " to distinguish it from the part of the extensor communis which acts upon this finger. Situedion, in the back of the forearm and hand. Origin, the external condyle of the humerus. Insertion: its tendon, which is commonly split, blends with the fourth tendon of the extensor communis above the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, and the resulting tendon goes t() the second and third phalanges of the little finger (see extensor communis digitorum). Action, extension of the second and third jjhalanges of the little finger. Nerre, posterior interosseous branch of the musculo-spiral. Extensor Indicis (Figs. 299, 314).—" The extensor of the index finger." Syno- /)yn).s', extensor indicis pi'oprius, "the proper extensor of the index finger"— " proper " to distinguish it from the part of the extensor communis which acts upon this digit; the indicator muscle. Situation, the back of the lower part of the forearm and hand. Origin, the back of the ulna below the extensor longus poUicis, and a little of the interosseous membrane. Direction, downward and outward. Insertion, the first tendon of the extensor communis digitorum, near the metacarpo-i)halangeal joint (see extensor communis digitorum). Action, exten- sion and slight adduction of the index. Nerve, the posterior interosseous branch of the musculo-spiral. Interossei Dorsales (Fig. 315).—" The muscles between the bones on the back " X X Fig. 315—Interossei dorsales of right hand. The line x x is that from which abduction is made. (Testut.) of the hand. Number, four. The first and largest is called abductor indicis, "the abductor of the index finger." The abductor minimi digiti belongs func- tionally in this group ; but it is not interosseous. Situation, one in each meta- carpal' interspace near the dorsal aspect. Origin, each from the two bones