710 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. Chondroglossus.—" The cartilage-tongue muscle," so called from its attach- ments to the small cornu (which is usually cartilaginous) of the hyoid and to the tongue. tSitaation, at the side of the tongue below, under cover of the hyoglossus. Origin, the small cornu and body of the hyoid. Direction, upward and forward. Insertion, the dorsum of the tongue. Action : it retracts and depresses the tongue. Nerve, the hypoglossal. THE PHARYNX. Behind the nasal passages, the mouth, and the larynx, beneath the base of the skull, and above the upper end f)f the gullet, is a Iiollow organ of irregular shape, which belongs not only to the alimentary tube, but to the respiratory system, also. It has no name in our vernacular, but is known technically as the 'pharynx (Fig. 745). The upper part, behind the nose, is the naso-phari/n.r; the middle portion, back of the mouth, is the oro-pharynx; and the lowest segment, dorsal to the larynx, is the laryngo-pharynx. The anterior lower limit of the naso-pharynx is at the border of the hard palate; of the oro-pharynx at the upper level of the hyoid bone ; and of the laryngo-pharynx at the lower level of the cricoid cartil- age, which nearly coincides with that of the fifth cervical vertebra. Food passes from the mouth into the oro-pharynx, through the laryngo- pharynx, and into the gullet; and inspired air goes from the nose into the naso- pharynx, through the oro-pharynx, and enters the larynx. Thus the middle seg- ment of this organ is common to the alimentary and respiratory systems, and the tracks followed by the food and the air cross obliquely in it. Like the mouth the pharynx is bilaterally symmetrical. It is widest (nearly one inch and a half) in the upper laryngeal portion, and narrows above and below, having its least diameter (half an inch) at its junction with the gullet. Ventro-dorsally its measurement is everywhere small, only opposite the mouth being more than four-fifths of an inch. It is about five inches long. In short, the cavity of the pharynx may fairly be regarded as a wide side-to-side chink, in front of the upper five cervical vertebra?. Openings of the Pharynx.—In the naso-pharynx are four openings—one at each side for the Eustachian tube, leading to the middle ear, and one forward for each of the lateral halves of the nose,—the posterior nares. In the oro- pharynx is the opening from the mouth, the isthmus of the fauces, between the anterior jiillars of the palate. The laryngo-pharynx opens at its lower end into the gullet, and at its upjier, anterior part into the larynx. The pharynx is firmly fastened to the neighboring parts at its summit, and in the front part of its nasal and oral j^ortions ; but its attachments elsewhere are areolar and loose, so that its lower third can be elevated, and its rear wall advanced, as in swallowing. Tunics of the Pharynx.—Here, as elsewhere in tlie alimentary tube, the wall is comjjosed of three coats ; but the middle one is so much condensed that its areolfe are largely obliterated, and the tunic is more like a fascial layer. The mucous membrane, continuous Avith that of the nose, middle ears, mouth, larynx, and gullet, is covered with ciliated cells as far down as the level of the hard palate, but below tliis is flattened and non-ciliated. On the back (dorso- superior surface) of the soft palate the cells are ciliated, except at the free edge. In and beneath the mucosa are many racemose, mucous glands. The corium is particularly rich in lym])hoid tissue, and at the pharyngeal vault and across the posterior jiart of the oro-pharynx are accumulations of lymplioid material, which, on account of similarity of structure, have been named the phorynr/eal tonsil. High up in the middle line, and running upward and backward to the base of the skull is a blind dej)ression, called the pharyngeal bu7-sa. The muscular tunic is composed of five pairs of muscles, of which three are constrictors—upper, middle, and lower—having for their function the diminution