834 THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. formatiou of the decidua. The nienihraiie, as soon as tlie ovule has been engrafted upon it, loses its cylindrical epithelium while the cells of the corium increase. The ridges of the arbor vitte disappear ; otherwise there is but little change in the cervix. At parturition the greater part of the mucous meml)rane is destroved to be restored in twenty to twenty-five days by the same method as after* men- struation. Following parturition the uterus never attains its former (virgin) size. Variations Depending on Age.—In the foetus, the uterus is contained in the abdominal cavity, the cervix is larger than the body, the fundus is iindeveloped, and the ridges of the arbor vitae are distinct. At jniberty, the cervix and body are about equal in length, and the fundus has reached the level of the pelvic brini. In the old tiie entire organ atrofihies. Vessels and Nerves (Fig. 897).—The arferie.<< which sup])ly the uterus are arranged in threi' pairs—the uterine, the funicular, and the ovarian. The nterine artenj is a branch of the anterior division of the internal iliac. From its origin TUBftL VESSELS OS uteri' uagin* cut open behind Fig. 897.—Vessels of the uterus and its appendages, rear view. (Testut.) it descends along the pelvic wall into the base of the broad ligament, then, taking a horizontal course, it crosses in front of the ureter and reaches the side of the cer- vix at the level of the vaginal insertion or a little below. From this point it is reflected upward, running close beside the lateral border of the uterus until it reaches the superior angle, where it ends by dividing into two branches, one of which anastomoses with the ovarian artery while the other is distributed to the Fallopian tube. From the ascending portion of the vessel numerous transverse tortuous branches are given off to the anterior and posterior surfaces of the uterus. These ]ienetrate the uterine walls, and ramify in the middle muscular layer, where they divide into two sets of branches, superficial and deep. The former return to sup])ly the outer muscular layer and the serous coat, the latter are distributed to the mucous membrane, forming plexuses in its superficial layers and around the glands. At the level of the isthmus the transverse branches are larger than else- where, and, with the corresjionding divisions of the opposite artery, they form on the outer surface of the uterus the arterial circle of Hugnier. Several small liranches to the bladder and vagina arise from the uterine artery at or near its point of reflection. The fiuiicii/ar ("pertaining to a rope") artery, from the superior vesical, joins the round ligament at the internal abdominal ring and divides into two branches, superior and inferior. The former accompanies the ligament to the superior angle of the uterus, where it anastomoses with the uterine and ovarian arteries ; the latter follows the ligament to its distal termination.