THE VEINS. 463 accompanying the ascending cervical artery, and receiving branches from the neigliboring muscles. The deep cervical vein {posterior vertebral) descends at the back of the neck, in company with the deep cervical artery, from the suboccipital plexus, through which it receives the occipital vein. Below the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra it turns forward to empty into the lower end of the vertebral vein. The Veixs of the Diploe (Fig. 495). These are contained in a plexus of bony channels in the cancellous tissue of the bones of the roof and sides of the skull. They are arranged in four groups, Fig. 495.—Veins of the diploe. The outer table of cranial boues is removed. (Testut.) w'hose trunks descend to communicate with the meningeal veins, the sinuses of the dura and the veins of the scalp. They are named frf)m their position. The frontal veins of the diploe open into the supra-orbital vein at the bottom of the supra-orbital notch or foramen. The anterior temporal veins open into the deep temporal veins through an opening in the great wing of the sphenoid. The posterior temporal veins join the lateral sinus through the mastoid foramen or an opening at the dorso-inferior angle of the parietal bone. The occipital veins open into the occipital vein externally, or into the lateral sinus internally. In foetal life the veins of each bone are distinct, but they anastomose freely after the bones come together. The Venous Sinuses of the Cranium (Figs. 496, 497). These are venous channels situated between the two layers of the dura, and lined by a continuation of the lining raemln'ane of tlie veins. They collect the l)lo()d from the brain, orbit, and eyel)all, and some of that from the meninges and diploe, and emjrty into the internal jugular vein. They communicate with the superficial veins by means of the emimirii veins, passing through certain foramina in the cranium. They may be divided into two groups, tlie one situated above and behind, the other at the base of the skull; the former including the superior and inferior longitudinal, the straight, the lateral, and the occipital sinuses, while the latter embraces the cavernous, the circular, the basilar, and the inferior and superior petrosal sinuses. The Superior Longitudinal Sinus extends in the median line along the attached