THE VEINS. 459 The Transverse Nasal Vein arches across the bridge of the nose, and unites the two angular veins, or the h^wer ends of the frontal veins. The Frontal Vein is formed by branches from the forehead and the forepart of the scalp, which communicate with the anterior division of the temporal vein. These tributaries pass downward and inward to form a trunk which, connected with its fellow by cross-branches, descends nearly vertically on the side of the median line to a point a little below the inner end of the eyebrow, where it is joined by the supra-orbital vein and becomes the angular vein. The right and left frontal veins sometimes unite into a single median trunk, Avhich bifurcates at the root of the nose into the two angular veins. The Supra-orbital Vein is a smaller vessel which collects the blood from the lower and lateral part of the forehead, upper eyelids, etc., and passes obliquely downward and inward to join with the frontal vein in forming the angular. It communicates laterally with the temporal, and dorsally with the ophthalmic vein and the frontal vein of the diploe. The facial vein receives lateral tributaries, corresponding to the branches of the artery (/. e., inferior palatine, submaxillary, submental, inferior laljial, infe- rior and superior coronary, and lateral nasal) and in addition the following: The inferior palpebral veins, two or three in number, descend from tlie lower eyelid, where a communication with the infra-orbital vein is established. The anterior internal maxillary vein or deep facial vein passes downward and forward from the pterygoid plexus. It crosses the zygomatic sui'face of the max- illa, and opens into the facial vein beneath the zygomaticus major muscle. Small buccal, masseteric, and parotid veins are received from the buccinator and masseter muscles and the glandula socia parotidis, respectively. Sometimes the lingual vein joins the facial. (See lingual vein.) The free communications between the facial vein and its tributaries and the ophthalmic vein, none of which contain valves, account for the danger of septic thrombi extending backward through the ophthalmic vein to the cranial sinuses in case of carbuncle or anthrax of the face. B. LATERAL, REGION. The Temporo-maxillary Vein {posterior facial) is formed by the union of the temporal and maxillary veins in the substance of the parotid gland behind the neck of the mandible. It descends in the substance of the parotid gland super- ficial to the external carotid artery to about the angle of the jaw, where it divides into two parts. The anterir/r division passes downward and forward to join the facial vein, forming the common facial vein, while the posterior division is joined by the posterior auricular vein to form the external jugular vein. The posterior auricular vein may join the tem])oro-raaxillary vein before bifurcation of the latter, in which case the anterior division is j^roperly a branch of the external jugular vein. The Superficial Temporal Vein collects the blood from the parietal region of the scalp, where communicating branches connect it with the supra-orbital and frontal veins in front, the veins of the opposite side above, and the posterior auricular and occipital veins behind. Its branches unite into two trunks which, corresponding to the divisions of the artery, converge and unite in front of the ear into a single trunk. The Middle Temporal Vein receives the blood from the temporal muscle, and is joined by the orbital branch, wliich, corresponding to the artery of the same name, communicates with the ophthalmic vein. Piercing the fascia near the zygoma it joins the superficial temporal to form the common temporcd vein. The middle ternporcd vein communicates with the pterygoid plexus through the deep temporal veins, a branch of that plexus corresponding to the arteries of the same name. The Common Temporal Vein crosses the base of the zygoma just in front of the ear, and thence descends in the parotid gland external to the temporal artery. It