188 THE BONES. slightly depressed, and from its prominent lateral angles, or mental (" chin ") tubercles, the rather faint external oblique line extends backward and npward to become eontinuons with the anterior border of the coronoid jn-ocess. Below the incisor teeth on each side is the incisor fossa. Midway between the npper and lower borders and in line with tiie second bicuspid tooth, or the interval between the two bicuspids, is the mental foramen, transmitting the mental nerve and vessels from the dental canal. The internal surface presents at the symphysis, superiorly, a linear groove, ending below in a small foramen, below which are two pairs of genial (" chin ") tubercles, sometimes fused into a single median ridge. The up]X'r pair attaches the geuio-hyoglossi muscles, and a small median ridge, attaching the genio-hyoid muscles, usually takes the place of the lower ])air. Below and on each side of this, and close to the lower border, is a rough depression for the anterior belly of the digastric muscle. Beginning above the latter and at the CON DY LE Fig. 215.—The risht half of the mandible, inner surface. (Testut.) side of the lower genial tubercle on each half of the bone, the internal oblique line or nu/lo-h'i/oid ridge ^assen backward and u])ward to the ramus. This attaches the mylo-hyoid muscle, and, at the posterior end, the superior constrictor muscle and the pterygo-maxillary ligament. Above the line, on each side of the symphysis, is the shallow sublingual fossa for the sublingual gland ; and below it, at the side, is the submaxillary fossa for the submaxillary gland. The .superior or alveolar border on each side presents the sockets for the roots of eight teeth, and exter- nally attaches the buccinator as far forward as the first molar. The inferior border, thick, smooth, and rounded, projects beyond the upper, and is grooved for the facial artery near its junction with the ramus. The ramus is quadrilateral and thinner than the body. The masseter mus- cle is inserted on its external surface. On the internal surface, about its mid- dle, is the inferior dental foramen, leading to the inferior dental canal for the inferior dental vessels and nerves. This canal is nearer the inner surface behind and the outer in front where it connects with the mental foramen. It commu- nicates by a series of fine channels with the bottom of each tooth-socket. The front and inner edge of the foramen is sharp and prominent, forming the lingula, which attaches the spheno-mandibular or long internal lateral ligament of the jaw. Behind the lingula and below the foramen the mylo-hyoid groove (some- times a canal at first) starts in its downward and forward course beneath the mylo-hyoid ridge, and lodges the mylo-hyoid nerve and vessels. Between this groove and the angle the internal pterygoid muscle is in.serted on a rough trian- gular space. The lower border, continuous with that of the body, meets the posterior border at the angle of the jaw. This is usually slightly everted, and attaches behind the stylo-mandil)ular fold of fascia. The sharp, concave upper border, known as the sigmoid notch, separates the two processes, and is crossed by I the masseteric nerve and artery. The hind process, or condyle, surmounts the i posterior border on a constricted portion, or neck, in front of which, internally, '