THE LUMBAR GROUP. 119 Fig. 140.—Lumbar vertebra, viewed from above. (Testut.) what backward. Fi-om their outer The tenth articulates with but one pair of ribs. It has no demi-facets below, and the upper facets are usually complete, and mainly on the pedicle. The eleventh has a complete facet on the base of each pedicle, and none on the short transverse processes. The large body is elongated transversely, and the spinous process is short, stout, and horizontal, thus a])proaching the lumbar type. The twelfth resembles the lumbar still more in its body, spinous and transverse processes. The latter are short, and present external, superior, and inferior tubercles, corresponding to the transverse, mammillary, and accessory jjrocesses of the lumbar vertebrse. The inferior articular processes look outward, as in the lumbar. As to facets, it resembles the eleventh. All the thoracic vertebras are thus seen to have either entire or demi-facets above, and only the first eight or nine have demi-facets below. Variety.—The tenth vertebra occasionally has no facets on the transverse processes. THE LUMBAR GROUP. The five lumbar vertebra; (Fig. 140) are characterized bv their large size and the absence of costal articular facets. The bodiefi are elongated transversely, and I are slightly deeper in front than behind from the third down. The larn'mm are strong, short, and deep. The spinous processes are thick, hori- zontal, and broad from above downward. The slender so-called transverse processes project out- ward from the pedicles in serial ' line with the lower ribs. They are in reality costal processes, and sometimes are developed into lum- bar ribs, especially in the first lumbar vertebra. At their bases, dorsally, a small process is seen to project downward—the accessor}/ tubercle or rudimentary transverse process. The facets of the superior articular processes are slightly con- cave, and look inward and some- edges a tubercle projects backward, the mammillary process, wiiich corresponds to the su]>erior tubercle of the lower thoracic vertebrse. The facets of the inferior articular processes look outward and slightly forward. They are nearer together, and are embraced by the superior processes, but not so closely as to prevent slight lateral and rotatory movements between the vertebrse. The foramen is triangular and larger than in the thoracic vertebrae. The fifth lumbar vertebra is transitional, ap])roximating the sacral. Its body is large, wedge-shaped, and much deeper in front than behind. To articulate with the first sacral vertebra its infei'ior articular processes are as wide apart as the superior. The transverse processes are large, broad, and conical, sometimes articulating with the sacral alse. The spinous process is short. Varieties.—In a small percentage (estimated at 5 per cent.) of cases the fifth lumbar vertebra is so seyiarated into two parts through the arch that the dorsal segment consists of laminse, spinous and inferior articular processes. Varieties as to the Number of Movable Vertebree.—The cervical vei"tebrae are remarkably free from variation in nnmber, not only in man, l)ut in all mammals, with two or three exceptions. Variation in the number of thoracic and lumbar vertebrae may be reciprocal when it depends ujion an increase or decrease in the number of pairs of lower ribs, causing an increase in the thoracic and a decrease