559 THE 3IEMBRANES. The principal processes of the dura are the tentorium, the falx cerebri, and the falx cerebelli. The tentorium (" tent") springs from the borders of the superior petrosal and the horizontal part of the lateral sinuses. From this origin it rises toward the centre, and terminates in a free border, which extends forward and is attached on each side to the anterior and posterior clinoid processes. There is thus left a large opening, in which is situated the niesencejihalon. The tentorium is spread between the cerebellum and tlie occipital portion of the cerebrum, protecting tlie former from the superincunil)ent pressure of the latter. The falx cerebri (" sickle of the brain ") is so called from its shape. It is attached anteriorly to the crista galli, posteriorly to the median part of the up^ier VEIN Fig. 622.—Falx cerebri and tentorium, left lateral view. (Testut.) surface of the tentorium, and for tlie rest of its extent to the ridges bounding the great longitudinal sinus. It dips into the great fissure between the hemispheres, deeply behind, and progressively less so as it is traced to the front. It thus forms a tightly stretched, median septum, Avhich prevents the pressui'e of one hemis|)here upon the other in the lateral movements of the head, just as the fore- and-aft partition in a vessel keeps the cargo from shifting from side to side in the lurchings of the craft at sea. The falx cerebri encloses the superior longitudinal sinus peripherally, the straight sinus in its tentorial attachment, and the inferior longitudinal sinus in its free border. The falx cerebelli is a small median septum between the cerebellar hemi- spheres behind. It is broadest above, where it is attached to the under surface of the tentorium, and tapers rapidly as it descends. It encloses the occipital sinus in its posterior border. Under the names of diaphragm of the sella and terdorhnn of the hypophy><is a small double fold of the dura extends inward from all sides over the sella tur- cica, covering the hypophysis, and leaving a little aperture for the apex of the