194 THE BONES. the recent state. In an oblique line from the mastoid process to the external pterygoid plate we find projecting the styloid jjrocess, the v(i(jhi(d process of the tympanic bone, and the spijtc of ihe sphenoid, the latter at the inner end of the Glaserian fissure. On this surtlice is seen laterally the emineidia artieidaris in front of the articular part of the glenoid fossa, which is separated by the Glaserian fissure from the non-articular portion on the outer surface of the tympanic plate, which lodges the parotid gland. The line limiting this region behind passes through the jugular processes of the occipital bone, and cuts the condyles a little behind their centre. The posterior or suboccipital division extends back to the superior curved lines of the occipital bone, divided into two lateral halves by the external occipital crest. It includes, mainly, rough lines and intervening spaces for muscular attachment. Behind the condyles are the posterior condylar fossce and foramina when the latter are present. Internal to and slightly behind the mastoid processes are the digastric and occipital grooves, for the digastric muscles and the occipital arteries respectively. Fig. 222.—Front view of the skull, the mandible having been removed. (Testut.) The anterior or facial region (Fig. 222) presents the nasioi}, in the centre of'' the naso-frontal suture, below the glabella. Below the nasion is the prominent bridr/e of the nose, formed by the nasal bones and the nasal processes of the maxilljB. Below this is the anterior nasal aperture, which is shaped like an inverted heart and is often unsymmetrical. Its thin margins attach the nasal cartilages, and its lower border projects forward as the anterior nasal spine. In the, recent state it is bisected by the septal cartilages. Below this, on either side, are the incisor fossae. On either side of the bridge of the nose are the orbits, below which are the canine fossce, and external to the latter the prominences of th( cheeks, formed by the malar bones. The teeth are a prominent feature of thi; region, and below them the body of the lower jaw completes the anterior surface The three large_/bm)H//ir/, supraorbital, infraorbital, and mental, each for a brand of one of the three divisions of the fifth nerve, lie in a nearly vertical line drawi through the second lower bicuspid tooth or the interval between the two lowe bicuspids. The small malar canal is situated more laterally on the malar bone The orbits are two irregularly quadrilateral, pyramidal fossjE which lodge th eyeballs and their muscles, nerves, and vessels. The base of each, directed for