151 THE FEMUR. angle of about 15° with the horizon. This tilting of the pelvis brings the sacrum more or less on top, where, however, it docs not form the keystone of the arch, for its widest aspect looks downward into the pelvis ; and the bone is held in place mainly by the strong posterior sacro-iliac ligaments, and only slightly by the projection of the lower and ventral margins of the ilio-auricnlar surfaces. The weight of the body is transmitted from the sacro-iliac joint in an arch along the massive ilio-pectineal line to the acetabulum in the standing position, and to the ischial tuberosities in the sitting posture. The horizontal rami of the ossa pubis Fig. 170.—The female pelvis, rear view. (Testut.) form the counter-arches or ties to the former arch, the combined ischial and pubic rami to the latter arch. The pressure along the arches and counter-arches when the bones are softened by rickets or osteomalacia causes various deformities of the pelvis. 8ex differences relate to both size and form. In the female the bones are lighter and smoother. The cavity is broader, more capacious, and less deep. The symphysis is not so deep, the pubic arch wider, the i.schial tuberosities more expanded, and the sacrum flatter and broader. The sacral promontory is less projecting, giving the pelvic inlet a more oval shape. The thyroid foramina are more triangular. The differences of sex are noticeable in early life ; but in gen- eral all pelves are more or less of the male type until about puberty, when the female characteristics become marked. The following table represents the average measurements of the pelvis in inches : Diameters. Male. Temale. Brim. Cavity. Outlet. Brim. Cavity. Outlet. 5 4| U H 5 4f Conjugate or ventro-dorsal 4 4i 3i 5 4i Oblique (from the sacro-iliac joint to the ilio-pectineal 4f 4i 4 5 5^ 4J THE FEMUR. The femur (Figs. 171, 172), the largest and longest bone in the body, is inclined inward and slightly backward, so as to approach its fellow inferiorly. It extends between and articulates Avith the hip-bone above and the tibia below. The upper extremity includes the head, the neck, and the two trochanters,