740 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. Fig. 799.—Hepatic lobule in transverse section, show- ing the distribution of its blood-vessels, a, a, interlobu- lar veins ; b, intralobular vein ; c, c, c, plexus of capillary blood-vessels within the lobule ; d, li, twigs of interlobu- lar vein, passing to the adjacent lobules. (Dalton.) supply the lobules on both sides of it, as easily as upon one side, and this is exactly what obtains. As tlie vessels are between lobules, they receive the name imply- ing this, interlobular ; the cajjillary networks inside of the lobule are called intra- lobular (" within the lobule "), and the same name is applied to the central vein which carries away from the lobule the blood which is brought to it both by the portal vein and by the hepatic arterv (Fig. 799.) The intralobular veins in a given region discharge into a very much larger vein, upon whose outer surface rest a vast number of lobules ; and, therefore, the name sublobular (" under the lobule") is given to this kind of veins. These last empty into still larger veins, the hepatic, the greater part of them converging to a few large trunks, which terminate in the inferior vena cava, ■where it lies embedded in the posterior surflice of the gland, and the remainder of them reaching the same destination directly. Thus it is seen that the blood which enters the portal vein and passes through the liver, by way of any lobule, must traverse the follo\^ing vessels in succession : portal vein, interlobular vein, intralobular cajiil- lary plexus, intralobular vein, sub- lobular vein, hepatic vein, inferior vena cava. The nourishing blood passes by way of the following vessels : hepatic artery, interlobular arterv, its own intra- lobular capillaries, portal intralobular ca])illary plexus, intralobular vein, sub- lobular vein, hepatic vein, inferior vena cava,—its course beyond its own plexus being identical with that jjursued by the portal blood. The Hepatic Cells, which are the essential elements in the lobule,—the active workers in the bile-factory—are irregular bodies, with flattened sides, and each measures about one thousandth of an inch in diameter. They are composed of granular protoplasm, have no cell-wall, but each has a single, cleai", central nucleus. The Form of the Liver. Although the liver is a solid organ, its consistency is not sufficient to prevent its changing its shape materially when it is removed from the body. If placed upon a board, its weight so causes it to sprawl in different directions as to pro- duce an exaggerated idea of its lateral and antero-posterior dimensions, and an inadequate conception of its greatest thickness. When it is made to rest upon its upper surface, its mass sags to such an extent that the proper distinction between its inferior and posterior surfaces is obliterated, and the two seem to be one. To obtain a correct view of the liver, it should be hardened by some pro- cess while in its natural relations with contiguous organs. The pictures of its surfaces here given have been drawn from a cast of a liver frozen in situ. If the student will but remember that the vena cava inferior, which is for some inches actually embedded in the liver, always pursues a substantially perpendicular course, he will have no difficulty in seeing that the part of the viscus containing tills great vessel must be behind and not beneath. Vesalius, the father of modern anatomy, described and figui'cd the posterior surface in his great folio of 1555; but the correct view was lost sight of, and the grossly perverse presentation has been allowed to pass muster without question until very recent years, and even now the hind surface is not universally recognized.