THE LA R YNX. 767 of accident or disease. In health only enough serous fluid is found between the layers to lubricate them and allow slipping of one upon the other with the least possible friction. The right jileura extends downward in the axillary line to the lower border of the ninth rib ; the left pleura goes to the border of the tenth rib, the greater thickness of the liver on the right side explaining the difference. The pleural sacs of the two sides nearly meet at the mid-line of the sternum. At the hilum of the lung the ])ulmonary pleura from al)ove is reflected to the root, and thence to the mediastinal ])ieura; the visceral layers in front of and behind the vertical plane of the hilum not only cover the root, but come together directly beneath it, and form a double-layered, triangular sheet, extending vertically from the root of the lung to the diajihragm, and laterally from the lung to the mediastinal pleura. This fold is the broad ligament of the lung. The pleura upon the lung is delicate and so closely attached that it cannot be readily separated. The costal pleura is thick, and easily detached. The cervical pleura is liable to be injured in operations just above the clavicle. The visceral pleura is supplied by the bronchial artei'ies ; the diaphragmatic and costal by the diaphragmatic and intercostal arteries ; and the mediastinal l)y the posterior mediastinal, bronchial, internal mamraaiy, and superior diaphrag- matic. The nerves of the parietal pleura are the intercostal, pneumogastric, phrenic, and sympathetic ; of the pulmonary pleura branches from the pulmonary plexus. THE LARYNX. The larynx is that portion of the air-passages which is so specially modified that it serves as the principal organ of voice. It connects the upper end of the trachea with the pharynx, and lies in front of the lowest segment of the latter, being itself thinly covered anteriorly by muscles, fasciae, and skin. It is the occasion of the protrusion {p&mum Adami) which is plainly to be felt, and in adult males generally to be seen, in the middle of the fore part of the neck. Its framework consists of a series of firm cartilages, held to each other, to the wind- pipe and to the hyoid bone by ligaments, which permit varying degrees of motion. Mucous membrane, continuous with that of the jiharynx above, and the trachea below, lines the larynx, the cavity of which is wide at both ends, but constricted in the middle in such a way that a median, fore-and-aft cleft, the glottis (rima glottidis, " the cleft of the glottis ") is produced. During ordinary, easy breathing, the cleft is wide open, and no noise is made ; but, if it is narrowed, voice is caused by the forcible discharge of air from the lungs, and the pitch is determined by the degree of the narrowing, a nearly complete closure resulting in a high tone, and a large separation determining a low one. The sides of the glottis are composed of fibrous bands, wdiich are approximated and separated by the action of the muscles which cause movements of 'the cartilages. These bands are known as the true vocal cords, and are the most essential jDortion of the organ- ism of the larynx, the work of other parts being directed to the production of proper attitudes in these cords. Besides its cons])icuous function in the production of voice the larynx \)cr- forms an important service in preventing the entrance to the air-passages below it of substances in process of being swallowed. This is accomplished mainly by the complete closure of the chink of the glottis. The same act, accomplished when the lungs are full, serves to prevent the expiration of the air, and thus to fix the diaphragm and make jiossible such compression of certain hollow organs of the abdomen as is necessary for the expulsion of their contents, as in defeca- tion, micturition, vomiting, parturition.