844 THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. The weight of the breast is usually above five ounces in the inactive condition. The secreting structure of the breast consists of from ten to twenty separate lobes, each of which is a compound, racemose, acinous gland. Each of these large: sebaceous GLANDS J. CONCENTRIC RIOGES SKIN OF BREAST" Fig. 904—Nipple and 'I a virgin. (Testut.) SECONDARY AREOLA glands is made up of lobules, which are colonies of alveoli, and has its own ulti- mate excretory duct, called galadophorous or lactiferous ("milk-carrying"). The ducts from all parts of the breast converge toward the nipple, and, when they reach the areola, each dilates into a sinus or ampulla, half an inch long and half as wide, which serves as a little reservoir for the milk. Beyond this the duct is reduced to a small calibre, and terminates at the summit of the nipple in a con- ti'acted orifice. The alveoli and ducts are lined with a simple epithelium, partly flattened and partly cuboidal or cylindrical. The wall of tlie ducts is composed of mixed white and yellow fibrous tissues, arranged in longi- tudinal and circular bundles. The proper gland-substance is supported on a framework of the fibrous tissues, which also form an enclosing capsule for the organ. This capsule sends processes inward between the lobes and lobules, and processes outward to the deep surface of the skin. Among the masses of glandular material are many nodules of adipose tissue, which are of greatest size near the convex surface, though some con- siderable collections are found at the flat, hind surface of the gland. No fat, however, apjjeafs beneath the nipple and areola. The mammilla, is composed of skin, pecu- liarly modified, and containing the terminal portion of the milk-ducts. It is dark, wrinkled, be.set with papilla?, which are extremely sensi- tive, but has no sweat-glands or hairs. It is very vascular, and among the ves- sels are many fibres of mistriped muscular tissue—an arrangement which gives it the properties of erectile tissue, so that under the stimulus of contact or even emotion, it may swell and become rigid. Its summit presents the orifices of the many lactiferous ducts. The areola resembles tlie uijiple in color and in structure, being pigmented and somewhat erectile. In addition it is dotted over with little, roundish pro- jections, due to large, .'Sebaceous glands in the skin, in connection with each of which is a delicate, minute hair. Modifications.—In women who have not become pregnant the glandular tissue Fig. 905.—Nipple and areolae of a preg- nant woman. (Testut.)