THE VEINS. 479 The Superior 3Tesenferie Vent accompanies the corresponding artery, lying to the right and in front of it, and returns the bh>od from the parts supplied by it (the small intestine, csecum, ascending and transverse colon) by Ijranches cor- responding to those of the artery. It passes upward l:>et\veen the layers of the mesentery, and then in front of the third part of the duodenum and behind the pancreas, where, after receiving the right gastro-e^iiploi'c vein, it joins the splenic vein to form the portal vein. The Inferior Ilesenteric Vein returns the blood from the rest of the large intestine (rectum, sigmoid flexure, and descending colon). Commencing in the hemorrhoidal plexus of the lower end of the rectum, where it freely anastomoses SUPRARENAL CAPSULE VERTEERa i COMMON HEPATIC BILE DUCT ARTERY Fig. 508.—Transverse horizontal section througli the foramen of Winslow, showing the relations of the portal vein. (Testut) with branches of the internal iliac vein, it ])asses np and out of the pelvis to the left of the inferior mesenteric artery. Above the origin of the latter it ascends, behind the peritoneum on the left side of the aorta, to the deep surface of the pancreas, where, inclining to the right, it joins the splenic vein near its termination. The Splenic Vein is a vessel of large size, v^ hicli passes from left to right below its companion artery, behind the pancreas. It commences by the imion of several large branches from the hilum of the sjjleen, and ends, after crossing in front of the aorta, by joining the superior mesenteric vein, nearly at a right angle, to form the portal vein. It receives branches corresponding to those of the artery, and, in addition, the inferior mesenteric vein. The Pyloric Vein is a small vessel which runs along the small curvature of the stomach from left to right in company with the (superior) pyloric artery. It opens into the lower part of the vena port*. The Coronary or Gastric Te/;; is a larger vessel, which accompanies the artery of the same name along the small curvature of the stomach from right to left. Near the cardiac orifice of the stomach it receives oesophageal branches and turns to the right across the spine, to end in the portal vein a little above the foregoing. The Veins of the Pelvis. The Internal Iliac Veins are short trunks without valves, which lie behind and to the inner side of the internal iliac arteries. They extend from the upper part of the great sacro-sciatic foramina to the sacro-iliac articulations, Avhere they join the external iliac to form the common iliac veins. Each is formed by the union of veins corresponding to the branches of the internal iliac artery, excepting the ilio-lumbar vein, which opens into the common iliac vein, and the foetal umbilical veins, which connect with the left branch of the portal vein. The Tributaries correspond to the branches of the ai'tery, except that the pudic vein does not begin in the dorsal vein of the penis, but in the veins of the corpus cavernosum. The visceral veins are characterized by their large size, the number of their valves, and their frequent anastomo.ses, by which several connected plexuses are formed—i. e., prostatic, vesical, vaginal, uterine, and hemorrhoidal.