EMBRYOLOGY. 98 enclosing tlie venous trunks whifh f)pcn into the sinus. By its formation the thoracic and ahdoniinal portions of the ecelom are ahiiost cdinpletclv sejtarated, the only communication between them l)eing by a pair of small eanal-like ojien- ings, one on each side of the dorsal mesentery ; and, as the lungs develop, they push the walls of the canals in front of them, these walls thus forming tlie pleurjc. At a comparatively early stage of development the pericardial portion of tlie thoracic cavity becomes separated from the pleural portions ; and considerably later the latter become cut oft' from the abdominal cavity, then known as the peritoneal cavity, by the growth forward from tlie dorsal wall of the body of a partition which unites with tlie free edge of the septum ti'ansversum. The Lymphatic Vessels, the Spleen, and the Suprarenal Capsules. Of the devel()2)ment of the fi/iiiph(itic vcssc/s comparatively little i^^ known with certainty, though they seem to be formed similarly to the blood-vessels by a hol- lowing out of strands of mesenchymatous cells. The mode of development of the spleen is also but imperfectly known : it arises as a collection of mesenchyma- tous cells situated between the layers of the dorsal mesentery of the stomach, and early receives a rich supply of blood-vesfeels. The SKprai-cnal boclicn arise as two distinct portions, one of which is derived from a collection of raesenehymatous cells in the vicinity of the inferior vena cava, and gives rise to the cortical portion of the organ ; while the other originates from the anlagen of the abdominal sympathetic ganglia and forms the medullary portion. The significance of these organs is, however, not yet understood. The Muscular System. From the mesothelial ]wrtions of the mesoderm the voluntary muscles and the urino-genital system develop. The voluntary muscles are derived from the mesodermal somites, the greater portions of which become transformed into mus- cle-tissue, and, consequently, the voluntary musculature has primarily a segmental arrangement, consisting of a series of muscle-plates placed one behind the other on each side of the Ijody, and extending forward even into the head-region of the embry o. Each plate is sujiplied by a cranial or a spinal nerve, and has the fibres of which it is composed directed longitudinally, and arising from and inserted into the connective-tissue membranes which separate each pair of plates. This jirimitive arrangement, however, is not long retained, the various muscle-plates fusing together to a greater or less extent, and dividing longitudinally and into various layers, and so producing the complicated muscular system of the adult. The involuntary muscle-tissue which occurs distributed through the walls of the various viscera seems to arise by the difierentiation of mesenchymatous cells, and to have nothing to do with the mesodermal somites. The Excretory and Reproductive Organs. The excretory and reproductive systems arise from certain of the mesodermal somites just where they join the splanchnic and somatic layers, and the first por- tion of the excretory system to ajipear arises from certain somites in the vicinity of the heart, a solid cord of cells growing out from each somite toward the ecto- derm. Each cord later becomes converted into a canal, \\liicli opens at one end into the ca'lom, and is connected at the other end with the ectoderm. This col- lection of tubules is termed tlie proyiephros (Fig. 112), and as it develops there is foi'med from the ectoderm, along the line where the tubules are in contact with it, a longitudinal canal, which later separates from the ectoderm and comes to lie close to the mesoderm (Fig. 104). This is the proDcphric or Wolffian dud, with which the tubules of the pronepliros unite, and which opens posteriorly into the urogenital sinus, to be described later.