THE TRACHEA. 757 The nasal passages, as cavities in the skull, are treated of in the chapter on osteology, as olfactory structures, in the chapter on the organs of the special I senses. The pharynx, being an alimentary as well as a respiratory organ, has already been presented as a part of the digestive tract. The larynx, which is the organ of voice, is the highly specialized upward continuation of the trachea, and its description would best be deferred until the simpler struc^tures have been con- I sidered. We now have before us an outline of the physiological anatomy of the breath- ing apparatus, and are prepared to study the structures in detail. This can most profital)ly be done by beginning with the windpipe and proceeding in an unbroken course to the air-vesicles. THYROID IMPRESSION THE TRACHEA. The trachea (so called from the Greek word for " rough," on account of the marked inequalities felt on its surface), or ivindpipe (Fig. 81G), is a straight tube, situated in the middle line of the lower and front part of the neck and the upper part of the thorax, in front of the oesophagus, extending from the lower border of the larynx downward and backward to its di- vision in the bronchi, and from the plane of the sixth cervical to that of the fourth thoracic vertebra. When the face is di- I'ected forward, the trachea is a little more than four inches in length ; but this meas- urement may be increased by the forcible extension of the neck and diminished by sharp flexion, the variation between the shortest and longest measurements exceed- ing one and a half inch. Its average transverse diameter in the cadaver is four- fifths of an inch, the antero-posterior a trifle less; but both are smaller during life on account of the activity of the mus- cular part of the pipe. It is convex and rigid in front and at the sides, flat and flex- il)le behind. The framcivorJc of tlie tracliea consists of mixed white and yellow fii)rous tissue, and strips of pure cartilage, the latter being embedded in the front and sides of the tube made by the former. The pieces of cartilage are very irregular in shape—some being of nearly uniform width from one end to the other, some bifurcating at one end, some having a branch near the middle ; l)ut their general direction is hori- zontal, and, seen from the front or side, they produce the eflFect of nearly jiarallel bands. But they are not rings, though often so called ; for they do not encircle the trachea, but always end at the border of its flat, hind surface. They vary in number from fifteen to twenty. The highest one is wide and firmly attached to the lowest cartilage of the larynx ; the lowest sends a spur downward and back- ward from its centre, between the origins of the bronchi. The fibrous mass in which the cartilages are embedded is caused by them to bulge in transverse lines, thus being produced the irregularities which give the trachea its name. Ossifica- tion of the cartilages begins at forty or fifty years of age. The flat, Jiind wall, instead of being stiffened with cartilage, is made contrac- Fk. 816.—Trachea and bronchi, front viow. (Testiit.)