778 THE URINARY SYSTEM. bore (this part containing a large nucleus), and toward the membrane they look like a mass of rods and their sides are grooved. Where the tube is not very small, the lumen occupies only about one-third of the entire diameter on account of the relative thickness of the cells. The tube is envelo])ed in a network of blood-vessels, from whose contents its cells abstract the ingredients of the urine. The vascular apj)aratns will l>e desci'ibed later on. Lobes of the Kidney.—It has been estimated tliat each kidney contains about half a million capsules, and fifteen miles of tub- ing. The disposition of this vast number of tubes is very intricate, and yet so regular as to jn'oduce practically invariable gross appearances in ditferent parts of the compound organ. In some lower animals the kidney, instead of being a single, coherent mass, consists of a munher of similar lobes, so slightly united that the appear- ance of the organ suggests a bunch of grapes. A condition a])proac]iingthis obtains in the human embryo, though the independence of the lobes is not as marked (Fig. 843). The study of the naked-eye appearances of a separate lobe is neces- sary to an understanding of the arrangement of tlie tubes. An Ideal Lobe.—Each lol)e is like a cone whose apex has been cut off, and its place sup- plied by the ajiex of a smaller cone (Fig. 844). A vertical section through the middle of this cone brings to view a cut surface in which are seen two apparently distinct kinds of material (Fig. 845). Within is a triangular portion, red and streaked with alternating dark and light lines from base to apex ; and, enclosing this, except at Fig. R43.—I\L'tal lobes. (Testut.) kidnev, showin" (F. Fig. 844.—Diagram of a lobe of the kidney. H. G.) Fig. 84.5.—Diagram of a vertical section of a lobe of the kidney. (F. H. G.) the apex, is a thick, lighter colored, granular part. The former is the medulla (" the pith "), or medullary pyramid; the latter is the cortex (" the bark "), or cortical portion. Reckoning from the base to the apex of the lobe, the cortex occupies a little more than a third of the distance. A fibrous capsule covers it, and a thin stratum of the cortex just beneath this is called the subcapsular layer. The pyramid is divided into two parts—a smaller called the papillary zone, from its including the apex (papilla), and a larger, known as the marginal, boundary, or limiting zone, this being darker and more distinctly striated. Intruding from