443 THE ARTERIES. pudic, superficial circumflex iliac, deep external pudic, profunda (deep femoral), muscular, and anastomotica magna arteries. The Superficial Circumflex Iliac is given off from the femoral just below the inguinal ( Pou])art's) litianicnt. It is a vessel of small size. It runs upward and outward in the superficial fascia to the anterior superior spine of the ilium. The Superficial Epigastric is given off immediately below the inguinal (Pou- part's) ligament, and winds up over this structure to the lymphatic nodes and superficial structures in the inguinal region. The Superficial External Pudic is given olF a little lower than the preceding, passes upward and inward, crosses the spermatic cord close to the inguinal canal, and supplies the integument in the hypogastric region and that of tlie external genitals. This artery is almost always divided in operations for hernia and for varicocele. The Deep External Pudic runs inward for some distance beneath the fascia lata to reach the perineum and external genitals, to which it is supplied. The Profunda (Fig. 477) or deep femoral, a branch of large size, is given off usually from the outer side of the femoral, two inches below the inguinal (Pou- part's) ligament. It passes downward, at first external to the femoral vessels, then behind them to the posterior surface of the adductor longus muscle, and terminates by perforating the adductor maguus muscle to reach the posterior sur- face of the thigh. The branches of the profunda are the external circumflex, the internal circum- flex, and the perforating arteries. The external circumflex is given off from the outer surface of the first portion of tlie profunda. It passes outward beneath the rectus femoris muscle to the outer aspect of the thigh, and divides into three branches, ascending, transverse, and descending. The ascending passes up to the buttock, and anastomoses with the gluteal arteries ; the transverse winds around the thigh, supplying the vastus externus, and vastus intermedins ; the descending passes downward on the outer aspect of the thigh, as far as the knee. The internal circumflex (Fig. 475) is given olf from the inner aspect of the profunda near its origin. It winds back- ward between the psoas and pectineus muscles to the lesser trochanter of the femur, near which it divides into two sets of branches, the ascending and transverse. The ascending follows the obturator externus to its insertion in the great trochanter. The transverse winds backward around the femur just below the great trochanter. The internal circtimflex gives olf also an articular branch to tlie hip-joint. The perforating arteries, three or four in number, are given ofi^ from the course of the profunda artery behind the adductor magnus ; they per- forate the adductor magnus, reach the posterior surface of the tliigh, wind around the femur in close contact with the bone, sup])ly the hamstring muscles, and terminate in the vastus externus and vastus intermedins muscles. The nutrient artery of the femur is derived from the third perforating artery. iMuscular liranches are given off from the femoral in its entire course to the contiguous muscles. The Anastomotica Magna is given off from the femoral just before its termi- nation. The artery passes downward, and divides into two branches : a super- ficial branch, which accompanies the internal saphenous nerve and vein, supplying tlie integument, and a deep branch, which passes down between the vastus inter- nus and the adductor magnus to terminate in the popliteal space. Both branches anastomose with the articular branches of the popliteal artery. The Popliteal Artery (Fig. 480) is a continuation of the femoral. It begins at the opening in the adductor magnus muscle through which the femoral passes, extends downward through the centre of the popliteal space, resting on the femtir, posterior ligament of the knee-joint and the popliteus muscle, to the lower border of the latter, where it divides into its two terminal branches, the anterior and posterior tibial.