779 THE KIDNEYS. Fig. S46.—Diagram of the structure of a lobe of the kidney. The lobe is seen In vertical section, the cortex being marliecl off from tlie medulla. Four medullary rays encroach upon the cortex. At the left is shown the course of a single, continuous series of tubes—the straight and spiral tubes appearing in the medullary ray, the straight, looped, and excretory in the medulla proper, the capsule, neck, convoluted, irregular, and arched in the cortex proper. Next is seen the labyrinth, composed of a mass of tubes in the cortex, with a medullary ray for a centre. Eqviidistant from the ray on each side is a broken red line, marking the position of an inter- lobular artery. The ]Kirt< betwcfii thcsi' lines c (institute a lobule. Farther to the right is an interlobular artery, giving"off lateral bniiii-lies (atTcrcnl vess. lsi, riicli of which ends in a tuft of capillaries, from which the blood is collected by an etl'ereiit vessel. Tlie u|iperii]i)St of the tufts is shown enclosed in a capsule. On the riglit of the iTiti-rlnl>ular artery the efferent vessels break up into a capillary network, wliich surrounds the (unropn'scntril I tubes in the cortex and ray. The lowest efferent sends vertic'il vessels also into t lie medulla. On the riglit the interlobular vein is seen gathering the blood from all tlie parts su]iplie<i by the interlobiUar artery. A branch of the renal artery courses upward between cortex and medulla, and forms an arch (here broken) over the base of the medulla. From it the interlobular arteries pass upward into the cortex, and straight branches go downward into the mednlla, supplying its structure, and ending at the apex in the capil- laries. From the last the radicles of the renal vein arise, and accompany the straight arteries to the base of the medulla, where a venous arch is formed, continnons with which is the vena comes of the enteringarterj;. The calyx embraces the apex of the medullary pyramid. It is lined with epithelium, which continues from it over the apex, the latter lieing perforated witli the many apertures of excretory tubes.