THE REGION OF THE THIRD VENTRICLE. 531 blood bv the anterior, middle, and j^osterior cerebral arteries, ■which have been described in a previous chapter. It is only necessary here to refer to that account f(ir details of course and distribution, and to call attention to Figs. 583-585, which show most impressively the regions to which each of these vessels furnishes nourishment. THE REGION OF THE THIRD VENTRICLE—THE THALAMEN- CEPHALON. The third ventricle comprises the parts developed from the second encephalic vesicle and, in addition, the aula of the first vesicle—the latter constituting the front and upper portion, as has been related in the early part of this chapter. The third ventricle (Figs. 586-588) is a narrow, deep, median crevice, on a plane distinctly below that of the body of the lateral ventricle. It opens at its Fig. 586.—Coronal section of the hemispheres through the middle commissure, M. C. C. N., caudate nu- cleus in the roof of the middle horn of the right lateral ventricle. (Testut.) upper, outer and front angles into the portse (foramina of Monro), by which com- munication is established with the lateral ventricles ; and high up on its hind wall it is continuous with the aqueduct. Its lateral boundaries are made by the thalami; its roof is furnished by the median part of the velum interpositum ; it is bounded in front by the anterior pillars of the fornix and the lamina cinerea ; behind are the epijjhysis (pineal gland), the posterior commissure, and the aperture of the aqueduct; its floor, reckoning from behind forward, is made by the tegmenta of the crura cerebri, the posterior perforated sjjace, the corpora albicantia, and the tuber cinereum with the infundilnilum and hypophysis (])itu- itary body) ; crossing it from side to side is the middle commissure ; and hanging down into it from the roof are the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle. As the thalamencephalon is intimately connected with the mesencephalon, it is necessary to present a brief description of the latter at this stage of our study. The mesencephalon is the istJimvn between the hisrher and lower parts of the brain. It is perforated from end to end by the aqueduct. In front of tliis passage are the cntra ceretjri ("legs of the cerebrum "), two great columns which are diverging, upwai'd continuations of the white substance from the pons and cerebellum. The ventral part of each crus is called cnista, the dorsal part tegmentum. Behind the aqueduct the material is arranged in four distinct knobs, the corpora quadrigemina.