148 THE BONES. The Ischium. The ischium (" hip "), situated dorso-inferiorly, forms superiorly the dorsal and lower two-fifths of the acetabulum and nearly all of its non-articular base ; and below it terminates in the tuberosifi/. This is the thickest part of the bone, upon which the body rests in sitting, and from which the ramus ("branch") ascends to join that of the os pubis to assist in bounding the obturator foramen. The trian- gular upper ])art, or bodt/, presents externally, between the acetabular rim and the tuberosity, a groove for the upper border of the obturator externus. Internally it and the tuberosity form a flattened surface, which bcninds tlie true pelvis laterally, and from which the obturator internus arises. Its dorso-internal border completes the great sacro-sciatic notch, which is limited below l)y the prominent spine of the ischium. To the sjiine the small sciatic ligament is attached behind, the coccygeus and levator ani internally, and the gemellus superior dorso-externally, where the spine is crossed by the internal pudic vessels and nerve. The cartilage-clad small sciatic notch, over which the obturator internus glides, separates the spine from the tuberosity below. The tuberosity presents behind a rough quadrate surface, from Fig. 167.—The right hip-bone, inner surface. (Testut.) the upper and outer portion of which the semi-membranosus arises, and from the lower and inner part the semi-tendinosus and biceps. This area is separated by a transverse ridge from a pyriform, rough surface in front of it, which is con- tinuous with the lower border of the ramus and attaches the adductor magnus. The sharp inner lip of the tuberosity attaches the falciform prolongation of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, and from the outer lip the quadratus femoris arises. The ramus, flattened like the descending ramus of the os pubis, with which it is continuous, presents a thin upper margin bounding the obturator foramen, and a thicker, everted, lower margin for ligamentous and muscular attachment. From its outer surface the obturator externus and adductor magnus arise, and from its inner surface arise the obturator internus, crus penis, erector penis, and, dorsally, the transversus perinei.