540 THE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. tegmeiitum is convex, and slopes downward and forward, forniini; a jyart of tlie floor of the third ventricle. Upon this snrface is extended the forward continua- tion of the gray of tiie aqueduct. The locus niger can be traced backwartl to the upper margin of the pons, and forward to the corpora albicantia. The white around the I'ed nucleus is an extension of the greater part of the superior cere- bellar peduncle of the opposite side—decussation taking place across the middle line in the raphe. As a whole the white of the crura is a continuation of bundles from the internal capsule and subthalamic region. THE EPENCEPHALON. This segment of the brain comprises the parts developed from the fourth encephalic vesicle, namely, the pons and the cei'ebellum. The Pons. The pons, otherwise called pons Varord (" bridge of Varolius ") and tuber annu- lare (" annular ]M'otul)erance "), consists largely of white nervous tissue, the greater part of which is divided into two groups of bundles, according to the direction in which they run (Figs. 687, 596). One set courses nearly vertically from the mesen- cephalon to the oblongata, occupying the central portion of the pons; the other, mainly superficial to this, is disposed horizon- tally, and is seen at the front and sides, pro- jecting beyond the surface plane of the crura and the oblongata. The horizontal part gives the name to the whole, because it suggests the arch of a bridge connecting the lateral halves of the cerebellum. The ventral por- tion of the arch has the greatest vertical diameter, and the sides taper as they go dorsally, being smallest Avhere they enter the cerebellum, constituting the middle peduncles of this organ. By removing the cerebellum, a view is obtained of the dorsal aspect of the pons I x/ <MnpiST CERVICAL (Fig. 5!)7). Ou cach side is seen a sujierior ■ 1 '^^^^^^""^ peduncle of the cerebellum, running down- ward and outward from the quadrigemina. Fig. 596.—Ventral view of mesencephalon, -r, . ,i , ^• • pons, and oblongata. (Testut.) Jietwecn these two diverging mas.ses is stretched a flat, triangular jjlate, consisting of two layers of nervous tissue, the ventral being white, the dorsal gray. This structure is variously called the rahnda, the valve of Vieussens, and the ante- rior medullary velum. It forms the upper part of the dorsal wall or roof of the fourth ventricle. Cutting away the valvula, we look into the fourth ventricle, and see the upper portion of its ventral wall or floor, overlapped at its sides by the mesial borders of the superior cerebellar peduncles. In the entire middle line of this triangular area is a groove, close to which and to the fiblongata is a rounded jirojection, the eminentia teres ("the round eminence"). Beside this is a shallow depression, foi-ea mperior ihe upper little pit"), and above the latter a deeply pigmented area, the locus ccruleus ("the blue place"). A cross-section of the upper portion of the pons shows that the bulk of its ventral and larger part is composed of transverse bundles, with which are intermingled those which run longitudinally. The dorsal and 'smaller por- tion has a reticular formation iu the centre, behind which is a thin layer of gray tissue, and in front of it a part of the fillet or lemniscus—a structure which will CORPUS ALBICANS