PRACTICAL ANATOMY. 884 the thorax or alidomen and tlie table, assist greatly in this matter. Nerves may be made taut hy the use t)f the hooks and chains. Further Directions.—The under surface of a muscle should always be examined carefully to observe the arteries, veins, nerves, and deep attachments. Every tendon should be followed to its attachment. In cutting through a muscle in order to remove or reflect it, care must be taken not to injure a subjacent part. If a muscle is to be reflected, it should, as a rule, be divided in the middle. When a group of muscles is to be reflected, each should be cut at a different level from the others, as replacement can thus be accomplished more readily and accurately. Handle parts delicately. Rough manipulation hurts them, especially the bellies of muscles. Forceps tear muscular fibres, and leave a ragged surface ; fingers injure them very little, and should always be used, when practicable. Do not finally remove any part until obliged to do so in order to reach under- lying structures. By keeping parts attached a long time, opportunity is afforded for many repeated examinations. Prevention of Drying.—Every part should be kept a little moist (but not soaked) with some antiseptic liquid. One can learn something, perhaps a good deal, from a decaying organ ; nothing from a part which has been allowed to dry. One of the best preparations for this purpose is composed as follows : Alcohol 30 per cent., glvcerine 10, carbolic acid 2, and water 68. Clearing up after Work.—After the day's dissecting is done, the dissected organs should be slightly moistened with the above fluid, and adjusted as nearly as possible in their natural relations; the edges of the skin should be fastened with a continuous suture ; and the whole wrapped in cotton cloth which has been wetted with the same solution. Finally, it is desirable that the entire subject should be covered with a sheet of rubber cloth. If care is taken along these lines, a dissection may be continued a number of weeks without discomfort or offence. Tiie skin of a part should be saved until the dissection is completed, because it is the best covering. The original incisions should be so made as to leave large flaps of skin, as these are more easily managed. Disposal of Waste.—As regards the disposal of waste materials : all fluids from the subject should be turned into the waste-pipe connected with the sewer; small fragments should be deposited upon a piece of paper, and the collection from each day's work placed in a box provided for the purpose, which should also receive the large masses, as they are removed ; and the box should be buried at the close of the dissecting season, or as soon as it is filled, if that be earlier. Care of the Hands.—Chaps or abrasions on the hands of the dissector should be protected by small bits of court-plaster, over and around which a coating of flexible collodion is applied. When the hands are to be brought exten- sively in contact with the viscera, it is well to anoint them with vaseline or some other oil. Treatment of a Dissection Wound.—If a wound is received from a dissecting instrument or a spicule of bone, it should be encouraged to bleed by holding it in the stream from the hot water faucet, and then sucking it vigorously, so that the poison may be removed before it has a chance to be absorbed. The danger of infection from the dissection material usually provided in our schools is very small, if reasonable precautions are observed. Cleanliness of Clothing.—In preparation for dissection the student should either clothe himself in an old suit, which thereafter will be used for no other purpose, or else cover his ordinary raiment with a dissecting gown, which reaches nearly to his feet and is gathered in at the wrists. If consideration for his own cleanliness and comfort is not sufficient to suggest some such procedure, a decent regard for the rights of others will forbid his mingling with people of common