41 THE EPITHELIAL TISSUES. CLASSES OF TISSUES. I. Tissues furnishing- the free surfiees of the Ixxly : Epithelial Tissues. > II. Tissues passively supporting other parts : Sustentacular Tissues. III. Tissues performing a nutritive function : Liquid Tissues. IV. Tissues devoted to movement: Muscular Tissues. V. Tissues essential to sensation : Nervous Tissues. THE EPITHELIAL TISSUES. Tissues furnishing the Free Surfaces of the Body. There is a peculiar propriety in speaking of this class first, as it is composed -entirely of cells, and also because the male and female cells, by whose union every human being is created, are, to all intents and purposes, epithelial cells. On every surface which is free, as distinguished from attached, are found multitudes of cells, and with liardly an exception the surfaces are covered with them or, more properly speaking, completely composed of them. Thus, the top layer of the skin is made wholly of cells ; so also is the exposed surface of every cavity, tube, or passage which connects directly or indirectly with the skin ; as, for example, the alimentary canal from mouth to anus, all of the air-passages, the urinary organs, the generative ways ; the surface of cavities which are entirely closed, which cannot be reached without dissection, such as the pleura, the heart, the blood-vessels ; and others which need not now be enumerated. These cells, thus spread out in close contact with each other, are epithelial cells, and the sheet of tissue which they form is an epithelium. Etymology does not suggest the character of the tissue, the extent of its distribution, its uses, or any other valuable fact about it, the word being derived from the Greek words signifying " upon the nipple." It is best, therefore, to employ it in a perfectly arbitrary way. Many groups of these cells—indeed, all of those which limit the surfaces of shut sacs, shut tubes, and other cavities which are not directly or indirectly continuous with the skin—are called endothelial, and the sheet of tissue which is formed by them is named an emlothelium, the derivation giving it the meaning of "within the nipple"—a term which has not even the minute justi- fication to be accorded to " epithelium ;" for there is epithelium upon the nipple, but there is no endothelium within it, except as there is in every part which con- tains blood- and lymph-vessels. As Macalister most pertinently says, " The dis- tinction between endothelium and epithelium is not always either histologically certain or functionally possible, nor can its development be relied on as a crite- rion." It would be well if the attempt to keep up the distinction were abandoned; but, as some writers still employ the term endothelium, it is well to understand that they refer to a cellular tissue which develops from what will presently be described as connective tissue. In this book all such will be included under the head of epithelium. Originally all epithelial cells are nucleated : in most of them the nucleus can be demonstrated at any stage of their existence ; but in some it becomes oblit- erated, usually as the result of jiressure or exposure to tlie drying elfects of the air. The cells almost literally constitute the entire tissue, the intercellular substance being reduced to its lowest terms, and consisting of a minute quantity of a semi- fluid, adhesive material called the interstitial cement-substance, which glues the cells together. Usually an epithelium rests upon a transparent, structureless sheet of extreme thinness, rather difficult of demonstration, the )iicmbrana propria or basement mem- brane. Though called structureless, it is shown to be made up of flattened plates •of typical connective tissue, which will be treated of a little later. An epithelium contains no blood-vessels and a very, diminutive supply of