THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 728 a horizontal cleft, like a button-hole, between them (Fig. 784). The permanency of the lips is maintained by the shortness of tlie outer muscular layer. The ileum enters tlie large intestine obliquely from below ; and thus, when there is an accumu- lation of feces in the caecum, the two lips will be pressed together, and regurgita- tion prevented ; but there is nothing in the conformation of the valve to interfere with the ])assage of material in the other direction. From each commissure of the lips extends a ridge, which, after going part way round the bowel, shades off into the general surface. Upon that aspect of these lijis which is contributed by the small intestine are villi; that which is furnished by the large intestine is devoid of them. The Appendix. Springing from the rear of the etecum toward its inner aspect is a blind tube, about as thick as an ordinary lead-pencil, and varying from three to six (or even more) inches in length, called the appemllr veriniforwh cax-l (" the worm-like appendage of the blind gut") (Fig. 785). It has a me- sentery for about half its length ; its serous, muscular, and areolar coats are similar to those of the small intestine; its mucous coat has intestinal glands, and so many so-called soli- tary glands as to constitute a nearly complete layer in and just beneath the mucosa. Its attitude varies enormously : it may stand up behind the colon, hang down behind the cfecuni, lie forward toward the surface of the belly, curve to the outside, or twine around the ileum. Its development is pecidiar. The cfecum is relatively much longer in the foetal than in the adult condition. At birth it is a long cone, hardly suggesting the shape which it finally assumes. The portion nearest the colon grows and develojxs eciually ^v•ith the latter; but the remainder ceases to develoji, and, being vastly outgrown and overshadowed by the upper por- tion, becomes an appendage to what was originally the smaller jiart of the blind gut. We see, therefore, that this Avorm-like organ has I'eached its present condition as the result of ai-rested development, and not of degeneration. The three rihl)ons of muscle pi'cviously described begin at the attached end of the appendix. One runs up close behind the ileo-ca;cal junction ; another curves downward, inward, and then upward on the front; and the third turns downAvard, outward, and then upward. From their position they are called respectively postero-internal, anterior, and postero-external. The appendix would be at the lowest extremity of the csecum, in the adult as it is in the ffjetal condition, but for the bulging of the front part of the latter downward, and especially outward, a change which In'ings the opening of the appendix behind and toward the middle line of the body. Tlie Cfecum has a complete investment of serous membrane, but it has no mesentery. Fig. 78-").—Tlio c;i-c'uin, ilorso-mesial view, showing the ileura-side of the ileo-csecal valve, and the beginning of tlie three mus- cular ribbons. (Testut.) THE COLON. The colon com])rises all but a mere span of the large intestine. It diminishes in size gradually from its beginning to its end. It presents four well-marked