807 THE VA^ DEFERENS. pr(.)jection of about the same size, is seated either on the front of the globus major, the upper extremity of the testicle, or between the two. It is nearly always present, is sometimes divided into several lobes, and contains in its centre a tui)ular cavity or canal, which either ends in blind extremities or becomes continuous with a seminiferous canal. Morphologically, this body represents the peritoneal end of the duct of Miiller, and is, thei'efore, homologous with the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube in the female. Sometimes, indeed, it may be found as an empty orifice with fringed borders. The organ of Giraldes or parddidymis ("beside the testicle"), a small, irregular, yellowish-white patch, which lies in front of the cord, immediately above tlie head of the epididymis and beneath the funicular portion of the tunica vaginalis, is made up of several small nodules, each containing a blind convoluted tube, lined with cylindrical, ciliated epithelium. It is a relic of the inferior portion of the Wolffian body. THE VAS DEFERENS. The vas deferens ("vessel carrying away") (Figs. 874, 875) is the prolonga- tion of the canal of the epididymis, and extends from the tail of the latter to the base of the prostate gland. It varies in length from six- teen to twenty inches, is cylin- drical in outline throughout the greater part of its course, and has an average diameter of about one-tentli of an inch. The vas travels upward in the spermatic cord, and may be divided into four portions as follows: (1) testicular; (2) funicular ; (3) inguinal; (4) abdomino-pelvic. Direction and Relations.— The testicular jjortion, mark- edly tortuous, runs from its origin upward and a little forward, to about the middle of the testicle. It lies to the inner side of the epididymis and l)ehind the testicle, and is separated from both by the spermatic vessels and nerves. The funicular portion is straight, and is continued vertically upward to the ex- ternal alxlominal ring, lying behind. (Xestut.) behind the spermatic artery, nerves, and anterior group of veins, but in front of the posterior veins. The inr/uiiial portion occupies the inguinal canal. The abdomino-pelvic divisio7i is, in the greater part of its course, retro-peritoneal. At the internal abdominal ring it leaves the sjjermatic vessels and turns inward, curving around the outer side of the deep epigastric artery. Crossing the external iliac vessels on their inner side, it then enters the pelvis close to the ilio-pubic suture, and curves downward and backward on the lateral wall of the bladder, crossing in this part of its course obliquely and to the vesical side of the obliterated hypogastric artery and the ureter. The terminal segment of this division, about two inches in length, runs forward between the bladder and the rectum. It is dilated, flattened from