THE BONES. 120 ill the lumbar, 1)1" the reverse. Whether the extra vertebra be thoracic or lumbar, the characters of this vertebra are more those of tlie lumbar type. Or, again, the number of movable vertebrse may be increased or decreased by one, causing an increase or decrease of one in the thoracic or lumbar group. This increase is usually in the lumbar series, the lower one of which may be partly united to the sacrum. Table showing the Characters of the Typical Vertebrce of Each Group. Cervical. Bodies : Pedicles • Lamina?: Spinous pro- cesses : Transverse pro- cesses : Costal process: Superior articu- lar processes: Inferior articu- lar processes: Spinal foramen: Small, transversely elon- gated. Sloped downward and forward. Lipped lat- erally. No costal facets. Pass outward and back- ward. Notches above and below nearly equal. Long, slender, flattened. Short, strong, bifid, and nearly horizontal. Short, slender, directed outward and forward. Slender, flat, ossified to the vertebra and transverse process. Flat. Directed upward and slightly backward. Flat. Directed downward and slightly forward. Large, triangular, wide. Thoracic. Heart-shaped. Deeper be- hind. Nearly equal transversely and antero- posteriorly. Costal facets. Pass backward. Inferior notches deeper than supe- rior. Broad, short, imbricated. Long, projecting downward and overlapping. Long, strong. Project out- ward and Isackward. Ar- ticulate with tubercles of ribs. A separate bone (/. e. a rib). Flat. Directed backward and slightly outward. Flat, Directed forward and slightly inward. Smaller, circular. Lumbar. Large, elongated trans- versely. No costal facets. Pass backward and slightly outward. Inferior notches deep. Short, deep, and thick. Quadrate, horizontal ; of medium length. Rudimentary, as "acces- sory process." Ossified to vertebra. Flat, thin, "transverse pro- cess.' ' Slightly concave. Directed inward and slightly back- ward. Slightly convex. Directed outward and slightly for- ward. Larger than in the thoracic. Triangular, wide. The one distinguishing feature of a cervical vertebra is the costo-transverse foramen ; of a thoracic vertebra, the articular facet or demi-facet on the body; and of a lumbar, the absence of both of these peculiarities. THE SACRAL VERTEBRA. These in early life present the elements of live distinct vertebrse, but in the adult they are united into a curved triangular bone, the os sacrum, so called from its use in sacrifice (Figs. 141-143). It articulates laterally with the two hip- bones of the pelvic girdle, and, with the coccyx, completes the pelvis behind and above. In the erect ])ositi()n the sacrum lies obli([uely, its upper surface or base inclined well forward. The sacral vertebrse decrease in size from above downward, thus giving a triangular shape, with a base, apex, venti'al, dorsal, and lateral surfaces. Its separate elements present most, if not all, of the component parts of the movable vertebne ; and the different parts of the sacrum are best understood when studied with reference to these parts. The base of the sacrum, or the ii])per surface of the first sacral vertebra, resembles that of a lumbar vertebra. The large, transversely oval upper surface of the body extends forward to meet the ventral surface at the proniovfon/ of the sacrum which forms the dorsal boundary of the i)elvic brim. Its superior articular processes, widely separated, look backward and inward like the lumbar, and have Avell-marked mammillary processes. The foratneii is triangular. On the sides of the body we see the smooth ake, or wings, on the upper surface of the lateral masses, which are formed by the fusion of the transverse and costal processes on either side. The alse are continuous with the iliac fossae on each side.