60 ELEMENT A R Y TISS UES. from one end of the fibril to the otlicr. Or, to put it in a different way, a fibril looks like a fine thread, upon which are strung large, spindle-shaped beads and small, round beads, regularly alternating, and leaving a little of the thread ex- posed between each bead and its two neighl)ors. These fibrils do not touch eaoli other, l)ut between them, and also separating them from the sarcolemma, is a thin (probably fiuid) substance, called mrcuplutsin. The fibrils are the contractile por- FiG. 52.—Part of a fibre of (.'ross-striped muscular tissue, shovviiiff the alternating bands. Fig. 53.—l>ias.'raiii slKiwingtho minute struc- ture of cross-striped muscular tissue. (F. H. G.) tion of the fil)re, and, when they contract, their spindles and beads shorten in the line of the long axis of the fibre, and swell out in the lateral direction. This causes a displacement of the sarcoplasm, which, consequently, pushes out the sarcolemma, and thus produces regularly placed protrusions along the surface of the fibre. If the diagram is viewed at a distance (as across the room), which will obscure some of its details, the effect is very like that produced by the examination of a fibre of muscle with a microscope of mod- PiG. 54.—Fragment of a fibre of cross-striped muscular tissue, show- ing fibrils separated at one end by teasing. Fig. 55.—Fragment of a fibre of cross-striped muscular tis- sue, hardened, showing trans- verse cleavage. (KoUilver.) Fiii. 'n.—Transverse section of muscle-tibre, showing nuclei. (Tes- tut.) erate power—faint, longitudinal lines and broad, transverse stripes, the latter sep- arated by light intervals, which are ci'ossed from side to side by a thin, dark streak. The spindle portion of the fibril is called a sarcous element; the round beads in a single transverse plane constitute what is known as Kraii>^e'f< membrane. In the teasing of a bit of muscular tissue with needles, it happens that many fibres are torn, and the broken ends of the fragments sometimes are frayed out