154 THE BONES. cally tlie inner is the lower. (3n the lateral surface of each condyle the cor- responcUno; lateral ligament of the knee-joint is attached to a rough tiibcrositij. Below the outer tuberosity the poplitcus arises from a depression, from which a groove passing backward and upward is occupied by the tendon of the muscle in flexion of the knee. To the mesial surfaces bounding the intercondylar notch the crucial ligaments are attached, the anterior to the external condyle behind, the posterior to the internal condyle in front. Immediately above and behind con- dyles the two heads of the gastrocnemius muscle arise, and above its outer head is the origin of tlie jdantaris. The great trochanter, the two condyles, and, during flexion, the trochlear surface for the patella, are the only subcutaneous parts of the bone. The great trochanter is an important landmark. The femur averages 18 inches in length in the European male, and 17 inches iu the female. It is inclined inward at an angle of about 9° with the sagittal plane in the male, and at a greater angle in the female. Tlie femur presents an angle of toi'sion between the upper and lower extremities, but in the opposite direction to that of the humerus, and ranging between 5° and 20°. The lamelke of the cancellous tissue at the upper extremity are arranged in arches, which cross one another and strengthen the neck of the bone, through which the weight of the body is transmitted from the head to the shaft. A nearly vertical plane of com- pact bone (calcar femorale, " femoral spur ") projects into the interior, toward the great trochanter, from a little in front of the small trochanter, and strengthens the concave side of the neck. It is liable to absorption in old age. The de- pression for the ligameutum teres is wanting in a small proportion of eases, and in a still smaller number is replaced by a tubercle. The gluteal ridge is some- times so prominent as to be called the third trochanter. Ossification occurs in the shaft from one centre, which ajipears very early. The lower epiphysis appears as a single centre. One after another centre appears for the head, great and small trochanters. These join the shaft as follows : small i trochanter, seventeenth year ; great trochanter, eighteenth year ; head, nineteenth ! year ; condyles, twentieth to twenty-first year. The neck is an outgrowth from the shaft. The line of fusion of the condylar epiphysis with the shaft is below ! the adductor tubercle and the origins of tlie gastrocnemius muscle. i t THE PATELLA. The patella {" little dish "), or knee-pan {¥\gs. 173, 174), is a flattened, triangu- lar sesamoid bone in the quadriceps extensor tendon at the front of the knee-joint., APEX APEX Fig. 173.—The right patella, ventral surface. Fig. 174.—The right patella, dorsal surface. (Testut.) (Testut.) Its slightly ccmvex ventral surface is longitudinally striated for the fibrous expan- sion of the tendon. Its dorsal surface is mostly cartilage-clad to articulate with the trochlear surface of the femur, and is divided by a vertical ridge into a largeij outer, concave portion and a smaller inner, convex one, to articulate with th(i