790 THE URINARY SYSTEM. a gentle curve which is concave forward, and the tliird portion has a curve (so sharj) as to be ahnost an angle) about midway of its length (Fig. 860). This second curve is obliterated when the body of th(> penis is raised, as in the intro- duction of an instrument to the bladder through the urethra, and also durinir erection. The ]iart of the urethra between this curve and the l)ladder is called Fig. 860,—Proximal portions of urethra witli surrounding parts. (After Testut.) the fixed portion ; but it is ])racticable for a skilled hand to pass a straight instru- ment into the bladder without injuring the tube or its surroundings. The bore of tJie urdhra varies in size and shape in different parts (Fig. 861). The prostatic j^ortion has the largest calibre, measuring one-third of an inch half way of its course, and a little less at its extremities. It is also the most dis- tensible segment. In its hind surface (the floor) is an elevation Avhich rises gradually from behind and then descends more abruptly (Fig. 862). This is called by various names—vemmontmmm, " a mountain spit," caput galUnaginis, "the cock's head," eoJIiodus semlnalis, "the little seminal hill." Fnmi the sum- mit of this ridge a little tubular cavity runs upward and backward for about half an inch, called uterus masrnUints, " the male womb," because it is the homologue of the uterus of the female. It is also called sinus poc»for/s. " the cuplike hol- low," and ves'u'ula jwostatica, " the prostatic vesicle." Upon its lateral lips open the two ejaculatory ducts, through which the semen is squirted into the urethra. On each side of this mound is a groove, the prostatic sinus, into which open the most and the largest of the ducts from the glandular masses of the jn'ostate, the smaller ducts opening in the sides and roof (front surface) of the tube. The jjresence of the crest causes a transverse section of the urethra to look like an inverted U. The membranous portion has a diameter of one-fifth inch or less, which is also that of the meatus externus. The latter is the least dilatable part, and, consequently, an instrument which will pass the meatus will go through every other portion of the canal. Where the membranous urethra perfoi'ates the rigid triangular ligament it is not as readily dilated as elsewhere. The spongy urethra has a calilire between the other portions in size, and uniform except at its extremities. In front for about half an iuch it is dilated and thus forms the fossa iiavieidaris, "the boat-shajied pit," and behind for nearly an inch it M'idens in every direction, making the jx// .s' hu/hosa, " the Inilbous part." The lowest point of the membranous urethra is about one inch beneath the pubic arch. The upper part of this portion is in close relation to the rectum.