THE MUSCLES. 298 flfxion, and outward rotation of tliigh. Nerves, the anterior crural and the obtu- rator. Obturator Externus (Figs. 335, 342).—" The outer obturator muscle," so called from its origin. Hituntiov, between the obturator region on the outer surface of the pelvis and the digital fossa of the femur, behind and beneath the hip-joint. Origin, the inner half of tlie outer surface of the obturator membrane, the adjoin- ing surfaces of the pubic body, and the pubic and ischial rami. Direction, outward, then backward and upward, close to the under and hind surfaces of the cervix feraoris. Insertion, the bottom of the digital fossa. Aetian, outward rotation, adduction, and flexion of thigh. Nerve, the obturator. Quadratus Femoris (Figs. 331, 333, 343).—" The square muscle of the thigh." Situation, between the tuber ischii and the upper part of the shaft of the femur. Fig. 343.—Quadratus femoris of right side: outline and attachment-areas. (F. H. G.) Origin, the outer border of the tuberosity of the ischium. Direction, outward. Insertion, the quadrate tubercle and the surface just below it. Action, external rotation and adduction of thigh. Nerve, from the sacral plexus. Pyriformis (Figs. 344, 345).—"The pear-shaped muscle." Situation, between the front of the hind wall of the true pelvis and the upper end of the thigh. Orif/in, the ventral surface of the second, third, and fourth pieces of the sacrum, between and outside of the anterior foramina and the hind border of the ilium below the inferior spine. Direction, nearly horizontally outward by the great sacro-sciatic foramen. Insertion, the front of the upper border of the great tro- chanter. Action, when the femur is extended, external rotation ; when it is Hexed, abduction. Nerve, from the sacral plexus. The obturator internus and the two gemelli are so intimately related that it would be rational to consider them as a single muscle ; but, as they are always treated as separate organs, the conventional rule is here observed. Gemellus Superior (Fig. 344).—" The upper little twin muscle." Situation, above the tendon of the obturator internus. Origin, the spine of the ischium. Direction, outward. Insertion, the front of the inner surface of the great tro-