THE BONES. 176 of the malleus. More internally it presents the canal of Huguicr, by which the chorda tympani nerve issues. Articulations.—The temporal bone articulates above with the jiarietal, in front with the sphenoid and malar, below with the mandible, l)eliind and inter- nally with the occipital. Ossification.—The squamosal and tynijianic lioncs ossify in membrane, each from a single centre ; the petrous portion and styloid process in cartilage, the former from four centres, the latter from two. The foetal tympanic bone forms an incom- plete ring, which encloses the tympanic membrane. It is open above with its free ends united to the squamosal. Two tubercles growing from the front and back of this ring meet in the floor of the meatus, enclosing a foramen, which is gradually (though not always) closed, and thus the tympanic plate is formed. At birth the mastoid process, articular eminence, and tympanic ring are flat, the glenoid fossa is shallow, and the hiatus Fallopii opens at the genu of the canal. THE SPHENOID BONE. The sphenoid or tredf/e-bone (Figs. 196-198) forms a part of all three fossae of the base of the skull and of the orbits and nasal fossae. It is very irregular Fii.;. VXk—The sphenoid bone, viewed from aliove. (Testut.) in shape, and consists of a body, two pairs of wings, and a pair of pterygoid i processes. Body.—The central cuboidal part or body presents a superior surface, which in its hind part, in the posterior cranial fossa, continues the basilar groove of the i occipital and slants ujiward and forward to a quadrilateral projecting plate, the j dorsiiriii sclliv (" back of the saddle"). The upper angles of the latter project oiit^ [ ward as the posterior clinoid (" bed-like ") processes, attaching the tentorium cere- ; belli. It overhangs a deep {\t'\m'!^swn,i\\Q pituiteiry fossa or sella turcica (" Turk- . ish saddle"), which lodges the pituitary body and forms the isthmus or narrow , median portion of the middle cranial fossa. This depression is bounded in front by a transverse elevation, the olivary eminence, behind which on each side projects , a small tubercle, the middle clinoid process. In front of the eminence the slight optic groove supports the optic commissure, and leads laterally to the optic foraniina. The surface in front of this is on a slightly higher level, and forms part of the floor of the anterior cranial fossa. It ends in front in a projecticm, the ethmoidal spine, for articulation with the cribriform jilatc of the ethmoid, and laterally it is i continuous with the superior surfaces of the small wings. Each lateral margin of j this surface is bevelled by the winding cavernous groove, which lodges the inter- nal carotid artery in its forward passage and the cavernous sinus. The hind end i