415 THE ARTERIES. supply the ])ectoralis major and minor muscles. The acromio-thoraeic artery arises from the first portion of the axillary ; it breaks up into three sets of branches : one passes outward to the acromion, the second passes down the arm with the cephalic vein, and the third supplies the pectoi'al and the serratus magnus muscles. The long thoracic artery arises from the second portion of the axillary, passes downward along the outer border of the pectoralis minor, and sends branches to the serratus magnus, the pectorales major and minor, and the mam- mary gland. The alar thoracic, arising from the second portion, consists either of a single branch or a number of small branches, distributed to the lymphatic glands, the fat and the areolar tissue of the axilla. The subscapular artery is a large branch which arises from the third portion of the axillary. It passes down- ward on the subscapularis muscle, and, at about the centre of the axillary border of the scapula, it gives off a large branch, the dorsalis scapuke artery, Avhich winds into the infraspinatus muscle, and anastomoses with the suprascapular and posterior scapular arteries. The rest of the artery passes downward on the chest wall, and is distributed to the muscles in this region—the subscapularis, the sei'ratus magnus, the latissimus, and the teres major. The posterior circumflex is larger than the anterior. It arises from the third portion of the axillary, and winds backward between the teres muscles, and between the humerus and long head of the triceps. It accompanies the circumflex nerve, and supplies the deltoid and other structures about the shoulder-joint. The anterior circumflex arises from the third portion of the axillary artery. It passes forward in front of the humerus, is covered by the coraco-brachialis and the tendon of the biceps, sends branches to the shoulder-joint, and anastomoses with the posterior circumflex artery. THE AXILLARY SPACE. At this stage the student is advised to draw the axillary space, its boundaries, and the arteries contained in it. Later, as the subjects of the veins, lymphatics, and nerves are mastered, these should be added to the sketch. The Axillary Space is one of much practical importance, for it is often invaded by the surgeon in operative work, such as clearing the axilla in con- nection with the removal of carcinoma of the mammary gland. This operation practically amounts to a dissecting of the axilla and demands a thorough knowl- edge of the anatomy of the part. The axilla or arm-pit is the wedge-shaped space between the inner surface of the arm and the side of the chest. It presents for examination as boundaries anterior, posterior, internal, and external walls, a base and an apex. The anterior wall is formed by the pectoral muscles ; the posterior wall by the latissimus, the teres major, and the subscapularis muscles ; the inner zvall by the ujiper four ribs and intercostal spaces, covered by the serratus magnus muscle ; and the outer tvall by the humerus, covered by the coraco-brachialis muscle and the biceps tendons. The apex corresponds to the small area above the first rib from which the brachial plexus, and the axillary artery and vein emerge. The base is formed by the integument and fascia which stretch across the arm-])it from the pectoralis major to the latissimus dorsi. The arterial contents are the axillary artery and its branches. In addition the space contains the accompanying veins, the brachial plexus of nerves, the axillary lymphatic nodes and vessels, and con- siderable fat and areolar tissue. The position of these structures in the space and their relations to each other should be carefully studied. THE BRACHIAL ARTERY (Fig. 459). The brachial artery, the continuation of the axillary, begins at the outer border of the axillary space. It passes down the inner aspect of the arm, covered by the deep fascia, and lying on the inner border of the coraco-brachialis and biceps mus- cles ; it terminates in the forearm about half an inch below the bend of the elbow