717 THE SMALL INTESTINE. stitute a thick, circular sphincter, called the pyJoruH ("gate-keeper"), the side t()wai"d the stomach sloping, and that toward the bowel being abrupt. The aper- ture is the pi/lorie orifice (Fig. 766). The Areolar Coat, called also submucous and vascular, is loose, and its meshes are largely occupied with the vessels and nerves going to and from the coats between which it lies. The Mucous Membrane is thrown into irregtdar, longitudinal folds (/'»//«') wJien the organ is flaccid, but l)ecomcs smootli during distension. Its co'rium is mostly occupied by tubular glands, between which is tibrous tissue, containing cajiillaries and nerves ; and beneath these structures is a niuscularis mucosa;, which sends some of its fibres up between these follicles. The surface epithelium consists of a single layer of columnar cells, many of which are goblet. The glands are all tubular depressions of tlie surface, and their length is l)ut a trifle less than the thickness of the membrane. They are of two varieties, one, the cfirdiae glands or proper gastric glands, being found in the large end and middle third of the stomach ; and the other, the pyhrie f/hoult, in the region of the small end. They are arranged in little groups, which are bounded by minute elevations of the surface. The cardiac glands (Fig. 767) are simple tubular depressions, consisting of a duct, neck, and fundus or body. The duct is short, has a wide mouth, and is lined with columnar epithelium, a continuation of that u])on the general, free surface. Its cells overlap one another a little. In the neck the cells become short and broad. The fundus is wavy or spiral, and is furnished with two kinds of cells : the centr(d, rather conoidal, and more numerous ; the pcwictal, larger, usually not reaching the SURFACE OF MUCOSA DUODENUr/l "v-t„L SEROUS COAT LONGITUDINAL MUSC. CtRCULAR MUSC LA', e — AREOLAR COAT ■MUCOUS COAT Fig. 766.—Vertical section at the junction of the stomach and duodenum, Fig. 707.—Cardiac iiland in showing the disposition ol the coats, bemidiagrammatic. (Tcstut.) longitudinal seciion. (F.H. G.) bore of the tube, but communicating with it through minute cracks between the overlying central cells. The pyloric glands have a very wide and deep duct, into the bottom of which open several divisions (funduses), which are wavy or even tortuous. The epithe- lium is in all parts very similar to that on the surface of the mucosa. Between the divisions is the true corium material, and at frequent intervals are irregular masses of lymph-adenoid material. THE SMALL INTESTINE. The small intestine (infesfinum temte) (Fig. 779) is that portion of the alimen- tary canal which begins on the distal side of the pyloric valve, and ends on the proximal side of the ileo-ca;cal. In other words it extends between stomach