THE FALLOPIAN TUBES. 827 and is without valves. Tiie Ijpnphatics hcgm as minute spaces in the tunica fibrosa of the follicles, around which they form plexuses. At the hilum they are condensed into five or six trunks ; and, foUowinuj the veins, they finally empty into the lumbar nodes. The nerves are derived from the ovarian plexus of the sympathetic. An additional supjjly is probably received from the uterine nerves, branches of the third and fourth sacral. Migration.—-The ovaries are situated primarily in the lumbar region, in front of the psoas, and near the kidney. About the third month of intra-uterine life they begin to descend, and at the ninth month they reach the brim of the ])elvis. This descent is chiefly due to the fact that the lumbar region grows away from the ovary. Sometimes, though rarely, the gland may remain in its primitive situation, or it may descend into the inguinal canal, even passing through the external abdominal ring. THE FALLOPIAN TUBES. The Fallopian tubes, or oviducts ("egg-ducts") (Figs. 890, 891), two in number, are the excretoiy ducts of the ovaries and serve to convey the ova to the uterine cavity. Location.—They are situated in the free or u])per margin of the l)road liga- ments, between the ovaries behind and the round ligaments in front. Internally they are continuous with the superior angles of the uterus, externally each tube is attached to the superior or outer extremity of the corresponding ovary. That portion of the broail ligament below each tube, and between it and the ovary, is called the meso-salpinx ("mesentery of the tube"). ■ The oviducts are, therefore, fixed in position by their continuity with the uterus, by their attachments to the ovaries, and by their imprisonment between the two peritoneal lamina^ of which the broad ligaments are composed. External Conformation.—Each tube is trumpet-shaped, and increases in size from within outward. At the ovarian extremity, it expands to enclose a funnel- shaped space, the hifundihiihivi or pavUion. It varies in length from four to five inches, and is divided into three parts as follows : (a) the inner extremity or interstitial portion ; (l>) the middle portion or body ; (e) tlie external or fim- briated extremity. The iiifersfitial portion is contained in the thickness of the uterine wall. Its canal, very narrow, is continuous with the uterine cavity through a small opening, the ostium iderinum. (" door of woml) "), which is only large enough to admit a small bristle. The bodtj is subdivided into two parts, an inner or isthmus and an outer or ampulla. The isthmu.s is hard, cylindrical, straight, and nearly horizontal. It measures an inch and a half in length, and has a diameter of about one-eighth of an inch. The canal of this division is still very small, though somewhat inci'eased as compared witli that of the interstitial por- tion, with which it is continuous. The ampidla ("bottle") or receptacuhun mninis (" reservoir of seed") extends from the isthmus to the fimbriated extremity. It is distinguished from the former by the fact that it has thinner walls, and is softer, and flattened antero-posteriorly. It is also markedly flexuous, and the diameter is almost twice that of the isthmus. Its canal, increased in size toward the outer extremity, is irregular in calibre, and large enough to admit a uterine sound. The fimbriated extremity (infundibuliun) opens downward, backward, and inward. It is the most movable part of the tube, and receives the ova after their discharge from tiie (xranfian follicles. Tliis extremity may be divided for description into an internal and an external surfiice, a base and a summit. The external surfiice, continuous with the outer surface of the tube, is smooth and covered by visceral peritoneum. The internal surface is continuous with the corresponding surface of the ampulla, and lined by a prolongation of its mucous membrane. At the summit, the infundibulum communicates with the cavity of the ampulla througli a narrow opening, a line to a line and a half in diameter,