THE EXTERIOR OF THE SKULL. 191 in outline, witli sliglit prujections at tlie frontal and jiarictal eminences and at the occipital protuberance. At the meeting of" the sagittal and coronal sutures is the bregma, at the site of the anterior fontanelle ; and the himbdd is where the sagittal and lambdoid sutures meet, at the site of the posterior fontanelle. The occipital protuberance is known as the iition ("occiput"). Except in very broad skulls the zygomatic arches are visible from above. The lateral or temporal region (Figs. 219, 220) presents the tcmjjordl fossa, I formed by the temporal, parietal, sphenoid, frontal, and malar bones, and occu- Firi. 219.—Skull, viewed from the left side, showing the principal craniometric points. pied by the temporal muscle. It is limited below by the zygomatic arch exter- nally and the pterygoid ridge of the sphenoid internally. Above it is bounded by the temporal ridr/e, which, starting at the external angular jn'ocess of the frontal bone, arches upward and backward, and then downward. Near the coronal suture it usually divides mion, superior awX an 'inferior ridge. The latter limits the origin of the temporal muscle, and is continuous behind M ith the snjiramastoid crest and I the posterior root of the zygoma. The former, less constant and not as marked, attaches the temporal fascia and arches down to the mastoid ]irocess near the asterio7i (" starry") at the site of the posterior lateral fontanelle. The pferion ("wing"), at the site of the anterior lateral fontanelle, is where the jjarietal, frontal, sjjhenoid, and temporal bones come together. The temporal fossa com- municates with the zygomatic fossa through the opening bounded externally l)y the zygomatic arch. The zygomatic fossa, is bounded in front by the zygomatic surface of the max- illa, internally by the external ])terygoid plate, externally by the zygomatic arch and ramus of the jaw, and sujieriorly by a small triangular surface on the squamosal and by the great wing of the sphenoid internal to the pterygoid ridge. Posteriorly it is limited by a line drawn from the sphenoidal spine to the zygo- matic tubercle. It is occupied by the pterygoid and temporal muscles and the coronoid process of the lower jaw. Internally, between its anterior and internal boundaries, is the vertical pteri/go-ma.rilfari/ fissvre, between the maxilla and the anterior border of the external pterygoid plate. This connects the zygomatic with the spheno-maxillary fossa. Above and at right angles to the pterygo-maxillary