MEMBRANES. 65 ganglia. These fibi'es branch within the nerve-centre, and send their nltimate twigs among the cells, but do not unite with theiu. Ganglia ("knots") are bunches of various sizes occurring in the course of nerves. They are made up of nerve-cells and their coverings, massed upon and between the fibres of nerves (Fig. 65). Each cell of a ganglion has one or more axis-cyl- inder processes, which are prolonged into nerve-hbres. The ganglion is clothed with areolar tissue, which sends trabecuke through it in every direction. Before coming to their peripheral divis- ion many medullatcd nerves lose their white substance ; but others retain it during several stages of branching, and in these last the division takes place at nodes. After the disappearance of the medullary sheath the primitive sheath continues for a variable distance. Afferent (sensory) nerves have various peripheral terminations. Some of them end in cells, others in special organs, as tactile corpuscles, end-bulbs, and Pacinian bodies. These will be described in the chapter devoted to the organs of the senses. Certain aflfcrcnt nerves end ])eripherally by the final separation of the axis-cylinder into its component fil)rils, wliich run between the tissue-elements, and generally either end there or else penetrate the cells. The sensory nerve- endings in tendons are often suggestive of the ending of motor nerves of volun- tary nmscle, to be described presently. Close to the muscle pro]>er a medullated fibre jiasses into the tendon, divides rci)eatedly, and the fil- aments of the axis-cylinder penetrate widely into the tendon. Efferent nerves have different endings ac- cording to the variety of muscle to which they are distributed. In the case of the plain mus- cular tissue the fibrillte of the nerve are brought close to the muscle-cells, after the nerve has formed a plexus in which ganglion-cells often occur. In cardiac muscle tlie nervous filaments come from a long-meshed plexus, and are ap- plied to the contractile fibres. Finally, in stri- ated muscle, after the formation of a close plexus, the nerve loses its white sheath, the axis-cylinder enters the muscle-fibre, and just beneath the sarcolemma splits up into its fibril- Ite, which spread out in a thin mass of granular material in which nuclei are embedded. This is the motorial end-jAate (Fig. 66). MEMBRANES. In its widest meaning the word " membrane " is used to designate any thin expansion of tissue, either simple or compound. Thus, we speak of the ])erios- teum, the covering of bone, as a fibrous memV)rane ; we call the layer of cells beneath the epitheliiun of free surfaces the basement membrane ; and a structure composed largely of blood-vessels may be known as a vascular membrane. But in a restricted, although the commonest, sense the word is applied to a broad, sheet-like organ, with a free (unattached) surface, furnishing the covering of a 5 Fig. 6.5.—Arranfiement of nerve-oells and nerve-fibres In a ganglion. (TJalton.) Fio. r.C).—Motorial end-plate, the termi- nation of a ner\ e in a tibre of crohs-striped muscle. (Testut.)