THE BONES. 164 and the calcaneum outward in front, the upper and outer border of the former is found over tlie middle of the latter, making the internal maUeolus appear more prominent. In infancy the head of the astragalus is inclined inward more tlian in the adult, so that tiie foot is then naturally invi'rted. The tuberosity of the navicular on the inner border of the foot and that of tlie base of the fifth metatarsal on the outer border, both readily felt through the soft parts, are the best guides to the medio-tarsal and tarso-metatarsal joints. The tuberosity of the fifth metatarsal is a finger's breadth in front of the medio-tarsal, and directly in front of the tarso-metatarsal joint; that of the navicular is two fingers' breadth behind the tarso-metatarsal and directly in front of the medio- tarsal joint. Homologies of the Bones of the Two Extremities. The following conclusions are generally admitted : The thoracic and pelvic limbs are constructed on the same type in their attaching girdles and their several segments. In the jDelvic and shoulder girdles the ilium corresponds to the scapula, the ischium to the coracoid process, and the os pubis to the precoracoid, and per- haps to the clavicle. At an early stage of embryonic life the liml)s are folded ventrally upon the body, and present pre- and post-axial borders and dorsal or extensor and ventral or flexor surfaces. Later, the upper limb rotates outward 45°, and the lower limb rotates inward 90°. This brings the flexor surface in the u^iper limb forward and inward, and in the lower limb backward. The small trochanter and internal condyle of the femur, the tibia, and the great toe in the lower limb are pre-axial, and correspond respectively to the great tuberosity and outer condyle of the humerus, the radius, and the thumb in the upper limb, etc. The patella in tlie lower limb and the olecranon in the upper have no corresjionding parts in tlie other limb. The adult human skeleton is adapted in every part to maintain with ease the erect attitude by being nearly balanced around the line of the centre of gravity in the standing posture, and in this respect it differs from that of other mammals. Stability and strength are provided in the lower limbs, mobility and lightness in the upper. THE SKULL. The bones of the head, composing the skull, contain and protect the brain and sense-organs, as well as the commencement of the alimentary and res2:)iratory tracts. With the exception of the lower jaw, the bones are immovably joined together by sutures, forming a bilaterally symmetrical, spheroidal figure, some- what compressed laterally. It is supported upon the vertebral column, with the upper segment of which it articulates. For description, the twenty-two bones of the skull are divided into two sets. The cranium, or brain-case, is the part above and behind, and comprises eight bones—viz. : f Occipital. T) 1 Siihcnoid. o r i f Two parietals. Uasilar bones, rp , i Koof bones, < -p, i , ' i wo temporals. '[I'rontal. [ Ethmoid. The face is the lower and fore part, composed of six pairs and two single bones, or foui'teen in all—viz. : in pairs, the maxilhe, palate, inferior turbinate, nasal, lachrymal, and malar ; single bones, the vomer and mandible. The hyoid bone may also be classed here, as appendicular to the bones of the head. The base of the skull is ])reformed in cartilage, the roof and sides in membrane.