167 THE OCCIPITAL BONE. inferior angles, and are uneven and less deeply serrated. Between the lateral angles and the jugular processes they articulate with the mastoid portions of the temporals in the occipHo-masfoid suture. The small rough extremity of each jugular process articulates with the jugular facet of the petrous portion of the temporal bone by synchondrosis until about the twenty-iifth year, when the union becomes osseous. In front of the jugular process is the smooth jugular notch (see above). Between this notch and the antero-inferior angle the borders are rough for articnlatiou with the jjetrous portion of the temporal ])one. A somcAvhat octagonal form is not infrequently presented by this bone, due to the projection of the jugular processes and the middle of the superior bordei's. The foramen magnum is oval in shape, with the long axis directed from before backward. It is encroached upon laterally in its fore part by the condyles, and transmits the upper end of the spinal cord with its membranes and accom])any- ing structures. From the condyles, tliiek ridges of bone, wliich strengthen tlie i skull and transmit its weight to the condyles, pass in four directions—viz., for- FiG. 186.—The occipital bone, viewed from above. (Spalteholz.) ward into the basilar process, laterally into the jugular processes, backward ' around the foramen, and thence upward as the occipital crest, etc. Development.—The basilar and condylar portions ossify each from a single centre. The squamous portion has four centres in two laterally disposed pairs— a pair above in the interparietal portion, and a pair below in the supraocci])ital portion. These two pairs usually unite, l)ut may remain separate through life, forming an interparietal bone, as in lower vertebrates ; or, more commonlv, two lateral fissures remain, a condition usually found at birth. The condylar portions join the squamous in lines extending outward from the posterior margin of the foramen magnum, and they join the basilar portion in lines passing through the antei'ior extremities of the condyles. The centres for the interparietal portion are deposited in membranes, those for the rest of the bone in cartilage. Varieties.—There is sometimes seen a groove for the occipital sinus along the internal occipital crest. The jugular notch is often found partly subdivided by a ! small intrajuepikvr process, and it is frequently separated from the groove for the sinus by a thin transverse ridge. A projection sometimes found beneath the jugular process, the parama.S'<o/cZ process of many mammals, may rarely be so long as to meet the transverse process of the atlas. Frequently the anterior con-