350 THE FASCES. course tlironjih thi^i tissue are in some situations large and oonspicnons, as on the dorsum of the liand and f(jot. Other organs are located in it, of which the most notable is the mammary gland. The occasions for calling this structure other than subcutaneous areolar tissue are very infrequent; and, as the name " fascia," unless limited by an adjective, is usually employed in surgical parlance to designate the deep fascia, it will be thus used in the remainder of this chapter, unless specific exception is made. THE DEEP FASCIJE. The typical deep fascije are close sheets of fibrous tissue, in which the white variety exists in an almost unadulterated form. On account of this histological composition these fascia? are pearly white, flexible, strong, and inelastic. Their structure and physical qualities immediately bring to mind the characteristics of ligaments and tendons, which have identical structure ; and the suggestion is especially apt for the reason that some fasciie are really interosseous ligaments, and a numl)er are properly to be regarded as tendons. Moreover, the employ- ment of the word "fascia" is ofttimes arbitrary, as, for example, in the case of the transversalis aV)dominis muscle, whose tendon of origin is almost always described as a layer of the lumbar fascia, and whose tendon of insertion is con- ventionally dubbed an aponeurosis, although in both situations the tendons are sheet-like expansions, which serve for the ensheathing of muscles. In this connection it is interesting and useful for the student to observe anew the continuity of the fibrous membranes—ligaments, tendons, and fascite blending with periosteum, tendons and fasciae serving as ligaments, tendons losing them- selves in fasciae, tendons of some muscles acting as fascise for other luuscles, and so on. THE FASCI-S: OF THE HEAD. A structui-c which may fairly be included in this group is the epicranial apo- neurosis, which has already been described in connection witli the muscles of the region (page 348). The Temporal Fascia. The temporal fascia has its superior attachment on the U]iper temporal ridge, its inferior on both borders of the zygoma, splitting into two layers just before reaching this arch. It encloses the ti'tTi])oral muscle, and is partially covered l)y the epicranial aponeurosis, the oi'bicuhiris ]ialpebrarum, attrahens aurem, and attolens aurem. The Masseteric Fascia. The masseteric fascia is directly contiinious with the cervical fascia. It covers the masseter muscle, and ends above at the lower border of the zygoma. In front it is in ])art attached to the coronoid process and in part blends with the buccinator fascia. Traced backward it is found to cover the parotid gland, and this portion is often called the parotid fascia. From the hind part of the last named a fibrous band is given off, connecting the angle of the lower jaAV-bone -with the styloid process of the temporal, the stylo-mandibular ligament. (See outer cervical fascia.) The Buccinator Fascia. The hncciiudor fascia covers the buccinator muscle. Above and below it is attached to the alveolar processes of the jaw-bones, behind is contiinious with the masseteric fascia, and in front gradually thins out into areolar tissue.