362 THE FASCIA. THE FASCIA OF THE HIP AND THIGH. Tliese structures are not separated by a clearly defined boundary, and will be considered as one, which, on account of its gi-eat extent, is commonly called fd.scia htta {" the broad band"). It is cylindrical in shape, and extends from the highest margin of the hi^i to the loAvest limit of the thigh. At its upper end it is attached along an irregular line, ■which lies successively ii]>on the coccyx, sacrum, iliac crest, the inguinal (Poupart's) ligament, the body and descending ramus of the os pubis, ascending ramus and tuberosity of the ischium, and the great sacro-sciatic ligament, thus completing the circuit. It also has an attachment to the ilio-pectineal line, which M ill be mentioned again ])resently. It is continuous below with the fascia of the leg, is attached by its deep surface to the bony ]n'<iminences around the knee, and contributes to the formation of the capsular ligament of this joint. In most parts it is a single layer, but, in the region of the gluteus maximus, it has two lamellfe, which ensheathe the muscle, and a similar arrangement obtains in the case of the tensor vaginee femoris, otherwise called the tensor fasciae latte. The portion of the fascia on the outer aspect of the thigh is the strongest, and is called the ilio- tihlal band, from its attachments at the iliac crest and the outer tuberosity of the tibia. The fascia sends inward to the femur two hiterrimscvktr septa, which par- tition the thigh into an anterior compartment and a posterior, the former contain- ing the cpiadriceps and sartorius, the latter the other muscles. These septa, exter- nal and internal, have their osseous attachments respectively upon the outer and inner lips of the linea aspera and their upward and downward prolongations. Other and less important septa also occur. Just below the median end of the inguinal (Poupart's) ligament is an oval hole, measuring about an inch in its long (vertical) diameter, and called the saphenoKS opening, from its transmission of the long saphenous vein. The part of the fascia at the outer side of this aj^erture is the iliac portioti ; the part at the inner side is the pubic portion. The saphe- nous opening may be regarded as a notch in the upper border of the fascia, the angles of the notch overlapping each other without contact, so that the o])ening has not a continuous margin. The part of the margin which comes in front is continuous with the inner end of the inguinal (Poupart's) ligament; that which goes to the rear curves backward, and is attached to the ilio-pectineal line. The n])per, outer, and under portions of the rim taken together are sickle-shaped, and bear the name of falciform process. It is attached to the front of the sheath of the femoral vessels. Behind the plane of the saphenous opening are the uji^jer parts of the femoral vessels, enclosed in a funnel- shaped sheath, which lies close to the artery, but is separated from the vein by an interval. This space constitutes a passage, the femoral or crural cernal (Fig. 419), whose upper or abdominal end has already been described as the femoral or crural ring. It is through this canal that a femoral hernia descends. The saphe- nous opening is closed in by a thin layer of areolar tissue (superficial fascia), which, from its being perforated by many vessels, suggests a sieve, and hence is called the cribriform fascia. FEMORAL FEMORAL i/EIN GIMBERNAT'S LIGAMENT INGUINAL LIGAMENT PUBIC SPINE Fig. 4iy,—The femoral canal. (Testut.) THE FASCI-S: OF THE LEG. The principal fascia of the leg is directly continuous with that of the thigh above and that of the foot below. It is not, however, a complete enclosure for