54Z THE OBLONGATA. foramen of Magendie, or metapore, through which the cerebro-spinal fluid miugles with the fluid in the serous cavity which surrounds the axis. In connection with the membrane should be mentioned the obex, a small layer of gray substance, which is stretched across the very apex of the triangle ; and the ligula, a small irregular lamina of white nervous tissue, which projects slightly over the mem- brane from each lateral border. Both of these structures are rudimentary. If the membrane is removed, the cavity of the fourth ventricle is exposed, and we see the part of its floor which is directly continuous with the portion pro- vided by the pons. The space presents a triangle, whose base is applied to that of the pons. The apex of the triangle has been likened to the nib of a pen, and, consequently, is referred to as the calamus seriptorius (" the writing pen "). The median cleft of the pons is continued down through the oblongata, and on each side of it are arranged from within outward three somewhat triangular areas— the internal white, the middle gray, and the external white—the flrst and third standing in relief. Eunning from the mid-line outward is a variable number of nervous threads, strke acusficce (" auditory stripes "), which turn around the restes, and end in the auditory nerve. The loiver half of the dorsal part of the oblongata is marked by the dorso- median fissure and on each side by the dorso-lateral fissure, and between them is the dorsal column, which is unequally divided by the dorso-intermediate fissure into a smaller, mesial column, the fasciculus gracilis ("slender bundle"), which is continued downward into the dorso-mesial column of the spinal cord (the tract of Goll), and a larger column, the fascicidus cuneatus ("wedge-shaped bundle"), which is prolonged downward into the dorso-lateral column of the cord (the tract of Burdach). At about the junction of the lower part of the oblongata with its upper, expanded portion the fasciculi gracilis and cuneatus contain each a mass of gray, which is known as its nucleus. Thus we have the nucleus gracilis and the nucleus cuneatus. The cavity of this part of the oblongata is tubular, like that of the cord into which it runs. Internal Structure of the Oblongata. Transverse sections of the oblongata at different levels show marked varia- tions in the disposition of its constituent elements. It is manifest that the out- line of these sections will be strikingly different, for, as we know, the uppermost portion is spread out laterally, while the lowest is bunched together into a com- pact cylinder. The change in the arrangement of the included parts follows this general trend, and is shown particularly well in the case of the gray masses— these being small and dispersed in the higher levels, and being gradually gathered together as they are traced downward, until they are united into a single, coherent mass of definite form. A horizontal section at the middle of the olives shows the cavity of the fourth ventricle at the extreme dorsal limit (Fig. 606). The dorsal boundary is broad and nearly flat, the ventral is narrow and broken in the middle by the ventro- median fissure, and each lateral undulates between these two, the whole periphery being described in generous curves. A median raphe is made by a criss-cross of white fibres, and on each side of it the surface is divided into three unequal terri- tories by the fibres of the tenth and twelfth cranial nerves. The tenth (pneumogas- tric) nerve marks off a dorso-lateral portion, the twelfth (hypoglossal) a ventro-mesial area, and the large space enclosed between these two has its superficial margin at the side. In the ventro-mesial area is the pyramid, and just dorsal to it is the fillet—which will be described as a whole later. The arciform nuclei are partly wrapped around the pyramids. In the lateral area appears the nucleus of the olive, here looking like a broad, crinkled band of gray and nearly surrounding a space of white. The toothed appearance of this capsule has led to its being called the dentate nucleus. Two accessory olivary nuclei are observed, one show- ing as a short, broad line, near the opening of the main nucleus, the other on the