THE BONES. 184 articulating witli the inferior and middle tiirl)innte liones respectively. Above the upper ridge the two processes ascend, separated by the deep spheno-pdUdine notch, which is converted into a foramen of the same name by articulation with the sphenoid bone. This foramen connects the spheno-maxillary and nasal fossa;. Fig. 205.—The two palate-bones in their uatural pusi- Fig. 20fi.—The right palate-bone, tion, dorsal view. (Testut.) inner surface. (Testut.) and transmits the spheno-palatine artery and nerve. At the lower end of each process internally is a grooved surface entering into the supei'ior meatus. The five-sided orb'd(d proccs.i surmounts the anterior border of the vertical ]jlate, and articulates with the maxilla in front, the sphenoid behind, and the ethmoid internally. The ethmoidal cells or the sjihenoidal sinus may extend into its holloM^ body. Of the two free surfaces the superior forms the rear angle of i the orbital floor, and the external looks into the spheno-maxillary fossa, while the border between them bounds the spheno-maxillary fissure internally at its hind end. The sphenoidal process curves upward and inward, and articulates exter- nally and superiorly with the base of the internal pterygoid plate and of the sphenoidal body, completing with the former the pterygo-palatine canal. At its i lower part, in front, a small surface looks outward into the spheno-maxillary fossa. The inner surface looks into the nasal fossa, and above, where it touches the ala of the vomer, forms a part of its roof. The tuberosity ov pyramidal process \ is wedged in between the tuberosity of the maxilla and the 2>terygoid process. It presents externally a small free surface in the zygomatic fossa. Posteriorly it fi.lls the pterygoid notch, and completes the pterygoid fossa by a smooth triangular surface lying between two rough grooves, which articulate with the anterior bor- ; ders of the two pterygoid plates. Interiorly, near its junction with the horizontal < plate, with which it is continuous, are seen the lower orifices of the accessory, , posterior, and external jialatine canals. Articulation.—The palate articulates with its fellow, the vomer, maxilla, infe- rior turbinate, sphenoid, and ethmoid. Ossification proceeds from a single centre in the membrane of the nasal capsule. THE VOMER. The vomer (" ploughshare ") (Fig. 207) is a thin, irregular quadrilateral plate forming the lower and back part of the nasal septum. It is usually deviated from the vertical plane, most often to the left. Each lateral surface is covered with muco-periosteum, and presents a faint groove running downward and for- ward to conduct the naso-palatine nerve to Scarpa's canal. The thick superior border splits into two alee (" wings"), which embrace the rostrum of the sjihenoid, while their margins meet the vaginal processes of the sphenoid and the sphenoidal