THE PERITONEUM. 752 colon seems to he entirely surrounded by the rear wall of the sac. Furthermore, adhesion takes ])laee between the layers of the pouch which are below the level of the transverse colon, absorption occurs at many points, and the four-layered apron is converted into a coarse lace-work, in whose meshes a considerable deposit of fat appears. It is useful to trace the course of the peritoneum at different planes in order to obtain a comprehension of its continuity, the relations which it sustains to the abdominal viscera, and the relations which it maintains between them. If we make a horizontal section, of the abdomen a little above the iliac crests, and inspect the upper surface of the lower segment, we shall obtain such a view as is presented in the semidiagram, Fig. 812. Beginning at the descending colon, Small Lymphatic Vena cava A/scending Mesentery Arirta iiiteatine node inferior colon Fig. Kl2.—Course of the peritoneum, as seen in a horizontal section above the iliac crests. Semidiagram- matic. (Tillaux.) we trace the peritoneum over its left side, front, and part of its right side, but not upon its back, for it has no mesentery ; thence it extends to the face of the left kidney, which, like its mate, lies entirely behind the serosa, in other words is retroperitoneal ; from this organ the peritoneum stretches over the psoas mag- nus and onto the vertebral column and the aorta, which rests on its ventral sur- face ; then it passes forward as the left side of the mesentery, covering the vessels, nerves, nodes, and flit which are the essential parts of that structure, envelops the small intestine, and returns to the vertebral region as the right side of the mesentery ; here it partially coats the inferior vena cava, runs onto the right psoas, touches the right kidney, and turns around the ascending colon, giving it a larger covering than it favored the descending colon with, though it leaves its dorsal part nearly or quite bare ; thence it again reaches the right kidney, whose anterior aspect it partially clothes, and from this is reflected to the abdominal wall, and sweeps around to the starting point in a great expanse of parietal peri- toneum. If we examine the surface of this anterior wall at a lower level, we shall observe a median ridge from the bladder to the umbilicus, due to the urachus ; on each side of this a ridge, sloping down and outward fi-om the navel, these being caused by the obliterated hypogastric arteries ; nearly parallel with these and further to'the side, are slight elevations, which are produced by the epigastric vessels ; and, running down and inward from the iliac spines, the inguinal liga-