592 THE NERVES. {(/) Tlie lingual branches su])i>ly tlic jinsterior third of the dunsuni of the tongue, and tlie side of the tongiK' over its posterior half, where they join tlie lingual nerve. The circunivallate papilhe receive the most minute nerve-su[iplv. The posterior branches also sup])ly the anterior surface of the epiglottis. Testut describes, in addition to the above, ciirotid braitchcfi to join the carotid plexus and inasciUar tirl(/s to the digastric, stylohyoid, and styloglossus muscles. The Tenth, Pneumogastric, or Vagus Nerve. The tenth or pneumogastric ("lung-stomach") nerve (Fig. G47) is formed by the junction of from ten to fifteen filaments, ^vllich arise from the oblongata in front of the restifornv body and lateral tract, in series with and just below the roots of the glossopharyngeal nerve. They form together a flattened band \vhich passes outward and a little forward beneath the flocculus to reach the jugular foramen, through which it leaves the cranium between the inferior petrosal and lateral sinuses, in the same sheath of dura as the spinal accessory, and external to and a little behind the glosso- ])haryngeal nerve. In the jugular foramen its root-gcoujlion is found, and half an inch below this is a second ganglion called the cjanglion of the tnmh. This last is formed as the nerve runs downward from the base of the skull between the internal jugular vein and the internal carotid artery. In this situation, that is, immediately below the cranial base, the hyjioglossal nerve \\inds spirally round the vagus, lying first internally, then passing behind and round across its outer side. They are united to each other by fibrous tissue and some nerve- fibres which pass between the trunk ganglion and the hypoglossal nerve. Here also the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic and spinal accessory lie liehind the vagus, and the glossoj)haryngeal nerve in front of it. The pneumo- gastric now passes downward, behind and between the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein, and lower down maintains the same relation to that vein and the common carotid artery, being enclosed within the same fibrous sheath as these vessels. From the level of the clavicle downward the courses of the two nerves differ considerably, the differences, however, being readily explained by the mode of development of the great vessels, stomach, etc. The Right Pneumogastric Nerve enters the thorax by passing in front of the first portion of the subclavian artery, and between it and the right brachiocephalic vein. Bending backward to the side of the trachea, it gains the posterior sur- face of the root of the right lung, on which it breaks up into a coarse meshwork which forms, with fibres from the sympathetic, the posterior pvliaoiiari/ plexus. From tiiis plexus two distinct cords represent the continuation of the vagus to the right side of the «so])hagus. Around this tube a new plexus is formed, called the cesophaf/eal plexus, in which a free interchange of fibres occurs between the nerves of both sides. Again converging to form a single trunk the right vagus passes to the back of the oesophagus at its lower extremity, and, entering the abdomen through the (csojihageal opening in the diaphragm behind that tube, sjjreads out on the poste- rior surface ^)f the stomach. The Left Pneumogastric Nerve enters the thorax between the left eonunon carotid and left sul)clavian arteries, and behind the left brachiocephalic vein, and then passing a little backward crosses the root of the subclavian artery and the left side of the aortic arch under cover of the pleura. Reaching the back of the root of the left lung, it behaves on the left side as its fellow does on the right side; but its terminal trunk lies in front of the oesophagus, and its final branches supply the front of the stomach. The f/a,nf/lioii of the root is formed within the jugular foramen and is about one-sixth of an inch long. It has branches by which it communicates with the petrous ganglion of the glossopharyngeal, the spinal accessory nerve, the sujierior