433 THE ARTERIES. Eelatioxs of the Eight Com3Iox Iliac. In front. Peritoneum. Small intestines. Ureter. Inner side. Eight iliac vein. Left iliac vein. Older side. Eight common Psoas magnus muscle, iliac artery. Ascending vena cava. Eight iliac vein. Behind. Lower two lumbar vertebrse. Both common iliac veins. Eelatioxs of the Left Cojoiox Lliac. In front. Peritoneum. Small intestines. Ureter. Superior hemorrhoidal artery. Inner side. Older side. Left common iliac vein. Left common iliac Psoas magnus muscle. artery. Behind. Lower two lumbar vertebrae. Left common iliac vein. Variations.—The length of the common iliac varies with the point of bifurca- tion of the abdominal aorta. When the abdominal aorta bifurcates high up, as it does sometimes, on the third lumbar vertebra, the common iliacs are long. When the bifurcation is opposite the fifth lumbar we find very short common iliacs. In rare cases the common iliac is absent, the external and internal iliacs springing directly from the aorta. The common iliac sometimes gives off the middle sacral or a lateral sacral branch. Surgical Anatomy.—The common iliac has been successfully tied for aneurism below this point. The majority of the operations have been extraperitoneal. The easiest and best method, however, is the transperitoneal. An incision is made in the median line below the umbilicus, with the patient in the Trendelen- burg position ; the intestines are held up out of the way, the posterior parietal peritoneum is divided over the artery, and the vessel isolated and ligated. Great care must be taken to avoid injury to the iliac veins, which, as has been seen, differ in their relations to the vessel on the two sides ; and the ureter, which, as a rule, crosses the lower portion of the vessel, must also be recognized and avoided. Branclies.—As a rule there are no branches given off in the course of the vessel. (See Variations.) The Internal Iliac Artery (Fig. 474). The internal iliac artery takes its origin at the point of bifurcation of the com- mon iliac opposite the articulation between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum, and runs downward to the upper border of the great sacro-sciatic notch, where it bifurcates into an anterior and posterior trunk. 2S