THE LIVER. 743 the o;all-blacl(ler fissure is a large, uneven area, the right lobe. Behind tlie left portfon of the portal fissure appears the lower edge of the Hplgdian lol>(', \he main portion of which is visible only from behind. Finally, a narrow ridge behind the portal fissure connects this inferior border of the Spigelian lobe with the right lobe, and is dubbed the c(iM(Jate lobe, from its fancied resemblance to the tail of an animal. About one-half the area of the right lobe at the front and right is notably concave and receives the hepatic flexure of the colon. At the left of this, and obliquely behind the gall-bladder, is a small impression in which a knuckle of the duodenum is located ; and behind both of these areas is a some- what rhomboidal hollow wliicli is occupied l)y the upi)er end of the right kidney. A considerable part of the surface of the left lobe; is concave and fits the bulging fundus of the stomach ; but there is a ]irominent protuberance at the right and behind (the tuber omentale) against which lie the gastro-hepatic omentum, and the smaller curvature of the stomach. The Hind Surface (Fig. 803) presents two parallel, vertical grooves : one, narrow and shoal, connecting the umbilical fissure of the under surface with the Fig. 803.—The liver, posterior surface. A part of the under surface is seen from tlie rear view, and tliis is sliovvn merely in outline. (Drawn from the His cast. F. H. G.) posterior end of the space between the two layci's of the suspensory ligament on the u])per side, and containing the shrunken remnant of the ductus venoms of fcetal life ; the other, broad and deep, corresponds to the gall-bladder fissure of the under side, at the lower end is separated frf)m it only by the breadth of the caudate lobe, and furnishes a sjiacious lodging for some inches of the vena cava inferior. These fissures are known by the names of the structures which are embedded in them. Between them lies a rectangular space called the Spigelian lobe, whose lower margin is seen on the inferit)r surface, and whose upper edge is visible from above. At the right of the vena-cava fissure is the large, convex ! right lobe ; and at the left of the ductus-venosus fissure is the left lobe, small in extent, somewhat tx'iangular in shape at the right, and rapidly ta])ering at the left and becoming a mere margin, which is directly continuous around the left extremity of the liver with the anterior border.