422 THE BLOOD-VASCULAB SYSTEM. dyle, where it anastomoses -with the su2)erior profunda of the brachial. Mus- cular branches are given oif from the radial to the muscles of the forearm ^\•ith which it is in contact. The anterior carpal branch of the radial supplies the anterior surface of the carpus, anastomosing with the anterior ulnar carpal artery. The superfieialis voice arises from the artery above the wrist, passes through the muscles of the thenar eminence, and anastomoses with the super- ficial palmar arch. The branches iit. the icrid are the jiosterior carpal, the first dorsal inter- osseous, the dorsal artery of the thuml), and the dorsal arterv of the index finger. The posterior carpal (Fig. 467) supplies the posterior surface of the carpus, anas- tomosing with the posterior carpal branch of the ulnar. The first dorsal inter- osseous artery supplies the interosseous space between the index and middle fin gers. The dorsal artery oj the thumb (dorsalis pollicis) runs over the dorsal Fig. 466.—Horizontal section at middle of right forearm—upper .surfaee of lower segment. (After Braune.) aspect of the thumb, dividing into two branches, which supply both sides of the dorsum of the thumb. The dorsal artery of the index fiur/cr (dorsalis indicis) sup- plies the outer side of the dorsal surfiice of the index finger. In the hand the radial gives off the following branches—the main arterv of the thumb (princeps pollicis), the radial artery of the index finger, the perforating, the interosseous, and the recurrent. The prineeps pjollicis passes downward in front of the metacarpal bone of the thumb to its head, where it divides into two branches, which supply the inner and outer surfiices of the thumb. The radialis indicis passes along the radial side of the metacarpal bone of the index finger, and supplies the radial side of this digit to its tip. The deep palmar arch (Fig. 468) is situated on the bases of the metacar])al bones, with the flexor tendons in front; it is completed bv the anastomosing of the radial with the deep communicating branch of the ulnar. The deep arch is about half an inch nearer the wrist than the superficial. From the arch are given ofi' the interosseous arteries, three in