THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTE3L 382 anastomotica magna. The radial extends from the point of bifurcation of the brachial to the palm of the hand, where it forms the deep palmar arch, anasto- mosing with the deep branch from the ulnar. It gives off in the forearm the radial recurrent, the muscular, the anterior carpal, and the superficial is voke; in the wrist, the posterior carjjal, the metacarptal, the dorsalis indicis, and dorsalis poinds ; in the hand, the pn-inceps pollicis, the radicdis indicis, the perforating, and interosseous. The ulnar begins a half inch below the elbow, and like the radial extends into the hand, terminating in the superficial jxdmar arch, anasto- mosing with the superfieialis voli®. In the forearm it gives off the anterior tdnar recurrent, the posterior ulncir recurrent, the interosseous, which divides into an anterior and posterior branch, and muscular. In the wrist it gives off anterior and p>osterior carpal branches, and in the hand the deep communicating branch and the digital. Returning to the aorta, we find that the thoracic jjortion, which begins at the lower border of the fifth thoracic vertebra and terminates at the aortic opening in the diaphragm, gives off bi'anches as follows : ptericardial, bronchial, (esophageal, pjosterior mediastinal, and intercostal—these branches supplying the walls and contents of the thorax, with the exception of the heart-substance, Avhich is suji- plied by the coronary arteries. The abdominal aorta begins at its opening in the diajihragm, and terminates on the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra by dividing into the common iliacs. It gives off as branches the plirenic, the cceliac axis, the superior mesenteric, the renal, the suprarenal, the spermatic, the inferior mesenteric, the lumbar, and the sacral arteries. These vessels as a grouj) su]>ply the walls of the abdominal cavity and the viscera contained within that cavity. The common iliac begins on the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra and extends to the intervertebral substance between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum. Here it divides into the internal and externcd iliac arteries. The common iliac gives off no branches of importance in its course. The internal iliac extends from the intervertebral substance between the last lumliar vertebra and sacrum to the upper margin of the great sacro-sciatic notch, where it divides into an anterior and posterior trunk, the anterior giving off as branches the superior vesical, the middle veMcal, the inferior vesical, the middle hemorrhoidal, the obturator, the interned pudic, and the sciatic; also, the uterine and vaginal in the female. The posterior trunk gives off the ilio-lumbar, the latercd sacral, and the gluteal. As a group, the branches of the internal iliacs supply the walls and viscera of the pelvis. In addition to this, the gluteal, sciatic, and obturator supply the buttock and back ])art and internal surface of the thigh, and the internal pudic supplies the perineum and external organs of generation. The external iliac extends from the termination of the common iliac to the inguinal (Poupart's) ligament. Here it changes its name and becomes the femoral. In its course it gives off two vessels, the deep epigastric and circumfl.ex iliac. The femoral begins at the inguinal (Poupart's) ligament and extends to the femoral opening in the adductor magnus muscle. Here it passes into the popli- teal space and becomes the p)op}liteal. In its course it gives off as branches the superficial epigastric, the superficial externcd pudic, the supjerficied circumflex iliac, tlie deep external pudic, the jjj-ofunda, the muscular, and the anastomotica magna. The profunda, which is a large trunk, gives off as branches the external circumflex, the internal circumflex, and the three ■perforating arteries. The femoral with its branches supplies the thigh. The popliteal extends from the opening in the adductor magnus muscle to the lower border of the popliteus muscle, and here divides into the anterior and pjosterior tibial arteries. In its course it gives off muscular branches, superior and inferior cutaneous, superior external articular, superior internal articular, azi/gos articular, inferior external articular and inferior internal articular arteries, which as a group supply the tissues in the popliteal space and the knee-joint. The anterior tibicd begins at the lower border of the popliteus muscle, per-