171 THE TEMPORAL BONE. ethmoidal cells and the antei-ior and j)osterior ethmoidal caneds. The anterior canals transmit the nasal nerve and anterior ethmoidal vessels; the posterior canal, the posterior ethmoidal vessels. The cerebral surface forms a deep concavity, encroached u]ion but slightly by the convexity of the upper surfaces of the oi'bital plates, whicli form the greater part of the floor of the anterior cranial fossa. The oi'bital plates and the adjoin- ing bone present marked depressions and ridges for the frontal convolutions. TROCHLEAR FOSSA I'IG. I'Jl.—The frontal bone, seen from below. iTestut.) i Elsewhere the bone is smoother, except for a median furrow, the frontal mlms. \ This starts from the upper border, with pits for Pacchionian bodies on both sides, and narrows down below to the thin prominent frontal crest. The superior longi- I tudinal sinus is lodged in the sulcus, and the falx cerebri is attached to the ci-est ! and the ridges of the sulcus. The termination of the crest, by articulation Avith the crista galli of the ethmoid, completes the foramen caecum {" blind hole "). When not closed below, this foramen transmits a small vein from the nose. Borders and Articulations.—The 'posterior border articulates with the parietal bone in the coronal siitKir, nearly as far outward as a rough triangular surface. This triangular surface articulates with the great wing of the sphenoid, forming the posterior half of the outer margin of the orbital plate. It is continuous behind with the thin posterior margin of the orbital plate, which articulates with the small wing of the sphenoid. The malar bone articulates with the fore part of the outer margin of the orbital plate. The parallel inner borders of the orbital surface articulate with the os planum of the ethmoid behind and the lachrymal in front. The margins of the ethmoidal notch articulate with the cribriform plate I of the ethmoid laterally, and the crista galli in front. (The articulations of the I nasal notch and spine have been described above.) Ossificedion proceeds from two centres in the membrane at the site of the frontal I eminences. At birth there are two separate lateral halves, soon united by the median fronted or metopic suture, which is usually obliterated by ossification, ex- cept for a trace at the glabella, but sometimes persists throughout life. The frontal sinuses appear about the seventh year as forward growths from the ante- I rior ethmoidal cells, and increase up to old age. They may invade the roof of the orbit quite extensively. THE TEMPORAL BONE. The temporal ("temple") bone {Figs. 192-195) forms part of the side and I base of the skull, contains the organ of hearing, and articulates with the lower jaw. Although it is usually described in three parts—viz. squamous, mastoid, and petrous—the three parts separable at birth are the squamous, pctro-mastoid, and tympanic. ! The ScLuamous Portion.—This is a thin plate, extending upward and forward I at right angles to the petrous, and forms jiart of the side-Avall of the middle fossa I of the skull. The outer surface, but slightly convex, is smooth, except for a ver- tical gi'oove above the external auditory meatus for the middle tennDoral artery.