612 THE NERVES. The internal terminal division splits into two branches wliich proceed to the next two finger clefts, passing under the superficial palmar arch, but superficial to the tendons. At the level of the nietacarpo-phalangeal joints they appear between the divisions of the palmar fascia and split into collaterals to'the con- tiguous sides of the index and middle, and middle and rinu' fingers respectively. Each of these nerves supplies the palmar surface of the finger to which it belongs and gives a dorsal twig to the nail matrix. Twigs from the digital branches supply the two outer lumbrical muscles, and the innermost digital branch communicates with the ulnar nerve. 6. The Small Internal Cutaneous Nerve. The small internal cutaneous nerve (Figs. 659, 666), or nerve of Wrisherg (1. th.), arises from the inner cord of the plexus, and descends on the inner side of the axillary vein, and then under the fascia, which it pierces on the inner aspect of the arm about the middle. It bends backward and supplies the skin o\ev the olecranon and lower third of the arm. In the axilla it forms loops with the intercostohumeral, and sometimes also the lateral cutaneous branch of the third intercostal nerve. 7. The Internal Cutaneous Nerve. The internal cutaneous nerve (8 c, 1. th.) (Figs. 659, 666, 667) springs from the inner cord below the last. It descends in front of the axillary and brachial arteries, pierces the deep fascia with the basilic vein about two-thirds down the arm, and divides into an anterior and posterior branch. About the middle of the arm it gives a twig to the skin over the biceps. The anterior branch is the larger. It passes in front of or behind the median basilic vein, and supjilies the anterior ulnar area of skin as low as the wrist. The posterior branch descends in front of the internal condyle, and winds sharply backward to sup^jly the posterior ulnar region. 8. The Ulnar Nerve. The ulnar nerve (8. c., 1. th.) (Figs. 659-667), which is the largest branch of the inner cord, descends between the axillary arteiy and vein, and along the inner side of the brachial artery in the upper third of the arm. It then pierces the internal intermuscular septum with the inferior profunda artery, and descends beneath the deep fascia to the interval between the internal condyle and the olecranon process, where it passes between the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris to run between that muscle and the flexor profundus digitorum. It joins the ulnar artery and lies on the inner side of that vessel in the lower two-thirds of the forearm, crossing the anterior annular ligament with it immediately exter- nal to the pisiform bone. In the ])alni it divides, like the artery, into a super- ficial and a deep division. Branches.—As of the median nerve the first branches of the ulnar are articular filaments to the elbow joint, which are given off as it passes between the heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris. In the forearm it supplies muscular branches (8. c, 1. th.) to the fiexor carpi ulnaris and inner half of the fie.vor profundus digitoruvi. The palmar cutaneous branch is given off near the middle of the forearm. It descends in front of the ulnar artery, supplies twigs to that vessel, and terminates in the skin of the palm. The dorsal branch (8. c.) arises about two inches above the wrist joint, passes backward beneath the flexor carpi ulnaris, and is distributed to the skin on the dorsum of the hand, little finger, and inner side of the ring finger, communicating with the radial.