58 ELEMENT A B Y TLSS UES. Tlie colorless corpuscles are globular, granular, about 2-5V0 "^^^^ diameter, and possess nuclei which are indistinct during the life of the cell. At rest thev display amoeboid movements. This description will be seen to coincide with that of the lyniph-eorpuseles ; and this Mall not be surprising to one who has learned that the lymph-stream pours incessantly into the current of blood, so that -w hat is at one moment a lymph-corpuscle, at the next, having entered the blood-vascular system, is a blood-corpuscle. The colorless corpus- cles are divisible into a number of varieties, which are cliiefly differentiated by means of staining tests. The colored corpuscles are very abundant, num- bering perhaps tive hundred to one of the colorless, and making about one-half of the volume of the blood. They are circular, non-nucleated discs, with rounded edges and centrally de])ressed surfaces, smooth, amber, transparent, flexible, elastic, and about y^gVs inch broad. Besides these bodies are others, inconspicuous and somewhat difficult of dem- onstration, which need not be mentioned here. The blood is contained in the chambers and tubes of the blood-vascular system, from Avhich it does not in the spleen, where it courses in wall-less channels, during menstruation, when it is discharged through Fig. 49.—Blood-corpuscles. One colorless corpuscle is seeu at the top; the others are colored. (Dal- ton.) normally escape, excepting and in the case of women ruptures in the vessels. THE MUSCULAR TISSUES. Tissues Devoted to Movejiext. Contractility is in some degree an attribnte of various tissues. The typical and original cell manifests its amreboid movements by virtue of its contractilitv, which it brings to bear now in one direction, presently in another. The cilia on the free surface of an epithelium are made to perform their rhythmical lashings because of contractility in their cells. But the muscular tissues alone depend upon this property for the sole functional quality which distinguishes them. Their contractility is displayed on a macroscopic scale, and results in the active movements by which locomotion of the body and changes in the relation of its different ]iarts are effected. We distinguish three kinds of muscle, which differ anatomically, and, for the most part, physiologically also. They are— 1. Plain muscular tissue. 2. Cross-striped muscular tissue. 3. Cardiac muscular tissue. Plain Muscular Tissue. This tissue is known by a variety of names besides that just given. It is called smooth, for the same reason that it is called plain, because of the usual appearance of its cells ; non-striated or unstriped, to distinguish it from the second kind of muscle, which is characterized by a regular criss-cross of lines on its cells; involuntary, from the fact that it is not under the control of the will; vegetcdii^e and the muscular tissue of organic life, because it aids directly in the performance of those offices Avhich are classed as vegetative—in the organic action which is beneath consciousness. It is found, for tlie most part, in the walls of the hollow organs, as, for exam- ple, the alimentary tube, the urinary bladder and the tubes leading to and from it, and the arteries and veins. It is made up of cells (Fig. 50) which typically are fusiform ; but theii- ends