THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 724 The jejuno-ileum begins with a diameter of nearly an inch and a half, with closely set villi, long, deep, and numerous valvulje conniventes, and a fairly thick muscular coat; it ends with a cross-measurement of iiardly an inch, with scanty villosities, no connivent valves, and a thinner musculature. In a single direction only has it made a gain—the addition of the aggregated li/mph-norlu/efi, otherwise called the agminated glands and the jJ^tches of Peyer(Fig. 778). These \ _^ ^„ Fig. 778.—Aggregated lyiiipli-iiuilule d'eyers patch). (Ttstut.) are local accumulations of bodies in all essential respects like the solitary lym])h- nodules, which are scattered throughout the length of the small intestine—they are colonies of lymph-nodules. They produce scarcely any elevation of the sur- face, but are not crossed by connivent valves ; they are always situated at the free border of the tube, with their greater diameter lengthwise of it; are rarely found in the upper half, and become larger and more numerous as the large intes- tine is a])proached ; vary in size from a half inch in both directions to a width of about an inch and a length of ten inches, or possibly more ; are thirty or more in number on the average ; and tend to disappear gradually after middle life, so that in old people they may be recognizable only as areas of discoloration. They are the seat of the lesion in enteric (typhoid) fever. The blood-supply of the jejuno-ileum is derived from the superior mesenteric artery, whose l)ranches course lietween the two layers of the mesentery, are dis- tributed beneath the serous coat, anastomose on the free border, and perforate the muscular layers, forming a rich plexus in the areolar tunic, from which the raucous and muscular are furnished with their supply of arterioles and capillaries. The veins correspond. Ordinary Jiimphatics, originating in the other parts, are joined by those from the villi (lacteals), and leave by way of the mesentery to empty into the receptaculum. Tlie nerves come from the superior mesenteric plexus, accomjiany the vessels, and form one network between the layers of the muscular tunic, another in the areolar. Their exact terminations are not understood. The duodenum gets a part of its arterial blood fn»m the superior mesenteric, and the rest through branches of the hepatic. THE LARGE INTESTINE. The largeness which gives a name to the next grand division of the alimen- tary canal is in its transverse, not in its longitudinal, diameter ; for it is hardly more than a quarter as long as the small intestine, but is much wider, being two and a half inches across in its broadest part. The large intestine {intedimim crassum) (Fig. 779) is divided for description into three parts—csecum, colon, and rectum—and has so little mobility that the