500 THE CEBEBRO-SPmAL AXIS. lining of epithelium ; and (3) a membranous covering, which is essentially a net- work of blood-vessels (Fig. 530). (1) The nervous substance is gray, or white, or both of these. In diiferent parts this nervous wall receives distinguishing names—gyrus, lamina, nucleus, commissure, etc. (2) The lining is serous in character, and secretes a watery fluid, which moderately fills the entire cavity. The membrane is called ependyma, or merely P I A Fig. 530.—Diatiram of transverse section of Fig. 531.—Diagram of transverse section of axis, typical wall of cavity of cerebro-spinal axis. where a portion of the nervous wall has disap- peared, allowing pia and endyma to come together. endyma {" garment"). The fluid is called cerebrospinal fluid, or cejjhcdo-rachidiem fluid. (3) The covering sends nutrient vessels into the substance of the wall, and is called the pio, ov pia vuder (" the tender mother"). The solid \vall may grow to a thickness of several inches, it may dwindle to the thinness of paper, or it may even disappear altogether (Fig. 531); but endyma and pia are persistent. The endyma is a perfect shut sac, save for a diminutive aperture at a single point, by which a communication is established with another serous cavity lying outside of the axis. Real comprehension of the subject cannot be acquired without appre- ciation of these primary conditions, here repeated : that the eneepjhalon is a hollow organ, filled with fluid; that // has everywhere a serous lin- ing ; that it has a vascular plexus for its outer investment; and that it has nearly everywhere between its lin- ing and its covering a solid vmll of nervous tissue, which varies im- mensely in thickness in diiferent parts. The encephalon, at first a single vesicle, soon becomes elongated, and then constricted circularly and deeply at two equidistant points. In this way three secondary vesicles are formed (Fig. 532). They do not, however, long remain in this condition ; for, while the middle one continues single, the front one and the rear one are soon constricted transversely and divided, each forming two. Thus, there is a series of five vesicles of sub- FiG. 532. — Diagram of the three secondary vesicles of the brain. Fig. 533.—Diagram of the five ultimate vesicles of the brain.