INTR OD UVTOR Y. 36 slight it may be originally, it can be cultivated to such an extent as to be wonder- fully serviceable to the medical student. Although the few succeeding paragraphs are not specifically anatomical in their bearings, they have a pertinency in this place because every medical student at the beginning of his career should be given the advice which they cai'ry and which he is unlikely to find elsewhere. Among the articles of equipment which a medical student needs none is more important than a good medical dictionary. It is an indispensable. If he ignores its aid, he is doomed to stumble and blunder in every direction ; if he accepts the assistance which it will give for the asking, he can progress readily and vigorously in all the paths of medical study. A medical dictionary, in order to be thoroughly serviceable, ought to possess the following characteristics : The inclusion of substantially all of the words employed by the English-writing medical authors of the time ; the arrangement of these words in alphabetical order ; the various accredited spellings of the words ; the pronunciation of those words on whose orthoejiy one might go astray ; the etymon or original form of each, and the simplest translation of it; and a concise definition of the word in each signification in which it is employed. Several lexicons constructed on these lines are available, any one of which will do good service; but one which is less ample will not satisfy the reasonable requirements of the student. Although the so-called Roman pronunciation of Latin is generally taught in the schools and colleges of this country, the dictionaries, for sufficient reasons, use the English pronunciation of the Latin and Latinized words which form the principal part of the vocabulary of medicine; and this method is recommended to the student for his adoption. The student is earnestly advised to establish the habit of consulting his dic- tionary whenever he encounters a word whose meaning he does not know. He should fix the spelling in mind, learn the definition, observe and remember the derivation, and repeat the proper pronunciation luitil the tongue has fully mas- tered it. Finally, he will do well to ascertain the kinship of the word, if any exists, to other words already known, and to group these all together in his memory as relatives. By this method he will rapidly acquire a large vocabulary, the ability to employ words with strict regard to their meaning, to spell correctly, to jironounce elegantly, and, as an accompaniment and result of this training, he will be content with nothing less than precision of thought.