464 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. margin of tlie falx cerebri, increasing constantly in size, from the foramen ctecnm in front to the internal occipital protuberance behind, where, turning sharply to one side, usually the right, it is continuous Avith the lateral sinus. Its triangular lumen is crossed by a number of fibrous bands (the cords of Willis), and pro- jecting into it at intervals are the Pacchionian bodies. It receives the superior cerebral veins, which enter it mostly from behind forward (/. c, against the blood- stream). It often communicates through the ])arietal foramen with the temporal A eins of the scalp, and regularly in early life through the foramen cajcum with the veins of the nose. On apj)roaching the internal ()cci])ital protuberance it inclines slightly to the side to which it bends, and presents a dilatation, the torcu- lar Herophlll ("the wine-press of Hcroj^hilus "), which is lodged in a depression on the side of the internal occipital protuberance. The torcular usually receives the t)ccipital sinus, and gives a ci'oss-branch to the straight sinus, where the latter bends into the opposite lateral sinus. The Inferior Longitudinal Sinus is a small vessel of cylindrical form, which occupies the hind iialf or more of the lower border of the falx cerebri. It receives some branches fnjm the falx and the median surface of the brain, and terminates in the straight sinus. The Straight Sinus, triangular on section, extends downward and backward along the line of junction of the falx cerebri and the tentorium cerebelli, to the internal occipital protuberance, where it l)ends sharply to the side, usually to the ^^INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN Fig. 496.—Sinuses of the dura, left lateral view. (Testut.) left, and is continued into the latei'al sinus, being connected by a cross-branch with the torcular. It is formed in front, at the margin of tlie tentorium, by the union of the inferior longitudinal sinus with the great vein of Galen from the interior of the brain. The Lateral Sinuses commence at the internal oceijjital jn'otuberance, and end at the jugular foramina in tlie bulbs or sinuses which are continuous with the internal