THE FOOT AS A WHOLE. 163 those of the fonrtli and fifth toes, which are not infi-equently ankylosed with the terminal phahuiges. The two sesamoid bones in tlic tendon of the flexor brevis hallucis glide in 1 the two grooves on the plantar aspect of the head of the first metatarsal bone. Sesamoid bones occasionally occur elsewhere in the foot. Ossification.—The metatarsal and phalangeal bones ossify exactly like the corresponding bones in the hand. THE FOOT AS A WHOLE (Figs. 181-184). The foot is narrowest at the heel and Avidens to the heads of the metatarsal bones. The bones of the foot form a longitudinal arcJt with a single pier, the calcaneum, behind, while the forward pier is formed by the lieads of the meta- tarsal bones. It may be divided longitudinally into two parts in front, with a common support behind. The inner division consists of the hind two-thirds of Fig. 183.—The bones of the right foot, viewed from tlie outer side. (Testut.) the calcaneum, the astragalus, navicular, cuneiforms, and the three inner metatar- sals. It bears the greater ])art of the weight, and is the most raised from the ground. The outer division is formed by the calcaneum, bearing the cuboid and the two outer metatarsals, and acts mainly as a buttress to the inner arch. The longitudinal arch is supported largely by the ])lantar ligaments, Avhile a trans- verse arch, having its two internal piers at the internal cuneitbrm and the first metatarsal, and its external piers at the cuboid and the fifth metatarsal, is formed by the wedge-shape of the cuneiform bones and of the bases of the metatarsals. Fig. 184.—The bones of the right foot, viewed from the inner side. (Testut.) The longitudinal arch is weakest between the astragalus and navicular, where it is liable to yield, giving rise to flat-foot. In this condition it is well seen that the arch is not quite straight from the heel to the toes, but is slightly convex internally and concave on the outer border. The astragalus inclining inward