MINUTE ANATOMY OF THE LUNGS. 759 most conspicuous in the smallest tubes. The fibrous coat contains not only white fibrous tissue, but also many yellow fibres. It diminishes in thickness as the tubes become smaller, and is extremely thin within the lolniles. In the tubes which have a diameter of 2V ""^^h or more this coat is strengthened by cartilagin- I Fig. 817.—Bronehl and bronchioles. The Inngs have been widely separated, and tissue cut away to expose the air-tubes. (Testut.) ous plates, not disposed in an annular way, as in the trachea and bronchi, but irregularly scattered through the tunic. The tubes which have no cartilages are also deficient in glands; but their lining membrane is kept moist by a smear of mucus furni.shed by goljlet cells. The muscular tunic in these minute tubes, although scanty, is important, as it possesses the power of narrowing their calibre, and thus diminishing the size of the air-current^ In asthma the exaggeration of the normal action of this coat is responsible for the difficulty in breathing. MINUTE ANATOMY OF THE LUNGS. Upon the walls of the minute bronchioles little bulges appear, at first rarely, but with increasing frequency as the distal end of the tube is approached. Finally the bronchium widens out and terminates in an irregular chamber, the sides and blind end of which are closely set with these little protrusions, and we have the ultimate and essential part of the respiratory apparatus—an infundi- bulum. The minute blebs on the tubes seem to be the result of an effort of nature to form an infundibulum before all of the necessary conditions are favor- able. Again and again the attempt is made, always with greater results, and at last the whole remainder of the tube undergoes the transformation. The pouches are the alveoli (air-sacs, air-vesicles, air-cells). The infundibula are not always funnel-shaped, as the name implies, but are often very irregular in form. Structure of an Infundibulum (Fig. 818).—The framework of an infundibulum