199 GENERAL MORPHOLOGY OF THE SKULL. strictions. Through the hirgest and most posterior of these the lateral sinus passes into the iutei'nal jugular vein, and a small meningeal branch of the ascend- ing pharyngeal artery ascends ; the middle compartment transmits the glosso- pharyngeal, vagus, and spinal accessory nerves, and the anterior (sometimes completely separated) transmits the inferior petrosal sinus. General Morphology of the Skull. The cranial nerves pass through the skull in foramina occupying sutures or indicating points of union of two or more ossific centres. The foramen rotun- dura is the only exception to this rule in the skull, and this is probably a separated segment of the sphenoidal fissure. The division into primary foramina, or those where the nerves pass through the dura (or original brain-case), and second- ary foramina, Avhich are bony tunnels or canals not found in simpler skulls, though interesting, is not of sufficient importance f(jr further description here. The remarkable constancy of the relation of the nerve foramina to the osseous elements has, with other focts, led to tlie conception of the vertebrate theory of the skull, which supposes that the skull is made up of a series of altered vertebrae, the neural arches of which have become greatly expanded to enclose the brain. \ Among the facts leading to this theory is the apparent construction of the skull in I three parts: 1, the central or basilar, prolonging forward the vertebral axis ] around and beyond the end of the notochord in the cranio-facial axis'; 2, the 1 siiperiar arches, three ^ in number, enclosing the brain ; 3, an equal number of inferior arches^ surrounding the visceral cavity, as represented by the nose, mouth, and pharynx. But, although from analogy we may imagine that the primitive human skull was segmented like the vertebral axis, there is no evidence of this, and for a number of other reasons the division of the head into vertebral segments is untrustworthy and fanciful. In the development of the skull three stages may be recognized : 1, the mcin- branous stage, in which the brain is enclosed in a membrane representing the dura of the adult; 2, the chondral star/e, in which the base and lower parts of the sides of the brain-case become cartilaginous, leaving the sides and roof mem- branous ; 3, the osseous stage, in which both cartilage and membrane become ossified from a large number of ossific centres, which first appear in the mem- brane. Along the sides and in front sense-capsules become invaginated, and indent the skull-wall in the ears, eyes, and nose. Some of the bojies of the skull jare developed wholly, others partly, in the basal cartilage and its forward pro- longation, the cartilaginous nasal capsule, or in the cartilaginous visceral arches ; while some are developed wholly, others partly, in the membrane of the cranial vault, in that around the nasal capsule (forming the greater part of the upper face), and in that connected with the visceral arches. The human skull, as compared with the skulls of lower vertebrates, is charac- terized by—1, its enormous lirain-space and the corresponding expansion of the bones of the cranial vault; 2, the jiroportionally smaller development of the lace, and especially of the jaws (bringing the face under the front of the cranium); 3, its being balanced and sup])orted on the vertebral column (adapting it to the 3rect position) by a sudden bend in the vertebro-cranial axis, and a great posterior levelopment of the cranium, bringing the occipito-vertebral articulation at the ;entre of gravity of the skull; 4, the downward opening of the nostrils and ke diminished size of the nasal fossa?, bringing the orbits nearer together, so as ' This is drawn from the basion to tlie anterior extremity of the sphenoid, and thence to the end f the anterior nasal spine (subnasal point), forming an angle, the cranio-facial. angle. ^ These consist of—1, the squamosal part of the occipital bone ; 2, the great wings of the sphe- oid, the squamosals of the temporal bones, and the parietals ; 3, the small wings of the sphenoid jnd tlie frontal bone. ' These include in the first arch the pterygoids, the palate, and the maxillary bones ; in the Jcond, the mandible, the spheno-mandibular ligament, and the malleus of the ear ; in tlie third, 16 styloid process, the liyoid bone, and tlie stylo-hyoid ligaments, plus the incus, and perhaps part f the malleus of the ear.