664 THE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SENSES. ACCESSORY CARTILAGES ( r The Nasal Cartilages. At least two-thirds of the facial portion of the nose, and one-third of its sep- tnm have a framework of cartilage. Beginning with the carfildf/c nj tlic septum (Fig. 710), the mesial plate is quadrilateral in form, comjileting the nasal septum. It articulates above with the nasal bones, behind with the vertical plate of the ethmoid, postero-inferiorly with the vomer, and nasal spine of the maxillae, and antero-inferiorly with the septal portion of both lower lateral cartilages. In the foetus, and occasionally in the adult, it sends a long limb or processus podc/-ior into the ethmo-vomerine suture. The upper lateral cartilages (Fig. 711) are two lateral Avings of the septal cartilage, which bend over to form part of the sides of the nose. They are triangular in shape, continuous with the septal cartilage in the middle line above, but separated from it below by a fissure, and articulate pt)Steriorly with the free margins of tlie nasal bone and nasal processes of the maxillfe, small islets of cartilage sometimes intervening (car- tilagines epactiles). Inferiorly they articu- late with the lower lateral cartilages. Each loirer lateral cartilage consists of two plates joined at an acute angle along the dorsum of the nose. The mesial plate is placed in apposition with its fellow to form the antero-inferior angle of the septum and part of the colnmna, a deep groove separating them in the middle line in front, while above they articulate with the cartilage of the septum. The lateral plate forms the lower part of the side of the nose, articulating above with the upper lateral car- tilage, and posteriorly with the superior max- illa, two or three separate cartilages {udiior or quadrate cartilages) being placed in the fibrous tissue which joins them. The lateral cartil- ages keep the anterior nares expanded. The ala contains no cartilage, but consists of skin and fibrous tissue only. Tough fibrous tissue fills in the interstices of this frame- work, and is continuous with periosteum and perichondrium. Two small strips of cartilage, not always separate from the septal cartilage, are interposed between the latter and the vomer. They enclose the organ of Jacobson, and are rela- tively large in the foetus and in animals in whom the organ of Jacobson is well developed. THE NASAL FOSS-S. The nasal fossce (Figs. 712, 713) have a very different appearance as seen with their mucous covering from that of their l)ony framework as described in the sec- tion on osteology. This difference is mainly due to the thickness of the mucous membrane, the complete closure of nervous or vascttlar foramina, and the narrow- ing of those openings which conduct to the air sinuses. The upper part of each fossa, which corresponds in extent to the superior turbinate, is narrowed above at the roof, expanded below. It is the only part of the fossa which possesses the olfactory function. Below this the walls are nearly parallel. The anterior part of the fossa is unljroken by irregularities, and forms an expanded vestibule, into which the anterior aperture or nostril leads. Behind this each fossa has three awning-like processes projecting from its outer Avail, formed by the turbinate Ijones, which, when covered with mucous membrane, nearly meet the septum. Thus three passages are formed. The wferior meatus is horizontal, lies along the floor half covered by the inferior turbinate, and extends from the vestilnile to the pharynx. The middle meatus is overhung by Fig. 711.—Front view of the .skeleton of the nose. The upper lateral cartilage is labelled "lateral cart.," the lower, "alar cart." (Testut.)