465 THE VEINS. jugular veins. Each sinus passes at first nearly horizontally outward, with a slight convexity upward, in the groove on the occij^ital bone and the dorso-infe- rior angle of the parietal bone, along the attachment of the tentorium cerebelli. Thence it curves dosvnward and inward in the groove on the inner surface of the mastoid, leaving the tentorium after receiving the superior petrosal sinus (and, when present, the petro-squamous sinus). Finally it curves forward onto the jugular process of the occipital bone to the jugular foramen. That part of the sinus on the mastoid bone and the jugular process of the occipital is called the sigmoid sinus, fi'ora its S-shaped course. This pai't is semicylindrical in shape, communicates with the occipital sinus through the marginal sinus, and with the occipital and vertebral veins through the mastoid and posterior condylar foramina. The latei'al sinus receives veins from the temporal lobe of the brain, from the upper and lower surfaces of the cerebellum, and from the medulla, pons, and diploe. The right lateral sinus is considerably larger than the left, except in cases where the superior longitudinal sinus is continued into the left sinus. The jwsition of the lateral sinus may be represented on the exterior of the skull by a line curved slightly upward fr(jm the external occipital protuberance to OINAL SINUS Fig. 497.—Sinuses of the dura at the base of the cranium. (Testut.) the base of the mastoid process, and thence its sigmoid portion bends downward and inward toward the tip of the process, making a forward bend or knee which extends to within half an inch or less of the upper part of the bony external auditory meatus. The Occipital Sinus ascends mesially, along the line of attachment of the falx cerebelli to the occij)ital bone, from the foramen magnum in front to the torcular behind. Its tributaries pass around one or both sides of the foramen magnum, as marginal sinuses, one or both of which communicate with the lower end of the 30