OSSEOUS TISSUES. 5r) exist by riveting them together ; and they certainly make the attachment of the pei'iosteiim tirmer by giving it a more than superficial hold. Tendons, when attached to bone, are ]irolonged into it as perforating fibres. A delicate, longitudinal sliver of bone is seen to have minute openings, which Fig. a.—a, transverse section of a long bone, natural size ; B, the dark part of A, magnified 20 diameters. Haversian systems of different sizes are seen, with canals, lamellEe, and lacunio. The enlargement is not suffi- cient to show canaliculi. At 6 is a portion of the cancellated tissue. (Peaslee.) represent the tracks of canaliculi; and, if the flake is superficial in origin, larger holes also appear wherein have lain the perforating fibres. Between the apertures is a very fine reticulum of fibrilhe, showing the essentially fibrous character of the tissue and its consequent homology with ordinary connective tissue. Marrow fills the cavity of the shaft of the bone and extends into the intei'spaces of the cancellous portion. Its elements are supported on an areolar network, and it is extremely vas- cular, especially in the sjjongy bone, where, on account of the great numl>er and size of the vessels, its color is red. In the shaft of an adult bone the marrow has been mostly changed into adipose tissue, and is yellow. In the mar- row are multitudes of cells, like those of fibrous tissue, and they are called marroiv-cells. There are also great, irregular masses, with many nu- clei—giant-ccUs. The marrow and the contents of the Haversian canals are practically identi- cal ; indeed, they are continuous one with the other, and the comparison of the marrow and its encircling lamellje with the Haversian canal and its surrounding lamellae is not fanciful. From what has been said, it will be under- stood that osseous tissue consists of cells, fibres, and an interstitial substance, which is saturated with lime salts ; and, consequently, that the feature in which Fig. 45.—Long;itudinal section of compact osseous tissue, greatly magnified. The Ha- versian canals are cut lengthwise. The dots in the canals are the openings of canaliculi. (Testut.) i