760 THE ORGANS OF RESPIRATION. is very thin, transparent, and composed fibrous tissue, the yellow variety being conspicuous, and forming a delicate network. A few smooth m uscular fibres are Fig. 818.—Diagram of a lobule of tlie lung. A bronchiole is seen clividin;; into two branches, one of which runs upward and ends in the lobule. In the lobule are four groups of infiindibula. At the left are two infun- dibula the alveoli of which present their outer surfaces. Next are three infundibula in vertical section, the alveoli of each opening into the common passageway. Upon the ultimate bronchiole of this group are alveoli. In tlie next group the first infuudibulum shows a pulmonary arteriole surrounding the opening of each alveo- lus, and the second gives the same with tlie addition of the close capillary network in the wall of each alveolus. The same arrangement of vessels is seen in the alveolus upon the bronchiole of this group. Around the fourtli gri iup is a deep deposit of pigment, such as occurs in old age, and in the lungs of those who inhale coal- dust ami tlie like. On the bronchiole lies a branch of the pulmonary artery (blue), bringing blood to tlie infinidibula for aeration. It also supplies nourishing blood to tlie tubes arid other structures within the lobule. Beginning between tlie iiifundibula are the radicle.s of the i>uhii(inary vein (red), a root of which lies upon the bronchiole. The bnmchial artery is shuwn as a small vessel bringing nutrii nt blood to the bronchiole (outside of the lobule), the artery and vein, iind all i if the structures between and arciund the lobule. No attempt is made to show the sustentacular tissue u hicli ticeupies the spaces within and around the lobule. (F. H. G.) found between the air-vesicles. Next to this wall is a dense network of capil- laries, the spaces between Avhich are not as wide as the vessels themselves. The lining of an infundibulum and its air-vesicles is a delicate epithelium, which is directly continuous with that of the mucosa of the tubes. It is chiefly