126 THE BONES. but that of the atlas is dissociated from its neural arch and joined to the body of the axis as the odontoid process. The anterior arch of the atlas probal)ly belongs to a series of hypophyses or subvertcbral wedge-bones (found in lizards, etc.). Nothing need be said of the neural arches and spines, except that they are incom- plete or wanting in the lower sacral and coccygeal regions. The articular processes are not morphologically im])ortant ; but the upper three are not homologous with other articular processes, but rather with the lateral parts of the bodies formed by the neural arches. The transverse processes, so called, present more difficulty as well as interest. We find two transversely directed processes—a ventral or costal process and a dorsal or transverse process proper. They present themselves in the simplest form in the thoracic region, where the ventral or costal prcjcess is a separate rib, which by articulation with the transverse process encloses an arte- rial foramen, tlie costo-transverse. This foramen is seen also in the cervical region, where, however, the costal processes are ankylosed with the transverse processes and bodies, except when, in the low^er cervical vertebrse, they form separate cervical ribs. In the lumbar region the costo-transverse foramen is only indicated by a group of holes at the base of and between the transverse process and the accessory tubercle. The latter represents the tip of the su])pressed dor- sally situated transverse process, while the former rejiresents a costal proeess, and in the first lumbar sometimes exists as a separate lumbar rib. In the upper three or true sacral vertebraj the large ventral costal processes and the dorsal trans- verse processes unite to form the lateral masses which articulate with the hip- bones by means of their costal parts. The mammillary processes (best seen in the lumbar and lower thoracic regions) are rudiments of the much-elongated articular processes in some animals, as the dog, etc. THE THORAX. Besides the thoracic vertebrae already described, the skeleton of the thorax (" breast-plate ") consists of the sternum, ribs, and costal cartilages. INTERCLAVICULAR NOTCH FOR ARTICULATION OF CLAVICLE THE STERNUM. The sternum or breast-bone (Fig. 150) is a long, thin, flat bone, situated sub- cutaneously in the middle of the ventral wall of the tliorax. It is connected with the thoracic part of the vertebral axis by the cartilages of the first seven ribs on each side, and, through the attach- ment of the clavicle, it connects the shoulder- girdle and the upper extremity to the vertebral axis. It lies obliquely, so that its lower end is farther forward than the upper. The np])er end corresponds to the lower border of the second, the lower end to the middle of the ninth, thoracic vertebra. It consists of three parts, derived from six original segments. The first segment, or upper part, remains separate through life as the manu- brium ("handle") or pre-sternum, united by fibro-cartilage to the succeeding four segments which form the e/lndiolus ("little sword") or bodt/ (meso-sternnm). The sixth or lower seg- ment, forming the xiphoid or ensiform (" sword- sternum, ventral \\\^q ") process (nieta-sternuni), remains cartilagin- ous and distinct to advanced age, when it may ossify in whole or in part, and ankylose with the body. It is usually bent, and 150.-The (Testut.)