234 THE A BTICULA TIONS. membrane of these joints has blended into one. The fihroits capsule of the knee is strengthened in places by strong bands derived from the surrounding tendons, closely adherent to its outer surface, and known as the external (superficial) set of ligaments. 1. The internal lateral ligament is a long, flat, strong band which extends from the internal tuberosity of the femur (close to the adductor magnus ten- don, of which it was originally a con- tinuation) to the inner surface and border of the tibia, descending below the level of the tubercle. Blended above and internally with the fibro- cartilage and capsule, it is separated from the latter below, and bridges over part of the semimembranosus tendon and the inferior internal ar- ticular vessels. Superficially, it is separated l)y a bursa from the ten- dons of the sartorius, gracilis, and sernitendinosus. 2. The external lateral ligament extends downward and slightly back- ward as a rounded cord from the ex- ternal tuberosity of the femur to the middle of the outer surface of the head of the fibula. It crosses super- ficially over the popliteus tendon and the external inferior articular vessels, and is separated by a bursa from the biceps tendon, which splits to em- brace it. It is continuous below with the origin of the peroneus Ion- femoral origin. A little behind this and defined sho)i or posterior external ANTERIOR CRU- CIAL LIGAMENT POSTERIOR CRU- CIAL LIGAMENT Fig. 252.—Knee-joint in sagittal section. (Testut.) gus, of which it represents the detached ligament is the broader but less constant lateral ligament, which extends from the external condyle of the femur, in con nection "with the external gastrocnemius tendon, to the styloid process of the fibula. It blends with, and is really a portion of, the posterior ligament. Both internal and external lateral ligaments are situated behind the centre of the joint. 3. The posterior ligament proper is a strong flat band which ascends obliquely upward and outAvard as an expansion from the semimembranosus tendon, from the back of the inner tuberosity of the tibia, to the external condyle of the femur, joining the outer head of the gastrocnemius. The rest of the so-called posterior ligament underlies this oblique portion, and is a part of the capsule which occupies the interval between the lateral ligaments behind. It is a broad membrane com- posed of nearly vertical bundles of fibres, which pass from the upper margins of the intercondylar notch and of the articular surfaces of the femur to the dorsal margin of the head of the tibia. 4. The ligamentum patellce is the strong, flat infrapatellar tendon of the quadri- ceps extensor, extending from the apex and lower border of the patella to the lower part of the tubercle of the tibia (where it descends lower on the outer side). A synovial bursa separates the ligament from the upper part of the tubercle, above which a mass of fat separates it from the synovial membrane. 5. The capsular ligament is seen only in the intervals between the above liga- ments. Behind it is thickened to form most of the posterior ligament, in front it is wanting beneath the patella and its tendons, between which and the lateral ligaments it is strengthened by the fascia lata and the lateral fibrous ex])ansions of the quadriceps extensor tendon. These expansions, passing down from the vasti