THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. 400 Variations.—The internal maxillary in rare cases is given off as a branch from the facial; the number of branches varies considerably, because very often two or more arise by a common trunk from the artery. Surgical Anatomy.—The main trunk of the vessel is deeply situated, but may be injured in penetrating wounds of the face. Ligation of the vessel would be difficult, and that of the external carotid would be preferable. Two of the branches of the internal maxillary are of special surgical interest, the middle meningeal artery and the infraorbital artery. The middle meningeal is often injured in cases of fracture of the skull ; the artery is situated between the bone and dura, and pressure-symptoms from rupture of this vessel are often character- istic, coming on slowly after an injury. The vessel can be exposed by making an Fig. 450.—Diagram of the internal maxillary artery and its branches. opening in the skull, the centre of which should be a point an inch and a half behind the external angular process of the frontal bone. In the Hartley operation for removal of the Gasserian ganglion the position of this vessel should be care- fully studied. The infraorbital artery is sometimes injured in removing the second divi.sion of the iifth pair of nerves back as far as Meckel's ganglion; the blood in such a case might pass into the antrum of Highmore and from this into the nasal cavities. Such hemorrhage could be controlled by plugging the anterior and i^ostcrior nares. Branches.—From the first or mnxillary portion of the vessel are given off the tympanic, the middle meningeal, the small meningeal, and the inferior dental arteries. The tymponic passes through the Glaserian fissure to the tymjianum, which it aids in supplying ; it gives off bi'anches also to the membrana tympani. The middle meningeal enters the skull through the foramen spinosum, occupies a groove in the bon^ of the middle fossa at the base of the skull, winds upward and outward, and divides into an anterior and posterior branch. These branches groove the inner surface of the bone, running between the bone and the dura, and furnish the principal arterial supply of the latter. The i<mall meningeal artery passes through the foramen ovale into the cranial cavity, and supplies the Gasserian ganglion and contiguous dura. The inferior dental is a large branch which passes downward to the inferior dental foramen, which it enters with the inferior dental nerve, running forward in the inferior dental canal to supply the inferior maxilla and teeth. Before entering the inferior dental foramen the artery gives off the mylohyoid branch, which is distributed to the mylohyoid muscle, and occupies the mylohyoid groove on the internal surface of the mandi- ble. The artery gives off" branches to each tooth, and opposite the mental fora- men a mental branch, which passes forward to supply the structures of the chin.