EMBRYOLOGY. 88 From or in connection with the branchial arches or clefts a number of struc- tures develop, some of which may be considered here. From the epithelium of the fourth pair of clefts two thickenings develop, and subsequently fuse together, the single mass so formed growing backward toward tlic pei-icardium, separating from the clefts, and enlarging by branching at its posterior end. It forms the thymus gland, whose epithelial anlage becomes early infiltrated with lymphatic tissue, and which, subsequent to the second year after birth, begins to undergo degenerative changes. The thyroid gland arises partly from tlie last j^air of clefts as paired hollow evaginations, and partly from a median evagination of the floor of the pharynx in the vicinity of the second branchial arch. These anlagen early fuse together, and the gland usually loses all connection with the jiharynx, the foramen caecum at the base of the tongue representing, however, the place of the origin of the median anlage. The tongue is, embryologically, partly a product of the pharyngeal region, and arises from two anlagen. Its anterior portion arises as a thickening of the floor of the oral cavity, its back portion, however, developing as a pair of thickenings situated in the vicinity of the second and third branchial arches. These thicken- ings extend forward and outward, forming a V-shaped mass, M'hich encloses in front the posterior end of the anterior anlage. The junction of the two anlagen is indicated in the adult by the V-shaped groove in which the circunivallate papillae are situated, the foramen ciecum, already referi-ed to in connection with the thyroid gland, lying at the apex of the groove. The Trachea and Lungs. Below, the pharynx communicates with the tubular oesophagus, and on the inner surface of the upper part of this there early appears a longitudinal groove, from the lower end of which two pouch-like outgrowths develop. As soon as these begin to foi'm the groove begins to be constricted from below upward from the oesophagus, and becomes the trachea and larynx, the constriction not contin- uing to complete separation, so that the larynx communicates above with the pharynx. In the connective tissue of the walls of the trachea cartilaginous rings develop, the up^^ermost of which form the cricoid and arytenoid cartilages of the larynx, the thyroid cartilage being produced by the fusion of the ventral ends of two pairs of cartilaginous bars which are primarily develoj^ed in the mesoderm of the fourth and filth branchial arches. The pouch-like outgrowths are the anlagen of the lungs, and at an early stage become lobed, three lobes appearing in the right lung and two in the left. Secondary and tertiary saccula- tions later appear, and the complicated structure of the adult lung is acquired. It is to be noted that the epithelium of the lungs, trachea, and larynx is of endodermal origin. The Intestine and Mesenteries. From that portion of the primitive intestine whieli succeeds the oesophagus, the stomach and intestines, together with the liver and pancreas, develop. Of the two structures which in early embryonic life are connected with it, the allan- tois early separates, its intra-eml^ryonic portion persisting as the urinary bladder and the urachus, while the stalk of the umbilical vesicle retains its connection until after birth, the intra-embrj^onic portion of it occasionally persisting even into adult life as a more or less pronounced diverticulum of the lower part of the small intestine, known as Meckel's diverticulum. At first the intestine is a simple straight tube attached to the dorsal wall of the abdominal cavity by a dorsal mesentery, formed by the reflection over it of the peritoneal lining of the alxlominal cadom. Its upper portion is also attached to the anterior wall of the abdomen by a ventral mesentery, wliose lower border is falciform in shape, and is attached to the abdominal wall at the umbilicus. This simple arrangement, however, soon disappears, as the intestine,