THE ARTICULATIONS. 226 8. The Carpo-metacarpal and Intermetacarpal Articulations. The proximal ends of the inner four metacarpal bones are united to the inner three bones of the lower row of the carpus by dorsal and ]mlmar ligaments. Of the dorsal ligaments the second and third metacarpals receive two or three each, the fourth two, and the fifth one. The latter is continuous internally with the palmar ligament, forming a 2>artial capsule between the unciform and the fifth metacarpal, open externally. The palmar ligaments are weaker and less defined; Fig. 216.—Ligaments of the carpus, front view. (Testut.) the third metacarpal receives three, the others one each. An interosseous liga- ment also connects the contiguous lower angles of the os magnum and the unciform with the adjacent surfaces of the third and fourth metacarpals, occasionally shut- ting otf the synovial sac between the inner two metacarpals and the unciform from the common synovial sac, which is continuous witli that of the carpal joints. A strong band from the trapezium to the outer aspect of the base of the second metacarpal helps to close the radial side of the joint of the latter. The bases of the inner four metacarpal bones are bound together by transverse, palmar, dorsal and interosseous ligaments. Their distal ends are united by trans- verse fibres passing between the margins of the palmar or glenoid ligaments of the metacarpo-phalangeal joints, and forming the transverse metacarpal ligament, which limits the separation of the metacarpal bones. The first metacarpal bone is free from the others at both ends. In the ccrrpo-metacarpal joint of the thumb there is a thick, loose capsule, strongest dor.sally and externally, which connects the margins of the articular surfaces of the trapezium and the first metacarpal. It is lined by a separate synovicd membrane. Movements of a similar nature occur in the radio-carpal and medio-carpcd joints. These movements are flexion and extension, abduction and adduction, and circumduction. Extension is more free than flexion in the radio-carpal joint, owing to the greater extent of the carpal articular surfaces dorsally than ventrally ; but flexion is more free than extension at the medio-carpal and carpo-metacarpal joints, and it is the more free of the two motions in the wrist as a whole. Abduction and adduction, on an antero-posterior axis, occur principally at the radio-carpal joint. Adduction is much the more free, for the ulna does not extend as low as the radius, and does not help the external lateral ligament to check adduction as the radius does the internal lateral ligament to check abduction. The lack of rota- tion in the wrist is compensated for by the pronation and supination of the fore-