THE ARTICULATIONS BETWEEN THE ATLAS, AJ^IS, ETC. 209 aspect thin bundles of fibres pass upward and downward to the cranial aspect of the anterior border of the foramen magnum, and to the dorsum of the body of the axis respectively. These Avith the transverse portion form a cross, hence the name crucial Iigainenf, sometimes applied to the grouj). Two other ligaments unite the axis and atlas. The anterior aflanto-axia/ ligament is a thin membrane between the ventral arch of the atlas and the front of the body of the axis, rep- FiG. 225.—Sagittal section of the joints between the occipital bone and the atlas and axis. Testut.) esenting the anterior common ligament, whose direct upward continuation is leen as a median cord-like thickening of the ligament attached to the ventral 'ibercle of the atlas. The posterior atlanto-axial ligament represents the liga- -enta subflava, but has little ela.stic ti.ssue. It loosely connects the dorsal arch it the atlas and the laminte of the axis, and is perforated on each side by the l^nd cervical nerves. B. Ligaments between tlie Axis and the Occipital Bone fFigs. 228, 229).— \ ae orx-ipifo-ajrial or rx-cipit'x-ervical ligament is the upper end of the posterior >mmon ligament extending from the third and second cer^'ical vertebrae to 16 basilar groove of the occipital bone. Some of its fibres pass over the axis ithout attachment, giving rise to two layers, of which the hind one may be sdgnated the posterior, and the forward one the middle, occipito-axial ligament. he lateral odontoid, alar, or check ligament-i are two strong fibrous cords, which ctend from the sides of the summit of the odontoid process transversely out- ard to the rough impression on the inner side of each occipital condyle. They ; at a little higher level than the transverse ligament. Each is made tense by liming the head to the opposite side. The middle odontoid or m-spensory ligq- 'nt (anterior occipito-axial ligament) is a slender, median, fibrous band connect- 2 the apex of the odontoid and the fore part of the margin of the foramen agnum. It is relaxed bv flexion, tightened bv extension. 14