THE MOUTH. 709 and run to the di)rsum and margin, lamina. It dimini.shos the width and Tlie vertical lingualis is composed where they are inserted into the fibrous increases the length of the oroan. of small fasciculi, which course from the dorsum to the under surface, curving with their concavity outward. Its fibres are interlaced with tliose of the transverse lingualis. It broadens and flattens the tongue. The Extrinsic Muscles of the Tongue. The extrinsic muscles of the tongue are the genioglossus, the hyoglossus, the styloglossus, and the chondroglossus. To this list is sometimes added the pala- toglossus ; but it seems better to include this with the muscles of the soft palate, already described. Genioglossus (Fig. 759) (" the chin-tongue muscle ").—Synonym, geniohyo- glossus, " the chin-hyoid-tongue muscle." Situation, in the middle line of the tongue. Origin, the upper genial tubercle. Direction, divergent—backward, upward, and to all points between. Insertion, the hyoid bone and the whole length of the tongue in and at the sides of the mid line. Action: the back part thrusts the tongue forward ; the front part retracts the tip of the tongue ; the part between the apex and the base depresses the mid line, thus forming a gutter. Nerve, the hypoglossal. Hyoglossus (Figs. 759, 760) ("the hyoid-tongue muscle").—Situation, between the hyoid and the side of the tongue. Origin, the great cornu and the body of the hyoid. Direction, upward and forward. Insertion, the side and dor- sum of the tongue, blending with the styloglossus. Action, retraction and de])res- sion of the tongue. Nerve, the hypoglossal. Styloglossus (Figs. 759, 760) (" the styloid-process-tongue muscle").—Situa- tion, between the side of the base of the skull and the side of the tongue, outside of the pharynx. Origin, the front of the styloid process of the temjioral bone, and the stylomandibular ligament. Direction, forward, downward, and a little inward. Insertion, the whole length of the side and under part of the tongue. Its fibres blend with those of the hyoglossus and palatoglossus. Action : it draws the tongue backward, and lifts its base. Nerve, the hypoglossal.