472 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTE3I. The Left Lower or Small Azygos Vein {reiui hemiazygos, vena azj/gos minor) commences in the abdomen on tlie left side, in a manner similar to the great azygos on the right side, the branch from tlie renal vein being more constant, and sometimes the principal source. It ascends through the left cms of the dia- ])hragm, and in the posterior mediastinum it lies in front of the left intercostal arteries as far as the eighth thoracic vertebra, where it crosses beneath the thoracic aorta and thoracic duct to join the great azygos vein. Trihntariex.—It receives (1) the left subcostal vein below the diaphragm ; and above it (2) the lower four left intercostal veins ; (3) the left upper azygos (sometimes) ; and some small (4) oesophageal; and (5) mediastinal veins. The Left Upper Azygos Vein (vena hemiazygos accessoria) varies in size with that of tlie left superior intercostal and the left lower azygos veins, between wliicli it is ])laced, receiving two or three intercostal veins. It connects above with tlie superior intercostal vein, and opens below into the left lower azygos vein, or, crossing the sixth or seventh thoracic vertebra, ends in the great azygos vein. It often receives the left bronchial vein. It is quite variable and often absent, when its radicles, the fifth, sixth, and seventh intercostal veins, open directly into the great azygos vein. The Intercostal Veins accomjiany the arteries as a single trunk, lying above til em. They receive large dorsal branches from the muscles of the back, the dorsal spinal plexus, and the spinal canal. They are eleven in number, one for each intercostal space, the lowest thoracic vein being called the subcostal rein, from its position. They terminate variously in different subjects and on the two sides. (See azygos, superior intercostal, and vertebral veins.) The Bronchial Veins accompany the bronchial arteries, only part of whose blood they return, that distributed to the smaller bronchi entering the pulmonary veins. They pass out at the back of the root of the lung, and enter the upper end of the vena azygos major on the right side, and the left upper azygos or the left superior intercostal vein on the left side. Veins of the Spine (Figs. 502, 503). These form complicated plexuses, situated without and within the spinal canal and on the spinal cord, which communicate with one another and with the veins of the neck and trunk. They contain no valves and may be described in groups as follows : I. Extra-spinal Veins.—The Dorsal Spined Veins form a plexus over the lamiufe and adjacent processes of the vertebrte, where they receive tributaries from the skin and muscles of the back, the larger of which run forward along the interspinous ligaments. They communicate with the posterior longitudinal spinal veins by branches perforating the ligamenta subflava, and oj^en laterally into the vertebral or the dorsal bi'anches of the intercostal and lumbar veins, according to the region, by branches passing forward between the transverse processes. II. The Veins of the Vertebral Bodies (vencc basis verfebranim) occupy hori- zontal bony channels in the vertebral bodies and communicate with the veins in front of and at the sides of them. They open behind, through the large single or double foramen on the dorsal surface of the bodies of the vertebrae, into the transverse connecting branches of the anterior longitudinal spinal veins. III. Intra-spinal Veins.—(A) The 3Ieningo-rachiclian Veins are those within the spinal canal between the dura and the walls of the canal. The Anterior Longitvdinal Spinal Veins, large and plexiform, extend the entire length of the spinal canal behind the bodies of the vertebrte, one on either side of the posterior common ligament. Opposite the bodies of the vertebrje they are dilated and communicate M ith each other by transverse ti'unks, placed between the posterior common ligament and the body of each vertebra, which receive the veins of the vertebral bodies. Opposite the intervertebral discs they