ELEMENTA B Y TISS UES. 62 neighbors by an alirupt union, and form fasciculi and net- works (Fig. 59). The cardiac muscular tissue has a remark- ably abundant sujiply of blood- and lymph-vessels. THE NERVOUS TISSUES. Tissui<:s Essential to Sensation. The nervous apparatus is conveniently considered under two heads—the central ])ortion and the ])eri]>heral jtortion. The former comprises the brain and spinal cord, and is otherwise known as the cerebro-spinal axis; the latter in- cludes the cords which radiate from this axis, and also the ganglia (" knots ") upon these cords. In both the central and the perijiheral regions two kinds of tissue are recog- nized, which are distinguished by their color as grav and white. The white is much the more abundant in botli regions, but thei'c is a great deal more of the gray in the central than there is in the peripheral. Functionally regarded, the gray matter is that which receives impres- sions, retains, converts, and marshals them in various ways, and originates impulses : it is the part which feels, thinks, remembers, wills ; the white matter merely conveys impressions and impulses, connecting the gray matter with distant parts and associating one portion of it with another. The gray is cellular; the white is made up of fibres. Nerves consist of fibres of this kind, grouped together in bundles of small or large size. The gray ticrvous tissue is composed of cells, called verve-cells or ganglion- cells (Fig. 60). These vary greatly in shape and size in difterent parts, but they all have certain common features which are characteristic. They are granular, nucleated, usually pigmented, and have projections or processes which are called poles. At least one pole of a cell is prolonged as a nerve-fibre (Fig. 61), and thus it is seen that there is a struc- tural connection between the two kinds of nerve-tissue. The other processes of the cell—of which there may be many—radiate from its general mass, divide again and Fig. 59.—Cardiac mus- cular tissue, the cells uni- ted in a network. (Testut.) Fig. 60.—Nerve-cells. (Daltou.) Fig. 6].—Nerve cell. All of the processes are protoplas- mic except that marked a, which is the axis-cylinder pro- cess ; b indicates a clump of pigment-granules. (Gerlach.) again, and terminate in minute twigs, which mingle with, but do not become continuous with, corresponding ramifications from neighboring cells. These pro- cesses are called protoj>lasmic processes or dendrites (" tree-like "). A nerve- cell, with its dendrites, and the nerve-fibre which is continuous with the cell, constitute a neuron. The white nervous tissue (called white on account of the ap]iearance of a mass of it) is made up of fibres which vary in diameter and length, but have their