646 THE NERVES. ments to the vertebriie and aorta as they descend, the trnnks then piercing the cms of the diaphragm, and entering the npper angle of the seniihinar ganglion. It occasionally sends fibres to the suprarenal body and renal plexus. This nerve largely consists of niedullated fibres, some of which may be traced in the sympa- thetic cord till they join the third thoracic nerve. The small splanchnic nerve, rising from the ninth and tenth, or ninth, tenth, and eleventh ganglia, passes beneath the cms or internal arcuate ligament of the diaphragm, to the aortico-renal ganglion, and sometimes sends fil)res to the renal plexus. The least splanchnic nerve, from the last thoracic ganglion, descends beneath the internal arcuate ligament to the renal plexus. {Note.—It should be remembered that most of the white rami communicantes, which pass from the spinal cord to the sympathetic trunk, do so by the thoracic nerve; but that they do not by any means all end in thoracic ganglia. For example, the pupillo-motor fibres, vasomotor fibres of the head and neck, secretory fibres of the sulMuaxillary gland and accelerator fibres of the heart leave the sjjinal cord by upper thoracic nerves and ascend in the sympathetic trunk to form arborizations round the cells of the cervical ganglia. In the dog and cat the white rami communicantes from the thoracic nerves have been shown to contain, in addition to tlie above, vaso-constrictor fibres of the pulmonary vessels, and of the vessels of the fore and hind limbs, and secretory fibres to the sweat glands and pilo-motor fibres to the hair of both limbs, as well as viscero-inhibitory fibres to the stomach and intestines, and vasomotor nerves to the abdominal vessels.) The Lumbar Portion of the Gangliated Cord (Fig. 694). There are usually four lumbar ganglia, which lie in front of the vertebral bodies on the inner side of the psoas muscles, the left trunk and its ganglia being overlapped by the aorta, and the right by the inferior vena cava. The ganglia are generally connected somewhat irregularly by -white and gray rami communicantes with the lumbar nerves, Avhich reach the ganglia by passing beneath the fibrous arches of the psoas muscle. Efferent branches join the aortic and hypogastric plexuses, and small filaments pass to vertebrse and ligaments. (Note.—The lumbar sympathetic is connected with the lower limb, rectum, penis, bladder, uterus, and vas deferens, while the other abdominal viscera are connected through the solar plexus with the lower six thoracic nerves.) From these ganglia and the intervening meshwork are given off plexuses, which correspond in name and distribution to the upper branches of the abdominal aorta. Thus the diaphraffmafie or j^hrenic plexvsef^ spring from the upper part of the semi- lunar ganglia. They accompany the phrenic arteries, and are joined by the phrenic nerves. A ganglion is formed at their junction on the right side (want- ing on the left side) whence branches pass to the vena cava, suprarenal body, and hepatic plexus. Suprarenal plexuses accompany the arteries of the same name from the phrenic artery, aorta, and renal artery. They are thus deri-s-ed from the phrenic, solar and renal plexuses. They contain many minute ganglia. The renal pjlexxis springs from the aortico-renal ganglion, and solar and aortic plexuses, and receives the small splanchnic nerve. It accompanies the renal artery to the kidney substance, and gives branches to the suprarenal body, sper- matic plexus and ureter, and on the right side the vena cava. The spermatic plexus springs from the renal and aortic jilexuses and accom- panies the spermatic artery to the testis, receiving an accession from the pelvic sympathetic along the vas deferens. In the female it is represented by the ovarian plexus to the ovary and uterus. The cceliae plexus is large in accordance with the size and extensive distribu- tion of the cceliae axis. It gives off secondary plexuses corresponding in names