569 THE SECOND OB OPTIC NEB VE. which it pierces one-eighth iueh to the iunei- side of the optic axis. Its fibres then radiate in all directions over the anterior surface of the retina. As the nerve enters the orbit it receives an investment from the dura, which sends a layer also to blend with the periosteum. The pial, arachnoid, and dural sheaths remain distinct as far as the sclerotic, with which they blend, and well-marked subdural and subarachnoid spaces can be demonstrated. In the orbit the nerve is closely surrounded posteriorly by the recti muscles; but farther forward is separated from them by fatty tissue. The ciliary vessels and nerves surround it, especially above and below, the ophthalmic artery and nasal nerve cross over it Fig. 630.—Origin and relations of optic tract. Part of tlie base of the brain: temporal g>-ri drawn aside, pia removed. (W. Keiller.) from without inward, and the ciliary ganglion lies on its outer surface. It is pierced by the arteria centralis retinfe and its vein. In the chiasma (Fig. 631) a partial decus.sation takes place. The outer fibres do not decussate, but connect the outer half of the retina with the geniculate and quadrigeminal bodies of the same side ; the inner fibres decussate completely, connecting the inner half of the retina with these nuclei on the opposite .side. Thus, the right optic tract conveys fibres from the right halves of both retiuje to the right side of the brain, and the left behaves similarly. The lateral pcjrtions of the chiasma consist of uncrossed fibres, the central portion contains inter- crossed fibres from the nasal (inner) sides of both retinae. Besides these the posterior part of the chiasma is occupied by a band of fibres which, after partial interruption in the cells of the internal geniculate bodies, unite the inferior corjiora quadrigemina with each other. This is called Gudden's commissure, and appears to have nothing to do with sight. The fibres of the optic nerve commence as axis-cylinder processes of the large ganglionic cells of the retina, and end in branching processes round the cells of the external geniculate body, superior quadrigeminal body, and optic thalamus, which cells, therefore, form the nucleus of the optic nerve; thence fibres pass by the optic radiation to the cuneus in the occipital lobe of the cerebrum. Imper- fectly traced connections exist between the visual centres and the nuclei of the third, fourth, and sixth nerves. General View of the Nuclei of the Third to the Twelfth Cranial Nerves (Figs. 632, 633).—The nuclei of the third to the twelfth cranial nerves inclusive lie in the central gray matter of the brain from the level of the posterior commissure to that of the decussation of the pyramids, the nucleus of the spinal accessory,