833 THE UTERUS. represent the cremaster in tlie male. They help to attach the ligament to the pillars of the external ring and the pubic spine. A tube of ])eritoneum, repre- senting the processus vaginalis, accompanies the ligament into the inguinal canal. It sometimes remains pervious even in the adult, and is called the caudl of Nack. The utero-sacral ligaments are partly serous, partly of smooth muscular fibres. The serous portions are identical witli the folds of Douglas already described. They extend between the cervix and sides of the rectum, forming the lateral boundaries of the recto-vaginal pouch. The muscular fibres are continuous with the superficial muscular layer of the uterus and vagina. Running l)etween the layers of tlie folds of Douglas they serve to connect the cervix and vagina with the sacrum. The peritoneum at the bottom of the utero-vesical pouch is sometimes referred to as the anterior Ugameiit of the uterm, while that which floors the recto-vaginal pouch is called the recto-vaginal ligament. Minute Structure.—The uterus consists of three coats—serous, muscular, and raucous. The serous coat has already been described. The mtm-alar coat makes up the bulk of the uterine walls. It is dense and resisting, cuts with a grating sound, and is grayish on section. It is composed of smooth muscular fibres, intermingled with areolar tissue, vessels, and nerves. The arrangement of these fibres is very complex, but in the gravid uterus they may be divided into three layers, which are, however, not entirely independent. The mn,eons membrane lining the body of the uterus is intimately adherent to the internal muscular layer. It is pale and smooth, and presents the openings of numerous glands. Its external layer, or corium, is composed of embryonic con- nective tissue in which may be seen numerous round, spindle-shaped, or irregular cells. Lining this is a single, ciliated, columnar epithelium, the ciliary motion being from within outward. The ghtiids are of the tubular variety, bounded by a basement membrane, and lined by ciliated, columnar epithelium, continuous with that found on the free surface. They pass obliquely or take a tortuous course through the corium ; and their blind extremities, single, bifurcated, or even trifurcated, repose on tlie internal muscular layer, or penetrate between its fibres. The ciliary motion in the glands is toward the uterine cavity. The mucous membrane of the cervix differs from that of the body. It is firmer and thrown into numerous folds, the ridges of the arbor vitje already described. The corium has fewer cell-elements, but is richer in fibres. The epithelium in the upper part of the cervix is the same as that found in the body ; below, at the level of the external os or a little higher, it changes into a laminated epithelium, continuous with that which lines the vagina and covers the external surface of the os. The glands, tubular and racemose in type, are numerous and open between the ridges. They are lined in their deeper portions by gol)let cells, and jiroduce a thick alkaline mucus. Sometimes by the occlusion of their open- ings these glands become cystic ; they then appear as clear or yellowish vesicles, and are called the ovida. of Naboth. Vascular papilhe are found in the lower part of the cavity of the cervix, and over the outer surfiice of its intra-vaginal segment. In the latter situation there are no glands. Structural Modifications During Menstruation and Pregnancy.—In m^en sir nation the more important changes take ])lacc in the mucous membrane of the body, which increases in vascularity and becomes thickened. Following this there are disintegration and removal of the su]>erficial part of the membrane, the process beginning at the internal os and extending toward the fundus. Kegeneration, brought about by a proliferation of the colls whicii remain in the deeper portions of the glands, is rapid and com])lete. In these changes the cervix takes little or no part. In gestation the whole organ becomes immensely hypertro]>hied, increasing in weight from an ounce to a pound and a half or even more. The muscular fibres not only increase in size, but in the early months new ones are added. The mucous membrane is at first the seat of changes similar to those which occur in menstruation, but these proceed further, and later bring about the 5S