THE VEINS. 475 enters the pericardium, through which it passes for about half an inch, only partly invested by its serous layer, to open into the lower and back part of the right auricle, opposite the upper border of the ninth thoracic vertel^ra. In the abdomen the liver, pancreas, duodenum, mesentery, portal vein, and right spermatic (or ovarian) artery, lie in front of it ; the vertebne, right renal and lumbar arteries, and the right crus of the diaphragm, behind it. Tributaries.—The hepatic veim converge from the substance of the liver to the groove or canal occupied by the inferior vena cava, into which they empty in two or three trunks. The veins from the right and left lobes open so obliquely that the semilunar folds, presented at the lower border of their orifices, take the place of valves, which are otherwise wanting. These veins are of large size, and return the blood (jf the hepatic artery and the portal vein. The phrenic (or inferior phrenic) veins accompany the jjhrenic arteries. The right one opens directly into the vena cava just below the diaphragm, on the right side, while the left often joins the left suprarenal, or sometimes the left renal vein. The suprarenal veins.—One vein on each side returns all the blood sujDplied by the three suprarenal arteries. The right vein terminates in the vena cava, the left in the left renal or phrenic vein. The renal veins are large, short trunks, which run in front of the correspond- ing arteries from the hilum of the kidney to the vena cava, into which they empty nearly at right angles, the left a little above the right. The left renal vein is larger than the right, has to cross the aorta, which it does just below the origin of the superior mesenteric artery, after receiving the spermatic (or ovarian) vein, often the suprarenal vein, and sometimes the phrenic vein of the same side. Rudimentary valves are found, especially on the left side. The shortness of the right renal vein should be remembered when dealing with the pedicle in nephrec- tomy. The spjermatic veins (Fig. 505) return the blood from the testicle and epi- didymis, from which they emerge dorsally, and, ascending to and through the inguinal canal, form a thick plexus (parnpiniforrn (" tendril-shaped ") p/f.nfs) in front of the vas deferens and the spermatic artery. On entering the abdomen through the internal alxlominal ring the plexus merges into two or three veins, which accompany the spermatic artery beneath the peritoneum, on the psoas mus- cle and across the ureter. In their course they join to form a single trunk, which opens into the vena cava on the right side, and on the left side into the renal vein, which it meets at a right angle. Imperfect valves are found in the pam- piniform plexuses, but the valve described at the termination of the vein may be absent in the vein of the left side, which moreover is usually slightly longer than the right vein and passes beneath the sigmoid colon, where it may be subjected to pressure. The above diffei'ences combined arc held to account for the greater frequency of varicocele on the left side. A few small veins ascend from the testicle behind the spermatic artery and the vas deferens and join the epigastric veins above. They are commonly not ligated in the operation for varicocele. The ovarian veins are analogous to the spermatic veins and terminate in the same manner. The ovarian or pampiniform, plexus, in which they begin, lies near the ovary between the layers of the broad ligament, and communicates freely with the uterine plexus, as well as with the ovarian bulb, a plexus of fine veins at the hilum of the ovary. They follow the course of the ovarian arteries. The lumbar veins, usually four in number on each side, accompany the lumbar arteries. They are formed by the union of ventral branches from the alidominal walls, where they communicate with the epigastric and internal mammary veins, and dorsal branches, which receive tributaries from the muscles of the back and the veins of the spine. The lumbar veins pass forward uj)on the bodies of the vertebrfe beneath the psoas muscle, and on the left side beneath the aorta, to empty into the back of the vena cava. In front of the transverse processes and