824 THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. muscular layer of the uterus. The tubo-ovarian Uriament, or ovarian fimbria, connects the superior extremity of the ovary with the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube. The mspensory ligament, also called the lumbo-ovarian liga- ment, or ligamentum infiindibulo-pelricum, is the upjier part of the external border of the broad ligament. Running downward from the brim of the pelvis, it is attached to the superior extremity of the ovary and carries between its folds the ovarian vessels and nerves. Direction.—Usually the ovaries assume a slightly ol)lique direction, running downward, inward, and a little forward, so tliat their long axes, if extended below, would meet in front of the uterus. Their direction, however, varies widely within normal lin\its, and is much influenced by the fact that their liga- ments are not only extensible, but two of them, the utero-ovarian and tubo- ovarian, take origin from movable points. Anotl.er important factor in deter- mining the direction of the ovary is the condition of the neighboring organs. When the uterus deviates from the median line, the ovary of the side to whicli the uterus turns is vertical ; while that of the op^josite side, its lower extremity pulled on by the utero-ovarian ligament, is nearly or quite horizontal. A full bladder or rectum, by changing the jiosition of the uterus, must also modify the direction of the ovary. Structure.—The ovary consists of a framework of stroma. Graafian follicles, and an epithelial covering continuous with but differing from the peritoneum. The stroma (" bed") is a connective tissue composed of abundant cells, white and yellow fibrous tissue, plain muscular fibres, blood-vessels, and nerves. Many of the cells ai'e s])indle-shaped, and are held by some anatomists to be cells of involuntary muscular tissue, while fithers regard them as connective-tissue cells. From the hilum tliere projects into the centre of the ovary a core made upwhollv of stroma and called the medullary mbstanee. It is very vascular and contains no Graafian follicles. From the periphery of this core numerous bands of stroma run toward the surface of the ovary, ci'ossing and intersecting each other in every direction. Arrived at the surface, these bands reunite to form beneath the epi- thelial covering a thin fibrous layer, the tunica albuginca ovarii, which bears, however, but a faint resemblance to the tunica albuginca of the testicle, and can- not be dissected from the subjacent parenchyma. Between the tunica albuginca and the medullary substance is a thin zone called the cortical layer. It is only slightly vascular, and contains in various stages of development the Graafian follicles. The epithelicd covering, composed of a single layer of columnar cells, reposes on the tunica albuginca, and is the remains of the germinal epithelium. The peritoneum, covered by flattened epithelial cells, is totally unlike this structure, which it joins at the level of the attached anterior border. Graafian Follicles (Fig. 892).—The Graafian follicles contain the ova, and are embedded in the meshes of tlie ovarian stroma. Their structure depends on the degree of maturity which they have attained, and will therefore be described in several stages. The smedlc.st follicles, varying in size from -g^-^^ to y^-Q of an inch in diameter, consist of a single layer of flattened or spindle-shaped cells, which closely invest a larger cell, the ovum. In the young child each ovary contains about thirty-six thousand follicles of this grade. In a second and more advanced stage the following structural changes are noted: (1) The surrounding stroma forms for the follicle a special wall, divisible into two lavers—an outer, fibrous layer (tunica fibrosa), which encloses the blood- trunks and lymphatic spaces of the follicle ; and an inner, vascular layer (tunica propria) composed of connective-tissue cells and a capillary plexus. (2) The spindle-shaped cells, which invested the ovum in the earlier stage, now become columnar and proliferate, making two layers, One of which lines the tunica propria, and is called the membrana granidosa, while the other invests the ovum and is known as the discus proligerus. (3) Between these two layers an albu- minous transjjarent liquid, the licpior folliculi, is developed ; and it crowds the