THE NERVES. 590 along the inner side of the restiform body and cuneate nucleus forming the a.sr(ii(Ui)f/ root. The fibres of this ascending root probably end in arborizations round the cells of the cuneate nucleus. The rest of the fil)res of the vestibular root pass dorsally to end in the internal anditori/ or (Jor.^(tl nucleus, which is a large group of cells corresponding in position to the tubercuhim acusticum, and lying close to the floor of the ventricle dorsomesially to the restiform bodv. This nerve is homologous with the dorsal root of a spinal nerve, and the gang- lion radicis cochlearis, spiral ganglion of the cochlea, and vestibular ganglion together represent an intervertebral ganglion. On emerging from the pons the two roots unite to form one trunk, again dividing at the bottom of the internal auditory meatus. The trunk runs U2)ward, outward, and forward round the middle cerebellar ])eduncle to the internal auditory meatus, where it becomes con- cave on its upper surface and lodges the facial nerve, ])ars intermedia, and internal auditoiy artery in the groove so formed. It is united to these sti'uctures by loose connective tissue, which contains no nerve-fibres. At the bottom of this canal it divides into an upper, vestibular division to the utricle and ampullae of the superior and external semicircular canals, and a lower, cochlear divisiem to the saccule, ampulla of the posterior semicircular canal, and cochlea. Ninth, Tenth, and Eleventh Nerves. Nuclei of the Ninth, Tenth, and Vagus-accessory Portion of the Eleventh Nerves. —The various origins, motor and sensory, of these three nerves being all con- tinuous columns or series of cells and fibres, they are best described together, the distinction between the nerves being a matter of higher or lower jioint of origin and ultimate distribution. The sensory michus is an elongated column of cells mainly corresponding in position to the inferior fovea and trigonum vagi (or ala cincrea) in the floor of the fourth ventricle. It extends the whole length of the oblongata. In the lower jiart it lies dorsally to the twelfth nucleus, and dorso-laterally to the central canal; but as the central canal opens out into the fourth ventricle, it is shifted so as to lie laterally to the nucleus of the twelfth nerve, and close to the floor of the ven- tricle. From it bundles of fibres pass ventro-laterally to emerge from the side of the oblongata, between the olivary and restiform bodies, or further down between the last named structure and the lateral column. Tlie U])pcr bundles form the sensory fibres of the glossopharyngeal nerve, the lower are grouped into the pneiimogastric and pars accessoria ad vaguni. The asGcndinfi vaf/o-f/lossopharj/in/eal root (funiculus solitarins, fasciculus rotundus) is a well-marked rounded bundle of fibres, Avhich ascends on the outer side of the sensory nucleus from the funiculus gracilis and gelatinous substance of Rolando. Its main connections seem to be with the funiculi graciles of l)oth sides and with the opposite fillet. It contributes fibres to the pneumogastric, but mainly emerges as the upper bundle of the glosso]iharyngeal nerve. The motor nucleus ( nucleus anibiguus) is a column of large multijiolar cells, undoubtedly rejiresenting part of the ventral horn of the spinal cord. It lies deeply in the formatio reticularis of the oblongata in line with the nucleus of the facial nerve. From it the motor njots of the three nerves under consideration pass in bundles, first dorsally toward the floor of the ventricle, and then outward and ventrally in line with the sensory bundles. Connection of the Vac/ns-accessory with the Twelfth Nnclens.—'J'hc involvement of the palate and vocal cords in bulbar paralysis appears to indicate that the motor fibres to these structures, which rawh them through the vagus-accessory, are derived from the nucleus of the twelfth nerve. Nucleus of the Spined Portion of the Eleventh Nerve.—The spinal portion of the spinal accessory is a jnirely motor nerve. It arises from a distinct column of cells in the ventral horn of the cervical spinal cord. From this bundles of nerve-fibres pass upward for a little way, then dorso-laterally through the gray