797 THE THYMUS. Frequently a slender, tapering process, called the pyramid (pyramidal process, middle lobe), runs upward to the hyoid between the lateral lobes, from one of I which (usually the left) or from the isthmus it arises. This is a part of the I remains of the thyro-glossal duct, mentioned above. The gland is commonly of a dark red color, and its iveight is an ounce or more. The thyroid body has a strong tunic of fibrous tissue, from the inner surface I of which traheculce are given off, incompletely dividing the parenchyma in^o irregular lobules. These lobules are composed of closed vesicles, which are the original, tubular acini of the gland, matured and altered by reason of the closure of their excretory ducts. The vesicles are of many shapes and various sizes, the largest not exceeding one twenty-fifth inch in diameter. They are lined with a single layer of short, columnar epithelial cells, and filled with a colloid fluid. They are held together by areolar tissue, in which course the vessels and nerves. The arteries of the gland are the superior thyroids, inferior thyroids, and occasionally the thyroidea ima. These vessels are of large size relatively to the volume of the gland, and make abundant anastomoses. The capillaries form a close plexus around the vesicles, and even penetrate between their epithelial cells. The veins are arranged in an intricate network on the surface of the gland, from I which the blood is collected by the superior, middle, and inferior thyroid veins. [ The Ijpnphatics begin in spaces about the vesicles, fjrm a plexus in the capsule of the gland, and empty into the deej) cervical nodes. Colloid matter, like that in the cavity of the vesicles, is found in the lymphatics. The nerve-supply is rather scanty, and is derived from the middle and inferior cervical ganglia of the sympathetic. Accessory thyroid glands of small size are occasionally found in this region. THE THYMUS. The thymus (Fig. 867) is a temporary organ, growing somewhat rapidly until it attains a considerable size, and then gradually dwindling until it is merely vestigial. It is situated in the anterior mediastinum and lower part of the neck, between Fig. 867.—The thymus, the sturniuu and costal rartihi;,'(_-> liaving been removed, (Testut,) the lungs, in front of the heart, the great vessels, and trachea, and reaching upward nearly to the thyroid. It appears at the end of the second month of