407 THE ARTERIES. clavian ; it passes upward to reach the vertebral opening in the costo-transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, and continues upward through the vertebral foramina of the cervical vertebra above; i-eaching the atlas it winds over the upper surface of the posterior arch in a groove or foramen behind the superior articular process, and passes into the cranial cavity through the foramen magnum ; the two vertebral arteries within the skull unite to form the basilar, which then breaks up into branches, which assist the internal carotid in supplying the ence- phalon. Variations.—The vertebral is sometimes a branch of the aortic arch ; sometimes a branch of the common carotid. Although as a rule it enters the vertebral foramen of the sixth cervical, it in some cases enters none below that of the fifth, or even the third. Surgical Anatomy (Fig. 453).—The ligation of the vertebral is a deep opera- tion, but can be readily done if the anatomical position of the vessel and the landmarks leading to it are understood. An incision is made along the inner border of the sterno-mastoid, beginning just above the sterno-clavicular articula- tion and extending upward for four or five inches. The skin, superficial fascia, platysma and deep fascia are divided; the carotid is drawn to the outer side, the Fig. 453.—Surgical relations of the facial, verteljral, and inferior thyroid arteries. (Kocher.) transverse process of the sixth cervical is sought, and below this point and between the scalenus anterior and the longus colli muscles the vertebral artery is found. The vessel may be approached by an incision of sufficient length made along the outer border of the sterno-cleido-mastoid, instead of along its inner border. In this case the muscle and deep vessels are drawn to the inner side. Branches.—The branches of the vertebral are divided into two sets ; those in the neck, and those in the cranium. The branches in the neck are the lateral spi- nal and the muscular. The spinal branches enter the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramina, and supply the membranes of the cord and the vertebrte. Muscular branches are distributed to the deep muscles of the neck. The branches in the cranium are the posterior meningeal, the po.sterior inferior cerebellar, and the spinal. The posterior meningeal branches are small vessels supplying the dura of the posterior fossa. The spinal arteries are divided into two sets, the anterior and posterior spinal. The anterior spinal branch unites with its fellow of the opposite side and forms the single einterior spinal artery. The posterior