224 THE ARTICULATIONS. is remarkably loose. Besides extending upward between the radius and ulna, it lines the upper surface of the fibro-cartilage beneath the latter. The nerve-mpply comes from the anterior and posterior interosseous nerves. Ilovements.—The upper end of the radius rotates on a longitudinal axis passing through its head and neck, while the lower end rotates around the head of the ulna, having the attachment of the apex of the fibro-cartilage as its centre (Fig. 244). The entire bone thus describes rather less than 180° of a cone, with its apex above and its base below, its axis extending from the centre of the radial head to the outer side of the styloid process of the ulna. In these movements the radius carries the hand. The forearm is said to be supin- ated when its two bones lie nearly parallel and the dorsum of the hand looks backward, and pronated when the radius lies obliquely across the ulna, and the palm of the hand looks backward. The ])ower of supination is much greater than that of pronation. In the above movements the ulna is thought by many to undergo slight circumduction. This implies a little lateral movement at the elbow, which, if it occurs at all, must be very trifling and due to a slight incongruence of the surfaces. Supination and pronation with a straight arm are apparently much increased by the rotation of the humerus at the shoulder. The interosseous membrane, from the direc- tion of its fibres, transmits the weight of the body from the ulna to the radius or the shock of a fall on the' hands from the radius to the ulna. 6. The Wrist-joint or Radio-carpal Articulation (Figs. Fig. 244. —Mechan- 245, 246). ism of pronation and supination. (Testut.) ^he lower end of the radius and of the triangular fibro- cartilage presents a surface slightly concave transversely, as well as from before backward, which receives the correspondingly convex upper articular surfaces of the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones. The latter surfaces are prolonged farther upon the dorsal than upon the palmar aspect. The ulna is excluded from the joint by the triangular cartilage ; and the pisiform bone of the first row does not enter into the articulation. The joint is condyloid in action. The rather loose capsule is described as four ligaments, which are, however, continuous. The internal lateral ligament is attached above as a rounded cord to the styloid process of the ulna, and spreads out below onto the cuneiform and pisiform bones. The external lateral ligament radiates from the summit of the radial styloid jirocess onto the outer, back, and front surfaces of the sca]ihoid, some fibres being continued to the trapezium and os magnum. It is in relation with the radial artery and the extensor tendons of the thumb. The anterior ligament is broad, strong, and membranous. Its fibres pass for the most part obliquely from the anterior border of the lower end of the radius downward and inward to the palmar aspect of the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones, especially the latter. Some fibres pass over to the os magnum. Another group of fibres passes more vertically from the ulnar styloid process to the semilunar and cuneiform bones. The posterior ligament, thinner and less strong than the anterior, is strengthened by the extensor tendons in relation with it. Its fibres also pass for the most part obliquely downward and inward from the dorsal border of the lower end of the radius to the first row of carpal bones, especially to the cuneiform bone. The synovial membrane lines the capsule between the articular surfaces.