THE EYE. 685 series of radial thickenings or ridges, the cUiary pi-ocesses (Fig. 735), about seventy in number, which, rising gradually from the anterior limit of the choroid, reach their greatest elevation a little behind the corneo-scleral junction, where they terminate abruptly in a series of ])r()minences, the corona ci/iaris. Superficial to these lies the ciliary muscle, containing botli radiating and circular fibres. The former arise from the deep surface of tlie sclerotic near the cornea, where they are attached to the bundles of the membrane of Descemet already referred to. Extending backward they are inserted into the outer surface of the ciliary body and choroid. The circular fibres are ])laced on the deep surface of the radiating portion, and form a muscular ring around the circumfei'ence of the iris. When the ciliary muscle contracts, it draws forward the choroid and ciliary body, thus relaxing the suspensory ligament, which allows the lens to become more convex for near accommodation. The Iris (Figs. 734, 735). The iris is the colored membrane, which hangs like a screen in the aqueous chamber behind the cornea. In its centre is the aperture called the pupU, which, through the contractile power of the iris, varies in size and is thus adapted to regulate the amount of light admitted to the retina. At its circumference the iris is continuous with the ciliary body, and, through the ligamentum pectinatum iridis, with the cornea also. Faint, wavy lines on its anterior surface, converging ANTERIOR CILIARY ARTERIES ANTERIOR CILIARY ARTERIES Fig. 734.—Iris, front view. (Testut.) toward the pupil, mark the situation of subjacent blood-vessels. Its posterior surface is covered by a layer of dark ])igmented e])ithelium, which belongs morphologically to the retina. Its stroma is formed of delicate connective tissue, containing a variable mnnber of pigmented cells, and carrying numerous vessels and nerves. The color of the iris depends partly on the ])igment cells of the stroma, and partly on the retinal layer behind. When the jjigment is abundant in the stromal cells, it controls the color,—some shade of gray, broAvn, or black ; but when it is scanty or absent, that of the retinal cells behind showing through the stroma imparts to the iris one of the various shades of blue.