393 THE ARTERIES. in the length, supplied bv these vessels. Variations in the branches of the external earotid are very often met with, and will be described in connection with each branch respectively. Surgical Anatomy (Figs. 442-446).—To ligate the external carotid lower half of its course, an incision should be made three inches in beginning an inch below the superior border of the thyroid cartilage, and extend ing upward along the inner border of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle. This incision should divide the skin, superficial fascia, platysraa myoid muscle, and deep fascia ; the sterno-cleido-mastoid is drawn to the outer side, and the vessel exposed. The vessel is very superficially situated, and the operation is not difficult. To expose the vessel in the upper half of its course, an incision should be made about three inches in length along the inner border of the sterno-cleido- POSTERI AURICULAR OCCIPITAL Fig. 445.—The external and internal carotid arteries. The hypoglossal nerve, the digastric and stylo- hyoid muscles, and the internal jugular vein are to be noted. (Testut.) mastoid, beginning opposite the hyoid bone and extending upward. This incision should divide the skin and superficial fascia, platysma myoid muscle, and the deep fascia. The posterior belly of the digastric muscle and the stylo-hyoid muscles are found crossing the artery, and above these is seen the lower border of the parotid gland. The digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles are drawn downward, and the border of the gland upward, and the vessel is then exposed to view. Branches.—The external carotid, in addition to its two terminal branches, the internal maxillary and temporal, gives off three anterior branches, the superior thyroid, the lingual, and facial ; two po.sterior branches, the occipital and post- auricular ; and one internal branch, the ascending pharyngeal. Although the external carotid in the majority of dissections gives off the branches as described, variations are very common. Superior Thyroid (Fig. 443).—Orufin : from the anterior surface of the exter-