395 THE ARTERIES. Branches.—The superior thyroid sives off branches to the muscles with -\vhii h it is iu contact, ami its terminal branches to the th i/rokt g/and; and in its course gives off usually four branches, the hyoid, the sterno-mastoid, the superior laryn- geal, and the crico-thyroid. The hyoiel runs along the lower border of the hyoid bone. The sterno-mastoid runs outward and downward to the sterno-mastoid mus- cle, which it supplies. This vessel is often divided in the many operations on the side of the neck in which the incision is along the inner border of the sterno-mas- toid, as in removing tubercular glands of the neck, in the operation for ligating the common carotid, etc. The superior laryngeoJ accom})anies the superior laryn- geal nerve in its distribution to the interior of the larynx, passing with the nerve through the thyro-hyoid membrane, and supplying the mucous membrane and muscles of the larynx. The crico-thyroid artery runs inward on the surface of the crico-thyroid membrane. The Lingual Artery (Fig. 447).— Origin : from the external carotid above the superior thyroid and a little below the hyoid bone. Course and termination : the lingual runs along the upper border of the great cornu of the hyoid, then leaves the bone, and passes to the base of the tongue, and runs along the under surface of the tongue, terminating as the ranine artery. Relations.—The artery is at first superficial, then passes beneath the digastric muscle and hyoglossus muscles, and has in front of it the hypoglossal nerve; Fig. i47.—Arteries and veins of the tongue, viewed from the right side. (Testut.) later it is situated in the root of the tongue between the hyoglossus and genio- hyoglossus muscles; it then as the ranine becomes again superficial, being covered only by the mucous membrane of the inferior surface of the tongue. Varieties.—The lingual artery is sometimes a branch from a trunk of the external carotid common to it and the facial, or to it and the superior thyroid, or the three vessels may arise from a common trunk. Surgical Anatomy (Figs. 442, 446).—The lingual artery is often injured in cases of cut throat. It may require ligation also as a preliminary step in removal of the tongue for carcinoma. The vessel can be ligated at its point of origin from the external carotid by the incision described to expose that vessel in the lower part of its course, or it can be ligated where the vessel runs parallel with and just above the hyoid bone and covered by the hyoglossus muscle. In order to expose the ves.sel in this position, a curved incision should be made, beginning a little below the body of the jaw and an inch from the median line, the convexity of the incision downward, reaching the level of the hyoid bone, and the incision terminating below the angle of the jaw. Tiie skin, superficial fascia, platysma,