THE VAGINA. 835 communicating there with the external piulic. The ovarian artery—described with the ovary—aids in supplying the uterus through its communications with the uterine and funicular artei'ies. The veins, which are very large, have nf) valves. Taking origin in the capillary ])lexuses, they converge to form a set of special canals, the uterine sinuses, which are lodged in the meshes of the middle muscular layer. From this point they are directed to the lateral borders of the uterus, where they form between the layers of the broad ligament the uterine plexuses, one on either side. From these the blood is collected by three trunks. One, the uterine vein, accompanying the artery of that name, empties into the internal iliac vein ; a second, by its junction with the veins from the ovary and Fallopian tube, helps to make up the pampiniform plexus ; while a third (unim- portant) trunk follows the funicular artery. The lyviphafics of the mucous mem- brane begin as minute spaces between the fibres of the corium. Joined by the lym])hatics of the muscular coat, they emerge and form beneath the serous cover- ing a rich plexus, from which the lymjjh is carried by three trunks. The first, collecting chiefly from the body of the uterus, the ovary, and the Fallopian tube, accompanies the ovarian vein and empties into the lumbar nodes ; the second, carrying lymph from the cervix, follows the uterine vein, and ends in the pelvic nodes; while the third, following the vein of the round ligament, ends in the inguinal nodes. The nerves, consisting of both medullated and non-mcdullated fibres, are derived from the inferior hypogastric and renal plexuses of the sym- pathetic, and from the third and fourth sacral nerves. The foetal remains to be observed in connection Avith the uterus or its adnexa are the parovarium, the duct of Gartner, the organ of Giraldes, and the hydatid of Morgagni. The parovarium (epoophoron, or organ of Kosenmiiller) is a vestige of the Wolffian body, and represents the vasa efferentia of the testicle. It consists of twelve to twenty tubules, arranged in the form of a triangle, and contained in the thickness of the broad ligament, between the ovary and the Fallopian tube, where it may be seen by holding the ligament against the light. The apex of the triangle reaches to the attached border of the ovary, the base is turned toward the Fallopian tube. The ovarian ends of the tubules are blind ; their ojiposite extremities oj)en into a collecting duct which runs parallel with the outer portion of the Fallopian tube, and represents the canal of the epididymis. Both the col- lecting duct and the tubules are lined with a ciliated, columnar e])ithelium. The canals of Gartner, always present in certain animals, are the remnants of the lower portions of the Wolffian ducts. The latter, in the male, develop into the tail of the epididymis and the vas deferens; in the female they usually dis- appear. When persistent, however, they are found, as minute tubes or fibrous cords, one on either side of the uterus and vagina. Above, these tubes may be continuous with the collecting tubes of the parovarium ; below, tliey may some- times be traced to the vicinity of the urinary meatus. The organ of Giraldes in the male, is represented in the female, by a few scat- tered tubules, remnants also of the Wolffian body, which lie between the layers of the broad ligament, nearer to the uterus than the parovarium. The hydatid of Morgagni, a relic of the Miillerian duct, is usually found in the form of a small pedieulated cyst, attached to one of the finibrise of the Fal- lopian tube. It is lined with ciliated, columnar epithelium, and filled with a clear fluid. THE VAGINA. The vagina (" sheath") (Fig. 898) is a distensible, musculo-membranous canal, which extends from the uterus to the vulva. It is the organ of cojiulation in the female, and in addition affords passage to the menstrual flow and the foetus. Location, Direction, and Dimensions.—It is situated in the median line of the pelvis, between the bladder and rectum. Running downwai'd and forward, its