440 THE BLOOD-VASCULAB SYSTEM. Scarpa's triangle ; in the lower half in an aponeurotic and muscular passage, called Hunter's canal. The vessel divides or rather gives otF a large branch, the deep femoral (profunda), about two inches below the inguinal ligament. The portion of the vessel above this branch is called the common femoral, and its continuation is called the superficial femoral. Relations of the Comjion Femoral Artery. In front. Skin and superficial fascia. Iliac portion of fascia lata. Outer side. Inner side. Common Anterior crural nerve. femoral Femoral vein. artery. Behind. Puljic portion of fascia lata. Psoas magnus niuscle. Pectineus muscle. Capsular ligament of hip. The Superficial Femoral Artery. This vessel extends from the point at which the deep femoral bi'anch is given off to the ()|)ening in the adductor magnus muscle. Relations of the Superficial Femoral Artery. 1)1 fro)d. Skin and superficial fascia. Fascia lata. Sartorius muscle. Fibrous covering of Hunter's canal. Outer side. Inner side. Long saphenous nerve. Superficial Adductor longus. Vastus internus muscle. femoral Adductor magnus. Femoral vein. artery. Sartorius. Behind. Femoral vein. Profunda vessels. Pectineus muscle. Adductor longus muscle. Adductor magnus muscle. Scarpa's Triangle is a surgical region of much importance, and should be cai'c- fully studied. The student is advised to draw a sketch of the triangle and its contents. It is hounded above by the inguinal (Poupart's) ligament, externally by the sartorius muscle, internally by the adductor longus muscle. The floor of this space is formed by the adductor longus, adductor brevis, pectineus, psoas magnus, and iliacus muscles. The contents are the femoral vessels and their branches, and the anterior crural nerve. The s])ace contains also the superficial lyni])hatic nodes which receive the lymph from the lower extremity. Hunter's Canal is a three-sided, filn-o-muscular canal, occupied by the femoral vessels and the internal saphenous nerve. A strong fibrous layer, extending