215 THE TEMPORO-MANDIBVLAR ARTICULATION. down behind than in front. The two sacs communicate when tlie cartilage is perforated. Some fibres of the external pterygoid muscle are inserted into the cartilage in front. The aecessory /if/dmentf; are—(1) the sjjheiuj-mandibular or Ioih/ internal lafcral ligament, a thin band some little distance from the joint, extending from the Fig. 234.—Temporo-mandibnlar articulatiun, o.xtiTiial view. (Testut.) spine of the sphenoid downward and a little forward to the lingula of the man- dible. Separating it from the joint and the ramus are the external pterygoid muscle, the internal maxillary vessels, the inferior dental nerve and vessels, the auriculo-temporal nerve, and the middle meningeal artery. It represents the fibrous remains of a part of Meckel's cartilage. (2) The sti/lo-mandibular liga- ment is a specialized band of the deep cervical fascia extending from near the tip of the styloid process to the angle and the hind border of the ramus of the jaw, between the masseter and internal pterygoid muscles. It separates the submaxillary from the parotid gland. The movements in this joint are—(1) the hinge-motions of elevation, and depression, and (2) the gliding motions of protrusion and re- traction, both («) simple and (h) oblique or grinding. The movements in the two synovial compartments are of different kinds. In the upper there is a protrusion and a reti'action, or a forward and backward gliding, of the carti- lage together with the condyle on the temporal bone, due to the closer connection of the carti- lage with the condyle than with the temporal bone, and to the insertion of the external ptery- goid or protrusor muscle into both cartilage and condyle. In the lower part there is a hinge-motion, on a transverse axis, between the condyle and the cartilage. In opening the month the (1) hinge and (2(0 simple gliding motions are com- bined. When the mouth is opened but slightly (as in talking) there is simply a -lemporo-maudibular articula- tion, mesial view. (Testut.)