THE MUSCLES. 308 intermediate immense muscle." Synonym, crureus, " the leg muscle"—the com- mon name, but very faulty, because it implies location in the leg, whereas this is a muscle altogether in the thigh. Situation, close to the shaft of the femur, Orif/in, the upper two-thirds of the anterior surface of the femur, the outer surface in front of and below the origin of the vastus externus, and the lower half of the external intermuscular septum. Direction, mainly downward. Inser- tion, the upper border of the patella. Action, extension of the leg. Nerve, the anterior crural. A narrow interval, extending downward from near the small trochanter, separates the vastus intermedins from the internus. Close to the bone the intermedius and externus are blended, but are distinct from each other elsewhere. Slightly distal to the lowest part of the origin of the vastus intermedius a few small fasciculi arise from the ventral surface of the femur and pass downward to the proximal l)art of the synovial membrane of the knee-joint. They are usually spoken of as the sub- crureus, but would better be called musculus urticularis gcini, "the knee-joint muscle." MUSCLES MOVING THE WHOLE FOOT. Flexors. Extensors. Tibialis anterior. inS^l'swl) Tibialis posterior. {Gastrocnemius. Soleus. _ Plantaris. Peroneus tertius. -, <f l^'oneus longus. ' \ Peroneus brevis. All of these muscles find insertion in the foot, and all arise entirely in the leg, excepting one, which has its origin upon the thigh, and, since it crosses both knee- and ankle-joints, is a flexor of the leg, when the foot is fixed or fully extended. The extensors are more numerous and powerful than the flexors, the group which occupies the central position in the leg acting upon the foot purely as extensors. The inner and outer muscles respectively turn the foot inward and outward in addition to their work of flexion and extension. Tibialis Anterior (Figs. 362, 363).—" The anterior tibial muscle." Synonym and commoner name, tibialis anticus. Situation, in the front part of the leg and inner side of the foot. Origin, the external tuberosity and ujjper two-thirds of the outer surface of the tibia, and the front of the corresponding and adjacent ])ortion of the interosseous membrane. Direction, downward and inward. Inser- tion, the inner surface of the internal cuneiform and the hind end of the first metatarsal. Action, flexion of foot and elevation of its inner border; also adduc- tion of front of foot. Nerve, the anterior tibial. Peroneus Tertius (Figs. 362, 364).—" The third fibular muscle." Situation, in the front of the leg and dorsum of the foot. Origin, the lower fourth of the anterior surface of the fibula, and the corresponding and adjacent portion of the interosseous membrane. Direction, downward, then forward and outward. Inser- tion, the upper surfiice of the base of the fifth metatarsal. Action, flexion of the foot, elevation of its outer border, and abduction of its front end. It is insepar- able at its origin from the extensor lonsjns digitorum. Tibialis Posterior (Figs. 365, 366,".374, 378).—" The hind tibial muscle." Synovym and commoner name, tibialis posticus. Situation, deep in the back part of the leg and inner part of the foot. Origin, the hind surface of the interosseous membrane, the upper half of the contiguous portion of the tibia, and the inner sur- face of fibula. Direction, downward and inward to the back of the inner mal- leolus, then forward. Insertion, the tuberosity of the navicular, with offshoots to