THE ARTERIES. 403 artery leaves the orbit above the inner canthu.s, and supplies tlie bridge of the nose, anastomosing with the angular branch of the facial. The frontal leaves the orbit at the upper and inner angle, winds up over the forehead near the median line, supplying the soft tissues in this position. Variations.—The ophthalmic is sometimes situated beneath the (jptic nerve, and on the inner side of the orbit throughout its entire course. The ophthalmic is sometimes a branch of the middle meningeal, or sometimes gives origin to the middle meningeal. Variations in the number and position of the branches as described frequently occur. Surgical Anatomy.—In enucleation of the eye the larger branches of the oph- thalmic are, as a rule, not divided, and the resulting hemorrhage is slight and readily controlled. Aneurism of the ophthalmic occurs, producing exophthalmos and inter- FiG. 451.—Arteries of the orbit. (Testut.) ference with the function of the eye. To control such a condition ligation of the common carotid or internal carotid might be necessary. The cerebral portion of the internal carotid has for its branches the posterior communicating, the anterior clioroid, the anterior cerebral, and the middle cerebral arteries. The posterior communicating passes backward to join the posterior cerebral artery, a branch from the basilar, and forms the lateral portion of the circle of Willis. The anterior choroid passes outward and backward to reach the descending horn of the lateral ventricle, where it supplies the choroid plexus. The anterior cerebral runs forward and inward to reach the great longitudinal fissure between the hemispheres. In this fissure the artery lies close to its oppo- site mate, and connecting them is a short trunk, the anterior communicating. The \essel winds over the anterior extremity of the corpus callosum to reach its supe- rior surface. It gives off branches to the anterior perforated space, to the under surface of the frontal lobe, and the mesial surface of the hemisphere, and anasto- moses with the posterior cerebral artery. The middle cerebral artery passes forwai'd and outward to the fissure of Sylvius, and then runs along the fissure of Sylvius to the insula and the external surface of the hemisphere. In its course it gives branches, wdiich enter the anterior perforated space, and supply the