603 THE ANTERIOR PRIMARY DIVISIONS. third cervical nerves, and tlius forming wliat lias been called the dorsal cervical plexus, it winds upward over the obliquus inferior, supplies a twig to the com- plexus, and tlien pierces it and the trapezius to become cutaneous beneath the superior curved line of the occipital bone, about one inch from the middle line. Accom- panied by branches of the occipital artery, it supplies the skin over the upper RECTUS MAJOR Fig. 655.—Dorsal primary divisions of tlie upper three cervical nerves. (Testut.) part of the occipital bone and po.sterior parietal region, intei'lacing with the small occipital externally, and with the cutaneous branch of the third cervical nerve (third occipital nerve) internally. The Third Occipital Nerve.—The internal branch of the dorsal division of the third cervical nerve i.s dii'ected upward beneath the com])lexus to reach the skin of the occiput internally to the great occipital, with which it communicates. Its distribution has led to its being called the tkird occipital nerve. The Anterior Primary Divisions. CERVICAL NERVES. The upper four cervical nerves unite to form the Cervical Ple.rus, and supjoly the skin and muscles of the neck. The lower four unite with the first thoracic nerve to form the brachial plexus by which the upper limb is supplied. The Ceevical Plexus (Fig. 656). The first cervical nerve (ventral division), after leaving the vertebral canal in the groove on the dorsal arch of the atlas, winds round to the front on the inner side of the vertebral artery and bends downward over the transverse process to join the second nerve. The ventral division of the second nerve leaves the vertebral canal behind the articular process of the axis ; those of the rest of the cervical nerves pass outward in the intervertebral foramina, behind the vertebral artery and between the rectus capitis anterior major and the scalenus medius. On the surfiice of the levator scapulte and scalenus medius, and under cover of the sternomastoid these four nerves form three loops ; and from these loops, or from the nerves themselves, spring the branches of the plexus. These are divisible into a superficial cutaneous set, and a deep series, including muscular and communicating nerves.