THE SUPRARENAL CAPSULES. 7*J9 Structure.—Section of a suprarenal body (l^^ig. 86*J) shows it to bo composed of a peripheral portion, the cortex, and a central portion, the mechdia—the two being separated by loose, areolar tissue, and the wliole mass enclosed in a thin, fibrous capsule, which sends inward numerous vertical trabecukc, between which arc many connecting bands. Mingled with the fibrous tissue is smooth muscular tissue. Thus are formed spaces in which are lodged the active cells of the organ. In the cortex, which is of a deep yellow color, the <-ells, <rranular, nucleated, polyhedral, are for the most part arranged in columns, pcr])endicular to the sur- face. The medulla is pulpy and dark brown, its color being principally caused by the great abundance of the blood-vessels of the part. The vessels are veins, arranged in a plexus in the fibro-muscular framework, and closely related to groups of large, irregular cells. The arteries, derived from the renal, and the phrenic, as well as directly from the aorta, enter at various points of the surface, and run inward in the trabeculie, Fig. 8CS.—Riglit Miprarenal capsule and kidney, Pig. 869.—Sagittal section of the right viewed from in front. (Testut.) suprarenal capsule. (Testut.) giving off" capillaries to the columns and other clusters of cells. The reins are nearly all gathered into the medulla, and their efiferents are the radicles of a single vessel, which emerges at the hilum, and passes on the right side to the adjacent vena cava, on the left to the corresponding renal. The l;/mphatics begin in lymph-paths lietween the groups of cells and the framework, and run to the median lumbar nodes. The iierres are derived from the solar and renal jilexuses. They are very numerous, and present many ganglia before entering the organ, and ganglion- cells in the medulla. The suprarenal capsules, like the kidneys upon which they rest, are surrounded by a quantity of adipose tissue. Quite often small accessory bodies of identical structure are found in the immediate neighborhood. The Parathyroids. Embedded in the surface of each lateral lobe of the thyroid body are two little masses, each about one-quarter of an inch in diameter, one on the inner and