222 THE ABTICULA TIONS. dons, which further strengthen the joint, lies the fibrons capsule, reinforced inter- nally and externally, and therefore described in four parts. The triangular internal lateral ligament is attache d by its apex to the lower aspect of the internal condyle, and by its base to the inner margin of the coronoid and olecranon processes. It is divided into two smaller triangles, ventral and dorsal, by an intermediate thinner part attached to the meeting-point of these two processes. This ligament is the strongest part of the capsule. The external lateral ligament, shorter and narrower than the internal, radiates from its upper attachment on the lower part of the external condyle to the outer side of the orl)icular ligament. A few fibres reach the neck of the radius. The anterior ligament is the thin, fore part of the capsule between the lateral ligaments. Superiorly it is attached above the coronoid and radial depressions, and includes them within the joint; inferiorly it is attached, just beyond the articular margin, to the front of the coronoid process and to the orbicular ligament, some fibres passing to the neck of the radius. It is reinforced by the adhesion of some of the fibres of the brachialis, which draAVs it up in flexion and prevents it from being nipped between the bony margins. The posterior ligament is thin and weak, like the anterior. By its at- tachment above and at the sides of the olecranon fossa it includes the latter within the joint. Its ujiper fibres 2)ass transversely across the fossa. Inferiorly it is attached to the olecranon process, near the upper and outer margins of the great sig- moid cavity, to the orbicular liga- ment, and to the ulna behind the small sigmoid cavity. It is strengthened by the adhesion of the triceps, Avhich draws it up during extension. The synovial membrane lines the inner surface of the capsule, and thence passes onto the humerus, where it lines the olecranon, coronoid, and radial fossae, and extends to the articular cartilage. Projecting into the above fossae are masses of fat placed between the ^capsule and the synovial membrane. Inferiorly the membrane extends into the superior radio-ulnar joint, Avhere it lines the orbicular ligament, thence passing onto and around the neck of the radius, and so up to its articular cartilage. A fold of synovial membrane, projecting into the joint from in front o])posite the outer lip of the trochlea, suggests the division of the joint into two parts. The nerve-supply is mainly from the musculo-cutaneous, with a few filaments from the musculo-spiral, median, and idna. Movements arc confined to flexion and extension on an axis obliquely placed at an angle of about 84° with the shaft of the humerus, so that in extension the forearm is inclined outward and in flexion inward. Flexion occurs through 140°, and is limited by the contact of the soft parts ; extension is limited, when the ulna and humerus are nearly in line, by the tension of the soft j^ai'ts and ligaments in front, and of the ventral jiortions of the lateral ligaments. The olecranon and coronoid processes do not arrest normal but only forced motion, by contact with the bottoms of their respective fossse. The head of the radius moves on the capitellum, and is in most complete contact with it in semiflexion, in which posi- tion it rotates best on the humerus in pronation and supination. Except pos- sibly to a very limited extent, owing to the slight incongruence of the surfaces, lateral motion is prevented by the lateral ligaments and the shape of the bones. Fig. 242.—Elbow-joint, outer side. (Testnt.)