THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. 386 thorax, and interfere with the normal function of these structures. An interest- ing symptom is hoarseness and loss of voice, due to pressure on the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Branches of the Ascending Portion of the Arch.—The coronary arteries are two in number. The rigid coronarj/ arises from the aorta above the right (anterior) flap of the aortic valve; it winds to the right in the groove between the right auricle and ventricle, until it reaches the septum between the right and left ven- tricles posteriorly. Here it divides into two branches, one continuing in the groove between the left auricle and ventricle ; the other passing downward in the groove between the ventricles to the apex of the heart. The left corouary arises from above the left segment of the aortic valve, passes forward and to the left behind the ^iulmonary artery, and divides opposite the septum between the right and left ventricles anteriorly into two branches, one descending in the groove between the ventricles to the apex of the heart, the other running to the left and backward in the groove between the left auricle and the left ventricle. The coronary arteries supply the heart-muscle, and send small branches to the contiguous portions of the aorta and jjulmonary artery. The Branches of the Transverse Portion of the Arch.—These are the brachio- cephalic, the left common carotid, and the left subclavian. THE BRACHIO CEPHALIC ARTERY. The brachio-cejJia/ic (innominate) artery is a short trunk of about an inch and a half in length, and is the first branch of the transverse portion of the arch. Origin, from the transverse portion of the arch opposite the upper border of the second costal cartilage. Course, upward and to the right. Termination, at the sterno-clavicular articulation by dividing into the right common carotid and right subclavian. Relations. In front. Sternum. Sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. Left innominate and left inferior thyroid veins. Bight side. Right brachio-ce]>halic vein. Right pneumogastric nerve. Pleura. Brachio-cephalic artery. Left side. Left carotid. Left inferior thyroid vein. Trachea. Behind. Trachea. Variations.—The brachio-cephalic may be absent, the right common carotid and subclavian springing directly from the aorta. It may be longer or shorter than usual—less than an inch, or more than two inches in length. Surgical Anatomy (Fig. 442).—The brachio-cephalic may be the site of aneurism, and from its deep position produce pressure-symptoms resembling aneurism of the arch of the aorta—?'. e., pressure on the trachea, recurrent laryn- geal, oesophagus, roots of the lungs, and the great vessels. The lirachio-cephalic has been ligated for aneurism of the carotid and subclavian, but the results have not been encouraging ; and although the operation is not a standard surgical ])rocedure and one rarely performed, the description of the dissection necessary to expose the vessel for ligation will be of value in fixing in the student's mind the relation of surrounding structures, and will therefore be given here. The subject is placed on the table with a block beneath the shoulder, so that the head and neck fall backwai'd, and an assistant draws the right up]ier extremity downward so as to