THE CRANIAL KE RVES. 565 cells of Clarke's column, and of the nucleus gracilis and nucleus cuneatus in the oblongata, and others which need not be mentioned. Tluis a dorsal nerve-root is related to two groups of cells, viz., those of its ganglion and a number of widely scattered cells of the gray matter of the spinal cord and oblongata. The ganglion is homologous with the Gasserian ganglion on the fifth cranial nerve, the jugular ganglion on the ninth, the ganglia of the tenth, and the nerve-cells of the olfactory bulb, retina, and spiral ganglion of the cochlea ; and the cells of the dorsal horn of gray matter, with which the sensory fibres are related, collectively represent what are described as the misovy nuclei of the cranial nerves. The mixed cranial nerves, such as the fifth, uintli, and tentli, fi)llow this type verv closely ; the third, fourth, sixth, seventh, eleventh, and twelfth are purely motor nerves, and correspond developmentally with the motor root of a sj^inal nerve ; while the first, second, and eighth are purely sensory, and are constituted like the sensory root of a spinal nerve. THE CRANIAL NERVES. The classification of the cranial nerves into twelve pairs is based upon their mode of distribution. It was proposed by Soemmering, and is now generally adopted, in preference to the older classification of AVillis into nine pairs, which had reference to their mode of piei'cing the dura. The following table gives at a glance the numerical and the ordinary name of each nerve, and a summary of its function and area of distribution. Table of the Cranial Nerves. Classification ' of Soemmering. other Names. Distribution. Function. Olfactory. Optic. Oculomotor. Trochlear. Trifacial. Abducent. Facial. Auditory. Glossopharyn- geal. Upper third of nasal cavity. ■ Retina. ; Muscles of eyeball (except external rectus I and superior oblique). Superior oblique of eyeball. Sensory part to face, fore part of scalp, ex- ternal ear, eye, teeth, gums, cheek, fore part of tongue. Motor part to muscles of mastication. External rectus of eyeball. Superficial muscles of face, frontalis, pla- tysma, stylohyoid, and posterior belly of digastric. Membranous labyrinth of ear. Pharynx and hind part of tongue, some motor fibres. Pneumogas-j "Ssn.sory to external ear. Motor and senRoryl trie, o r| to pharynx, larynx, trachea, lungs, vagus. j cesophngus, stomach, heart. Some fibres| to liver. Spinal acces-jMotor to trapezius and sternomastoid mus- sory. 1 cles. The rest is accessory to the pneu- I mogastric. j Hypoglossal. Muscles of the tongue. Special Sense (Smell). Speci.\l Sense (Sight). Motor. Motor. Ordixaey sense. Motor. !MOTOR. Motor. Special Sense (Hearing and Equilibrium). Special Sense ( Ta.ste). Ordixary Sexse. Motor. Ordixary Sexse. Motor. Motor. Ordixary Sexse. Motor. Superficial Origins (Fig. 627).—The cranial nerves spring from the under sur- face of the brain in the order of their names. Thus, the first appears in front of the anterior perforated spot; the second springs from the chiasma, the optic tracts being superficially traceable to the corpora quadrigemina ; the third nerve arises from the inner side of the crus cerebri close to the pons ; the fourth Avinds round