69 ^SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. speedily become clogged with its thick and slimy secretion ; and the thinnest and most delicate cutaneous membrane woidd obviously be too thick and coarse to permit the transudation necessary for the nutrition of the tissues. Only a serous membrane with its almost frictionless surface and its watery secretion could pos- sibly meet the recpiirements of the case. The details of structure of the tunica intima will be presented in connection with the description of the heart, blood-vessels, and lymphatics, respectively. 3. The Lining Membrane of Certain Cavities in Sustentacular Tissues. The most conspicuous illustration of this form of serous membrane is found in the internal ear. Around the greater part of the membranous labyrinth, which is the essential portion of the organ of hearing, and between it and the bone in which it is lodged, is a considerable S])ace, lined with serous membrane and filled with a watery fluid, which is called ])erilymph. Another example is found bet\veen the back of the eyeball and the bed of fat upon which it reposes. It is called the capsule of Tenon, and is a shut sac, with a visceral layer upon the globe of the eye and a parietal layer attached to the postjacent adipose tissue. It permits free movements of the eye in the orbit with the least possible friction. lu character and function it closely resembles the proper serous membranes. 4. The Lining Membrane of the Cavity of the Cerebro-spinal Axis. The brain and spinal cord are hollow organs. Their cavities are lined with a delicate membrane, serous in character, its epithelium being in embryonic life ciliated, and its secretion thin and watery. The membrane is known as the efirfyma (" garment") or epeucZywia. It will be described in the chapiter on the Cerebro-spinal Axis. SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. By certain authorities the synovial membranes are classed with the serous, and there are some good arguments in favor of this association. But, while these mem- branes have no communication with the surface, and have the same order of func- tion as the serous membranes, there are such differences as to justify a separation of the one from the other. The group of synovial membranes with wliich surgeons have most to do are not shut sacs, although each forms a part of the wall of a closed cavity; they have a different lining from serous membranes ; their secretion is not serous; and they are not associated with the viscera. Therefore, they are here treated by themselves. The synovial membranes form a part f)r the whole of the enclosure of certain cavities, which are associated with the osseous framework or the muscular system, or both ; and the service which they render is the lubrication of parts which glide upon each other. A synovial membrane is composed of fibrous tissue, having on its free surface an imjserfect covering of cells (Fig. 72), and thus affording the great exception to the rule that free surfaces are completely clothed with cells. These cells are of no regular shape, are branched, and are gathered into little patches, which are scattered over the surface, leaving considerable areas upon which no cellular structure appears. The cells are often called epithelioid, which means "like epithelium." fig. 72.-synoviai membrane-free Their secretion is a glairy fliiid, which smears su[fece,^howmg imperfect covering of tlie entire free surface of the membrane, and is called synovia, from its resemblance to the white of egg.