515 THE CEREBRUM. gyri : the first (m\)or\or) frontal, between the longitudinal fissure and the superior frontal; the second (aaiddle)//'ojfta/, between the superior and inferior frontal fissures ; the third (inferior) frontal, beneatii the inferior frontal fissure, capping the anterior limb of the Sylvian fissure ; and the precentral (anterior central, ascending frontal) between the precentral and central fissures. On the under surface the frontal lobe has tw^o principal fissures. The first runs parallel with the great longitudinal and close to it, and is called the olfactory fissure from its giving lodgement to the olfactory nerve and its bulb. The other, the supra-orbited, fissure, is very irregular, generally starting near the Sylvian fissure, coursing tbrward and then outward, and sending tifFshoots in various directions. The narrow gyrus between the longitudinal and the olfactory fissures is a continuation of the first frontal gyrus of the convex surface, the gyrns between Fig. 562.—The hemispheres viewed from below. The gjTi of the right hemisphere are labelled, the fissures of the left. this and the supra-orbital fissure is continuous with the second frontal of the con- vexity, and the residue of the surface is continuous with the third frontal. On the mesial surface the gyrus which begins under the front end of the callosum, and is bounded at first above, then behind, and then below by the calloso-marginal fissure, is continuous with the first frontal over the edge of the great longitudinal fissure. It is called the marginal gyrus from its situation. It really overlaps by a little the parietal region of the convex surface, and the cen- tral fi.ssure appears as a notch in its hindmost part. A vertical fissure marks off a squarish area in this region, called the paracentred gyrus, because it is continu- ous with the gyri before and behind the central fissure of the convexity. Parietal Gyri (Figs. 560-563).—The parietal lobe does not ajjpear on the under surface. On the outer surface is the intreiparietal fi^^^ure, which starts near the Sylvian, passes up a short distance, and then swings back and runs almost