750 THE PERITONEUM. the small curvature of the stomach and the adjacent first part of the duodenum to the portal fissure of the liver, and encloses the tubes which enter and leave this opening. The gastro-colic ("stomach-colon") omentum or grreoi omentum (Fig. 807) con- nects the great curvature of the stomach and the adjoining first part of the duodenum with the transverse colon. This omentum is far more voluminous than is necessary to establish a bond of miion between the stomach and colon : it hangs downward in front of the mass of small intestines like an apron, and car- ries in the interstices of its structure an amount of adipose tissue, which varies according to the fatness of the individual. This protective organ, so serviceable in keeping the bowels warm, justifies the alleged origin of its name, which makes it mean " coverlet." The gastro-splenic (" stomach-spleen ") omentum is a double fold of peritoneum, passing from the dorsal surface of the stomach, near its left border, backward and inward to the anterior margin of the hilum of the spleen. It runs below into the gastro-colic omentum. It is often called the gastro-splenic ligament. Ligaments. Other folds of peritoneum, connecting two viscera, or a viscus with the abdominal wall, are called ligaments. The name hepato-duodenal ligament is sometimes applied to the right, free mar- gin of the gastro-hepatic omentum, which connects the liver and duodenum. The ligaments of the liver, which are formed from peritoneum—suspensory, coronary, lateral—have already been discussed. The /ieno-reHo/ (" spleen-kidney") ligament, including the lieno-imncreatic ligament, which is its ventral layer, will be described in connection with the spleen. The peritoneal ligaments of the bladder and the uterus will be more fittingly treated of in the chapters on the urinary and the reproductive organs. The phreno-colic ("diaphragm-colon") ligament, also called costo-colic, is a small fi»ld stretching from the diaphragm near the tenth or eleventh rib of the left side to the colon near the spleen, and giving mechanical support to the last- named organ. General View of the Peritoneum. The pentoneum as a tohole is to be regarded as a bag, constricted to a mere passage-way at one point, so that there are formed two cavities, a great one and a small one, communicating through a narrow throat. VENA CAVA INFERIOR Pj(3 808.—Dissection to sliow n l.itinn^ of tlie foramen of Winslow, to which the dart points. The front of the rit'lit portion of the gastro-hi'i.:itic (niu'ntum has been cut and turned off to tlie left, and the liver lifted up and baclj, displaying the objects in the Imjit wall of the foramen. The horizontal broken line marks the posi- tion of the section from which the next picture was made. (Testut.) The small sac of the peritoneum lies behind the large sac, and furnishes the serous surface for the back of the stomach, the Spigelian lobe of the liver, and the