THE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SENSES. 686 RADIATING VESSELS OF IRIS Near the pupillary border of the iris there lies embedded in the .stroma a cir- cular band of smootli muscle-fibres, the sphincter iridis, whose action contracts the pupil. On the deep surface of the sphinc- ter is a membrane formed of straight fibres, stretching from the circumference of the iris to the sphincter. Whether these are muscle- fibres or merely elastic is still unsettled, l>ut the view prevails that they cause dilatation of the pupil. Vessels and Nerves of the Iris.—The two long cUiary arteries run forward along the outer and inner aspects of the globe, between the sclerotic and choroid, to the attached border of the iris. Here each divides into a superior and an inferior branch, which, by anas- tomosing with one another and with the an- terior ciliary arteries (from the muscular branches of the ophthalmic), form a vascular ring in this situation, the circulus major iridis. From this branches are given off, which con- verge toward the pupil, where, by dividing and anastomosiug, they form the circulus minor iridis. The arrangement of the veins corresponds to that of the arteries. They communicate with the sinus in the canal of Schlemm. The ciliary nerves, after furnishing a gang- liated plexus to the vessels of the choroid, enter the ciliary muscle, where they form another plexus. From this latter filaments pass into the iris, where they follow the course of the blood-vessels, finally ending in the sphincter iridis. PROCESS Fig. T.i.i —x'lnncnt i.l tin- ins. ciliary body, and I'lmruid. view Iruiii the internal surluce. (Testut.) THE INNER OR NERVOUS TUNIC. The Retina (Fig. 736) constitutes the innermost coat of the ocular wall. It is everywhere in clo.se contact with the uveal tunic. Developmeutally it is laid TEMPORAL SIDE UPPER TEMPORAL BRANCH OF ART. CENTR. RET. SCLEROTIC CHOROID . ..RETINA UPPER NASAL BRANCH OF ART. CENTR, RET. NASAL SIDE Fig. 73fi.—Retinft of the right eye, front view, opticus at the right of it. (Testut.) Tlie macula lutea is seen in the middle, and the porus