469 THE VEINS. branches from tlie palm and the tliumb. communicate freelv with one another. The CEPHALIC- MEDIAN CEPHALIC MEDIAN BASILIC ULNAR BRANCH FROM DEEP SET ANTERIOR ULNAR of the iL-rist, which receives a few superficial veins of the forearm The Eadial Vein, commenc- ino-in the radial side of the dorsal plexus runs up the radial side of the forearm to a little above the bend of the elbow, where, on the outer side of the biceps- tendon, it joins the median cephalic vein to form the ce- jjhalic vein. On the hand it communicates with the deep veins of the palmar arch, and along its course it receives many superficial tributaries. The Posterior Ulnar Vein begins in the ulnar side of the dorsal plexus, and, after com- municating with the deej) pal- mar veins, it extends upward along the dorsal aspect of the ulnar side of the forearm. Near tlie bend of the elbow it usually receives the anterior ulnar vein, and, just below the internal condyle of the humerus, the re- sulting common ulnar vein turns forward to join the median basilic to form the basilic vein. The Anterior Ulnar Vein is smaller than the foregoing, which it joins near the bend of the elbow, except rarely when it enters the median basilic vein separately. It ascends from the wrist along the ulnar side of the front of the forearm. The Median Vein ascends along the front of the forearm from the plexus on the front of the wrist to the bend of the elbow, where, after receiving the (Jeep median vein from the deep set of veins, it immediately bifurcates into the median basilic and the median cephalic veins. The Median Basilic Vein, the larger of the two divisions, is directed upward and inward to the groove internal to the biceps, where it forms the basilic vein by , joining the common ulnar trunk or one of the ulnar veins. It crosses the brachial artery, from which it is separated by the fascial tendon of insertion of the bicejis ; hence in venesection, in whicli this vein was the one commonly chosen, on account of its size, constancy, and accessibility, the artery was sometimes punctured, lead- ing to arterio-venous aneurism, etc. Branches of the internal cutaneous nerve cross in front of and behind it. The Median Cephalic Vein runs upward and outward in the groove between the biceps and brachio-radialis muscles to form the cephalic vein, by uniting with the radial vein just above the bend of the elbow. The musculo-cutaneous nerve passes beneath it. The Basilic Vein ascends in the groove, on the inner side of the biceps, a little internal to the course of the brachial artery. Perforating the deep fascia below the middle of the arm, it ends by joining the inner vena comes of the brachial artery to form the axillary vein. Fig. 499.—Superficial veins of front of forearm and lower part of arm. (Testut.)