THE ARTICULATIONS. 228 a strong, triangular band, with its apex above and internally, where it is attached to the lower and front part of the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra, from which it radiates downward and outward to the lateral surface of the base of the sacrum, blending with the anterior sacro-iliac ligament. The ilio-lum- bar ligament also is a strong triangular band, which passes from the apex of the transverse process of the fifth lumbar vertebra outward and somewhat backward, expanding to its attachment along the dorsal two inches of the inner lip of the iliac crest. It represents the thickened lower edge of the ventral layer of the lumbar fascia covering the quadratus lumborum, and gives origin to that muscle. It also helps to complete the dorsal boundary of the false pelvis. The Sacro-coccygeal and Intercoccygeal Articulations. The sacrum is united to the coccyx by an oval intervertehral disc, by an anterior and a stronger 'posterior saero-eoccygeal ligament, the continuations of the anterior and posterior common ligaments of the vertebi'te; and by lateral liga- ments passing between the cornua of the two bones, and between the transverse processes of the first coccygeal vertebra and the lateral angles of the sacrum. The ligaments connecting the cornua of the two bones are sometimes called inter- artieular, as the cornua represent articular processes ; but the ligament is prob- ably the continuation of the supraspinous ligament, which roofs over the lower end of the spinal canal. The several pieces of the coccyx are held together by the continuation of the anterior and posterior ligaments described above. Small discs of fibro-cartilage also connect them as long as they remain separate bones. The Sacro-iliac Joint. This is a synchondrosis in which the cartilage-clad auricular surfaces of the sacrum and ilium are bound together by a thin stratum of softer fibro-cartilage, which may contain a synovial-like cavity. In some cases also interosseous fibrous tissue partly binds the surfaces together, especially near the dorsal superior border, behind and above which the short transverse fibres of the deej) part of the posterior sacro-iliac ligament sometimes receive the name of interosseous ligament. The anterior sacro-iliac ligament consists of a thin layer of fibres covering the front or pelvic surface of the joint, between the pelvic brim and the great sacro-sciatic notch. The posterior sacro-iliac ligament is very strong. The deeper bundles of fibres pass inward and slightly downward from the rough area above and behind the auricular surface of the ilium to the back of the lateral mass of the sacrum. A more dorsal or superficial band, sometimes called the long or oblique sacro-iliac ligament, passes from the back of the posterior superior iliac spine downward and slightly inward to the back of the third sacral vertebra. The cartilage connecting the auricular surfaces of this joint tears away, as one mass, from one or the other surface when the bones are forcibly separated. The sacro-sciatic ligaments also help to support this joint. The great or posterior sacro-sciafie ligament is thin and flat at its attached ends, narrower and thicker in the centre, which thus divides it into two triangles, of which the broader is attached to the posterior inferior iliac spine and the sides of the sacrum and coccyx, and the narrower to the inner margin of the ischial t iQ. 247.—sacro-iiiac jomr, cui in a plane parallel to that of the superior strait through the second sacral vertebra. (Testut.)