527 THE CEREBRVM. loru, icate <]i.'^appcarod. Tlie liiglily vascular pia, wherever it covers nervous tissue, sends l)ranches of its vessels into the surface layers of this tissue ; but along this line, which extends from the porta (foramen of Monro) to the tip of the middle the pia lies against no such resistant material, being applied closely to the de endyma. Its branches, becoming dilated and prolonged, j)iish the filmy serous membrane in- ward, so that an irregular, clumpy mass of vessels, covered everywhere with endyma, encroaches upon the space originally devoted to the ^•entric- ular cavity. This vascular structure is called the choroid, plexm {" leather-like network") (Fig. 571). It is convenient to speak of the "intru- sion " of the choroid plexus into the ventricular cavity; but as the cavity is limited by the endyma, and no breach is made in this membrane, the expression is not strictly correct, the fact being that the wall of the cavity is bent inward, and the contained space is by so much diminished. All of the choroid plexuses are explained in the same way. It is to be noted that, while the choroid plexus of the body of the lateral ventricle is derived from the velum, the choroid plexus of the posterior horn is derived from the pia which clothes the limbic lobe. The diagram (Fig. 580) will aid one in understanding this. In it the velum is shown as a triangle marked with transverse red lines; the choroid plexuses are in solid red ; the taemus semicirculares are in Ijlue ; and the outline of the fornix and fimbrite is indicated by broken lines. We are looking down upon these objects. On the right of the diagram the tsenia and fimbria, ^\ ith the intervening choroid plexus, are represented as straightened out, as if the temporal lobe and Fig. 579.—Diagram of transverse section of axis where a ixjrtion of the nervous wall hasdisajiyjeared, allowing pill and endyma to come together. Fig. .')80.—Diagram to show relations of taenia, fimbria, and choroid plexus in body of lateral ventricle and in middle horn. On the right side the parts are straightened out, on the left they are curved in their natural shape. (F. H. G.) the adjacent part of the limbic lobe had been stretched Ijackward. On the left the parts are shown with the curve naturally described by the middle horn. In making the curve the parallelism Vjetween the two nervous bands is substantially