528 THE CEBEBRO-SPIXAL AXIS. maintained, but the ttenia gets above tlie fimljria. The middle horn is much nearer to the mesial than to the outer surface of the temporal lobe, so near, in fact, that the fimbria is covered with pia. In the region of the velum the choroid plexus is formed by the pia which makes the velum ; beyond the hind edge of the velum the plexus is made from the pia immediately on the surface of the brain. The crevice through which the invagination of the pia is effected is called the transverse fissure, or the choroid fissure ; and it extends from the porta (foramen of ^louro) nearly to the distal end of the middle horn on each side. In the posterior horn of the lateral ventricle (Fig. 581) the inner wall, which slopes outward toward the floor, presents a prominent protrusion, caused by the pushing in of the entire wall of the cavity at this point in correspondence with the depression upon the tentorial surface of the hemisphere, which we know as Fig. 581.—Horizontal section of left hemisphere, opening the middle horn ■ if tin- lateral ventricle. The upper segment, containing the roof of the horn, has been turned off to the left. iTestut.) the calcarine fissure. The elevation is well called the ccilenr {" spur "), although a less suggestive and helpful name, hippocampus minor (" the smaller sea-horse ") is more commonly used. Just above the ealcar is another prominence, the bulb, produced by the posterior forceps of the callosum. The roof of this cornu, as stated previously, is furnished by the tapetuin of the callosum. Finally, the floor is triangular, has a convex surface, owing to the intrusion of the wall cau.sed by the formation of the collateral fissure, and is called the eminentia collateraUs. The posterior horn gets its peculiar curve from the intrusion of the parieto-occipital fissure on the mesial surface of the hemisphere (Fig. 558). In the middle horn of the lateral ventricle the parietes are the interned (mesial) 7redl, the jioni', and the roq/'(Figs. 575, 578, 581, 582). The inner wall swells out- ward, so that it is seen in large part in a view from above ; the floor is rounded