84 EMBRYOLOGY. It has been seen that the depression of the embryo into the embryonic vesicle gives rise to the formation of an amniotic fold. ' As the constriction of the embryo from the embryonic shield progresses, this fold increases in size, and eventually its lips unite at the outer end of the belly-stalk, the depression in which the embryo lies being thus converted into a closed cavity, the amniotic Fig. 96.—Diagram showing the formation of the heUy-stalk. The heavy (lotted line represents the embry- onic portion of the epiblast, the dotted portions and brol^en lines the mesoblast, and the inner continuous line the hypoblast. cavitt/. The formation of this cavity takes place very early in the development, the earliest known embryo having it already completely closed ; and the same remark applies to the formation of branched outgrowths, which develop from the surface of the chorion and are known as the chorionic tn/H. These appear at first over a broad equatorial zone of the embryonic vesicle, but later are developed also at either pole, that portion of the vesicle to which the belly-stalk is attached also developing them. In this last region the villi continue to develop probably throughout gestation, taking part in the formation of the placenta, while over the rest of the vesicle they atrojihy during the second month of development; and it is thus customary to speak of the placental chorion as the chorion frondo- suni, while the remainder is termed the chorion Iceve. Concomitantly with the formation of these embryonic structures important changes take place in the walls of the uterus (Fig. 97). In the first place, the mucous membrane lining it becomes thickened, forming what is termed the dccidua vera, that jjortion of it which is in contact with the chorion frondosum of the embryo becoming especially thick and highly vascular, and forming the decidua serotina ; and, secondly, from the margin of the serotina a fold arises, which grows up around the embryo, and finally encloses it, forming what is termed the decidua rejlexa. Into the villi of