THE SPINE AS A WHOLE. 123 The first coccygeal vertebra presents vestiges of a neural arch in two upward projecting cornua and two laterally pr(^jecting trannccrse or costal processes. The cornua, representing pedicles and superior articular processes, complete the last inter- vertebral foramina for the fifth sacral nerves by their connection with the sacral cornua. Tlie transverse processes complete the notches below the lateral sacral angles, which are converted by ligamentous tissue into the fifth anterior sacral foramina. The second coccygeal vertebra presents two knobs dorsally and two laterally, vestiges of the neural arch and costal processes respectively. Three grooves sep- arate the four bodies. The ventral surface is concave, is closely related to the rectum, and attaches interiorly the levator ani muscle. To the thin lateral borders coccygeus muscle and great sacro-sciatic ligaments. Fig. 14-1.—The coccyx, ventral surface. (Testut.) are attached jiarts of the to the tip the external sphincter ani, and to the posterior surface some fibres of the gluteus maximus. THE SPINE AS A WHOLE. The vertebral or spinal column (Fig. 145) is the central axis of the skeleton, and occupies the median line of the trunk dorsally. It supports the head supe- riorly, the ribs laterally, and through them the weight of the upper extremities. It transmits the weight of these parts to the lower limbs through the hip-bones, with which the sacrum articulates. It also encloses and protects the spinal cord in the bony spinal canal, which is provided with a series of thirty intervertel)i'al foramina for the exit of the spinal nerves. The average length of the spine from the atlas to the tip of the coccyx, following the curves, is twenty-eight inches in the male and twenty-seven inches in the female. About one-quarter of its length is made up of the intervertebral discs. The profile view presents four curves, convex forward in the cervical and lumbar regions, backward in the thoracic and sacral. The thoracic and sacral curves are primaiy, and occur in the early embryo, accommodating the thoracic and pelvic viscera. They are due to the shape of the bodies, wliile the secondary cervical and lumbar curves are due largely (if not entirely in the cervical) to the shape of the intervertebral discs. The latter two curves are compensatoiy to allow the erect position, and are developed after birth. Notice that the upper three curves pass imperceptibly into one another, while the junction of the lumbar and I sacral curves makes an angle, the lumbosacral (or saero-vertebral) angle, which forms the overhanging pro'}nontory of the pelvis. Weight is transmitted by the upper three curves and the first one or two pieces of the sacrum to the hip-bones and lower extremities. In the erect position the chords of these three curves are in tlie .eame vertical line, the line of gravity of the head, which ])asses through the odontoid process, the middle of the bodies of the second and twclftli thoracic, and the ventro-inferior edge of the last lumbar vertebra. The curves add greatly to the elasticity and strength of the column, and thus break shocks and increase its resistance to injury. In addition to these, a slight lateral curve, usually con- vex to the right, exists in the u])per tlioracic region, due probably to the greater muscular use of the right side of the bodv. Pathological exaggerations of all these curves may exist. Siicli a curvature is called scoliosis (" curved ") if lateral, hyphosis ("humpback") if dorsal, and lordosis ("bend") if ventral, the latter being usually eompen.«atory to an ankvlosed liip. The fj-ont vieir presents the bodies of tlie vertebrte becoming broader from the axis to the first thoracic, and from the fourth tlioracic to the sacrum ; and becoming narrower from the first to the fourth thoracic, and from the first sacral to the tip of the coccyx. Thus, four pyramids are formed ; but the total surface area of the