THE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. 610 covering, like the bark (cortex) of a tree. In the young ftetus this cortex is smooth and uncreased (Fig. 553) ; but, as months go by, it becomes wrinkled, narrow depressions occurring all over it, and getting deeper and more numerous with its development (Fig. 554). These creases are infoldings of the cortex ; and, consequently, the more numerous and the deeper they are the greater is the amount of the peripheral gray substance. They are called fi&sureH, or .S'?(7c/. To the uncritical eye they seem to be nearly or quite without system in their arrange- ment, and they give the cerebrum an appearance not inaptly compared to that of thf mass of small intestines, which is seen when the abdomen is laid open and the omentum is lifted off. This coiled look has given the parts between the FiG.553.—Brain of six-months'human embryo, natural Fig. 554.—Cerebrum of eight-months' human size. (KoUiker.) embryo, left side. The insula is nearly covered in. (Testut.) gyri have been discovered to be for the most part so constant and regular that they have received names intended to be descriptive of their location or shape. They are similar on the two sides, but not identical, and are subject to considerable variations in different individuals. But before giving further consideration to the gyri and the fissures separating them, it is important to notice a few clefts which make larger divisions. The Longitudinal Fissure.—The two hemispheres are separated by the great longitudinal fissure. This goes through from top to bottom of the cerebrum in front and behind ; but for the middle two-fourths or more of its antero-posterior length it is stopjied when half-way down by the chief of the bands or commissures which connect the hemispheres, namely, the callosnm (corpus callosum). All of the other fissures are found alike in each hemisphere, except the transverse, which is half in one hemisphere and half in the other. The Sylvian Fissure.—Inspecting the hemisphere from the side or from below, the most pronounced peculiarity of its form is seen to be due to the presence of a cleft, Avhich starts near the centre of the base (at the anterior perforated sjmce), and, going upward and backward, cuts so deeply as to mark off very conspicu- ously a large mass from the middle portion of the hemisphere at its lowest part. This fissui'e is the Si/Jvian (fissnra Si/lviana) (Figs. 554, 555, 559). The greatest part of the undivided fissure is plainly seen only on the base of the hemisphere, but its divisions are visible only from the side. A little of the fissure proper shows laterally, but it divides immediately into anterior and posterior limbs, the former subdividing into two short branches, rtscendine/ and horizontal. The poste- rior limb courses backward and a little upward, ending with a decidedly upward inclination at about two-thirds of the distance from the front to the back of the hemisph(M-e, and half-way between summit and base. The Central Fissure.—In the middle region of the lateral surface above the Sylvian fissure is the central fissure (Rolandic) (Fig. 555), extending in an undulating course from the longitudinal fissure forward and downward almost (or quite) to the Sylvian. It begins behind the half-way point between front and