THE TESTICLES. 803 testicle, which is fixed by the giihernaciiluni, is prol)al)le. It must be noted too that the peritoneal pouch precedes tlie testicle, and, since the former is attached to a lower point in the gul>ernaculum, this fact may be explained in the same way. After descent has been completed, the remains of the central gubernacular VAS DEFERENS Fig. 871.~RiKht testic'lc, its iniLTiial surface. (Tostiit.) band may be found in the scrotal ligament already described ; the lateral bands, having ceased to act after tlie testicle has reached the external ring, are drawn down, and may be found in the form of scattered bundles (the internal cremaster of Henle), lying amidst the other elements of the s])ermatic cord. The peritoneal sac which preceded the testicle is at first continuous with the general peritoneal cavity. Shortly before birth, however, the upper part of the tube of communication becomes closed, and this obliteration extends gradually downward to within a short distance of the testicle. That ])ortion of the sac which surrounds the testicle is thereby completely cut oiF from the peritoneal cavity, and forms the tunica vaginalis. The obliterated portion of the pouch usually remains as a fibro-cellular thread, lying among the other elements of the cord. Sometimes this maybe traced as a distinct band from the peritoneum at the internal ring above to the tunica vaginalis below ; sometimes it is lost on the cord. Occasionally the tube of communication remains open, and then the abdominal viscera may pass into the tunica vaginalis, Hn'ming the congenital variety of hernia. In other eases the tu])e contracts, and forms a very minute canal, which may be traced downward a greater or less distance on the cord. A similar minute tube of peritoneum, observed in connection with the round ligament in the female, is called the cnnal of Niick. One or both testicles may fail to reach the scrotum until shortly after birth, or their descent may be delayed until puljcrty ; they may even remain permanently within the abdomen, or be arrested at any part of their course. The Tunica Vaginalis (" sheathlike coat") is a closed serous sac, of peritoneal origin, which invests the testicles and lines the scrotum, and may, therefore, be divided into visceral and parietal portions.