92 EMBBYOLOGY. in two cartilaginous barf centra are gradually encroached upon and finally disappear, the intervening por- tions persisting as the gelatinous substance of the intervertebral disks. The neural arches develop a little later than the centra, and ossify separately, uniting with the centra only after birth. The ribs arise by the chondrification and subsequent ossification of the niesen- chymatous tissue situated between the members of each pair of mesodermal somites, the ribs of the thoracic region being, however, the only ones which undergo complete development, extending in the wall of the body to the ventral surface, whei'e a number of them unite to form the sternum. In the other portions of the trunk and in the neck tliey remain small, and become united with the ver- tebrae, being represented in the cervical region by the ventral portions of the transverse processes, in the lumbar region by the costal processes, and in the sacrum by the lateral masses. The skull shows from the beginning no trace of being composed of distinct vertebi'fe, except in the occipital region. The first trace of the skull is found ilaced one on each side of the antei'ior end of the noto- chord. These are the paracJiordal cartilages (Fig. 105), and in front of them two other cartilages known as the trabeculm cranii are formed. These four carti- lages eventually unite together, and tlie tral)eculje uniting at their anterior extremities to form a plate, known as the ethmo-vomer- ine 2jlate, a cartilaginous basis cranii is formed, which later ex- tends dorsally behind and at the sides, leaving, however, the greater portion of the brain cov- ered only by membrane. About the third montli of development centres of ossification begin to ajipear in this chondro-cranium, resulting in the formation of a number of separate bones, which later fuse with one another to a and ethmoid bones, all of which -PTERYGOID RTILAGE. kel's cartilage mandibular). POPHYSIS. VOID CARTILAGE. FOR FACIAL NERVE. RIOTIC PSULE 3R GLOSSOPHARYNGEAL NERVE. '"'^EUMOGASTRIC NERVE. ''VP NOTOCHORb. PARACHORDAL -pr,-. CARTILAGE °GLOSSAL NERVE. Fig. 105.—Cranial cartilages of embryo. (C. S. Minot, after W. K. Parker.) certain extent to form the occipital, sphenoid are really composite bones. In addition to the bones which are thus developed, other elements occur in the skull and may be arranged in three groups : (I.) A number of bones are developed without being preformed in cartilage, their osseous matter being deposited directly in fibrous connective tissue. In this way—as membrane bones, as they are termed—are formed the parietals and frontals and the bones of the face, such as, for example, the nasals, malars, lachrymals, palatines, and maxillae. (II.) Around each auditory organ a cartilaginous case, the periotic capsule, devel- ops, quite independently of the primary chondro-cranium, filling up a gap in its walls on each side between the occipital and sphenoid bones, and from it are formed the petrous and mastoid portions of the temporal, the squamous and tympanic portions being membrane bone!^ which secondarily unite with the cap- sule. (III.) In each branchial arch a cartilaginous bar develops, these bars foi'ming what is termed the visceral skeleton, and certain of them become intimately related to the skull. The dorsal end of the maxillo-mandibular cartilage becomes entirely replaced by membrane bones, the maxillae, palatines, and internal pterygoid plates of the sphenoid ; while its lower end, known as MecheVs cartilage, ossifies and unites Avitli a number of membrane bones, which enclose it, to form the lower jaw or mandible, and also takes part in the formation