809 THE SCROTUM. above by the recto-vesical poueli ot" peritoiieum, l)olow this, by the recto-vesical fascia, which alone separates it from direct contact with the rectum. The poste- rior extremities or bases are widely separated ; the anterior converge, become narrowed, and near the base of the prostate unite on their inner sides with the corresponding vasa deferentia to form the ejaculatory ducts. Along the inner margin of eacli vesicle there runs the ani])ulla of the corresponding vas. Each vesicle consists of a central tube, four to six inches in length, from which are given off many blind diverticula, the whole being coiled into the form just described, and held thus by dense, tibrous tissue. In minute structure it closely resembles the vas. Like the latter it has an external fibrous coat derived from the recto-vesical fascia, and containing blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves. Its middle or muscular coat is thin, but it is arrangeil in superficial and deep longitudinal layers and a middle plane of circular fibres. The mucous membrane, areolar in structure, like that of the ami)ulla, is lined with non-ciliated, cylin- drical epithelium, beneath which is a deeper layer of polyhedral cells. Over the posterior surfaces and extending between the two vesicles is found a certain amount of smooth muscular tissue, also some longitudinal fibres, con- tinuous with those of the bladder wall. THE EJACULATORY DUCTS. AMPULLA SEMINAL VESICLE The ejaculatory ducts (Fig. 876), two in number, one right, the other left, are formed close to the base of the prostate by the union, at a very acute angle, of the ampulla of the vas and the corre- sponding seminal vesicle. They convey the seminal fluid from the vesicles and vasa deferentia into the urethra. From tlieir origins the two ducts run downward and forward, converging as they descend. After a very short course they enter the prostate, and pass forward side by side between its middle and lateral lobes, opening finally into the prostatic urethra by two small ellip- tical orifices, placed one on either side of the sinus jiocularis. Each duct is about three-quarters of an inch in length, and its lumen, diminishing from behind forward, is so small at the urethral end as barely to admit a very fine bristle. The walh of this tube are very thin ; the outer, areolar coat, found in the vas deferens and vesicula seminalis, has entirely disappeared ; and the outer plane of longitudinal muscle-fibres becomes blended with tlie prostate. The muscular coat proper is therefore reduced to two layers, an outer of circular, an inner of longitudinal fibres. Tlie mucous membrane resembles closely that found in the vas deferens. Arterial branches from the inferior vesical and middle hemorrhoidal su]i])lv the seminal vesicles and the extra-prostatic portion of the ejaculatory duct. The veins correspond, emptying into the vesico-prostatic plexus; the nerves are derived from the hypogastric plexus. The intra-prostatic portion of the ejac- ulatory duct receives its nutrient and nervous supply from the prostate. URETHRA Fig. 876.—Ejaculatory duct in sagittal sec- tion. (Testut.) THE SCROTUM. The scrotum (Fig. 877) is a pouch, which contains the testicles and a part of each spermatic cord. It consists of several layers which are from without inward as follows: (1) the integument; (2) the dartos ; (3) the intercolumnar fascia; (4) the cremasteric fascia; (5) the infundibuliform fascia; (6) the sub-