317 MVSCLEH MOVING THE DIGITS OF THE FOOT. Flexor Brevis Hallucis (Figs. 376, 379).—"The short flexor of the great toe." Synoni/in,Aexov brevis pollicis pedis, "the short flexor of the thumb of the foot." Situation, in the third layer of the muscles of the sole on the inner side.^ Origin, the inner border and under surface of the cuboid, and the cuneiform tendon of the tibialis pos- terior. Direction, forward and inward. Inser- tion, one (the inner) tendon : the inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe on the plantar aspect, fused with the abductor; the other tendon : the outer side of the same bone, symmetrical with the inner tendon, and conjoined with the adductor. Action, flexion of the whole of the great toe. Nerve, the internal plantar. Flexor Longus Digitorum (Figs. 374, 377, 378).—"The long flexor of the digits" of the foot, meaning the four small toes. Synonym, flexor perforans digitorum pedis, " the perforat- ing flexor of the digits of the foot," referring to the passage of its tendons of insertion through the corresponding tendons of the flexor brevis digitorum. Situation, deep in the back of the leg on the inner side, and in the sole. Orir/in, the middle two-fourths of the inner part of the hind surface of the tibia. Direction, downward behind the inner malleolus, then forward and out- ward into the sole. Insertion, by four tendons, each into the base of a third phalanx on the plantar surface. The undivided tendon is super- ficial to that of the flexor longus hallucis. Each digital tendon pei'forates the corresponding ten- don of the flexor brevis, just as the flexor pro- of the right sole. (Testut.) fundus perforates the flexor sublimis in the hand. Action, flexion of the last phalanges of the four small toes. Nerve, the posterior tibial. Flexor Accessorius (Fig. 379).—"The adjunct flexor," this being assistant to the flexor longus digitorum. Synonyms, flexor accessorius digitorum pedis, and quadratus plantte, " the square muscle of the sole." Situation, in the hind part of the second muscular layer of the sole. Origin, the calcaneum—one head being attached to the inner surface, the other to the outer surface in front of the external tubercle. Direction, forward. Insertion, the outer (hind) border and upper surface of the flexor longus digitorum. Action, flexion of the four small toes. It also brings the line of action of the flexor longus digitorum into the long axis of the foot. Nerve, the external plantar. Flexor Brevis Digitorum (Fig. 380).—" The short flexor of the digits," mean- ing the four small toes. Synonym, flexor perforatus digitorum pedis, " the per- forated flexor of the digits of the foot." Situation, in the first muscular layer or the sole, midway between its sides. Origin, the front of the inner tubercle of the calcaneum. Direction, forward. Insertion, by four tendons into the sides of the second phalanges of the four small toes on their plantar aspect. Each tendon is perforated opposite the first phalanx by the corresponding tendon of the long flexor. Action, flexion of the second phalanges of the four small toes. Nerve, the internal plantar. Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti Pedis (Fig. 379).—"The short flexor of the least ^ The layers of plantar muscles are numbered from the surface of the sole upward, as they occur in dissection.