549 THE OBLONGATA. nucleus cuneatus (Burdach); and counected with the last is the head of the dorsal horn, related, as in the first section, to a root of the trifacial nerve. A lower section exhibits further changes (Fig. 608). The pyramid and fillet are smaller; the head and base of the ventral horn are nearer; the tenth ner^^e has vanished ; all of the remaining gray masses are drawing together; the sides NUCLEUS GRACILIS Fig. 608.—Transverse section of oblongata at the crossing of the fillets. (Testut.) DORSAL MEDJAN FISSURE VENTRAL MEDIAN FISSURE Fig. 609.—Transverse section gata at the decussation of the (Testut. after Duval.) of ohlon- pyramids. (if the oblongata have grown up around the middle line, and have .shut in deep]\- the ventricle, -which in this lowest part is tubular; and from the nuclei gracilis and cuneatus thick bundles of fibres course ventrally, decassate in the middle line, and end in the fillet of the opposite side. Through the middle of the decmsation of the pyramids the section has a practically cir- cular outline (Fig. 609). The pyramid is smaller than before, and from it runs dorsally a bundle of fibres, which crosses its fellow of the opposite side in the middle line. The fillet is no longer seen ; the base and head of the ventral horn are clo.ser, being now sepa- rated only by the decussating bundles of the pyramid ; the base of the dorsal horn is nearer the centre of the section, its head is smaller ; the nucleus cuneatus is lo.st, and the nucleus gracilis stretches out as a long process from the base of the dorsal horn. The venti-al and dorsal median fissures are shallow, and from the latter a neurogliar septum stretches to the central gray mass. Xerve-roots are given oif from the heads of both horns. Finally, a section at the line between oblongata and cord (Fig. 610) shows that the nucleus gracilis has been left above, and that the other grav masses are completely united, and are ar- ranged in a form suggestive of the letter X, the canal being in tlie centre of the crossing arms. The dorsal limbs of the X are the dorsal horns, the ventral limbs the ventral horns, the base of each horn beins the part near the centre, the head being the free extremity. In each lateral half, between the dorsal horn and the D3R5AL MEDIAN FIS3UR DORSO-LATERAL —^ / COLUMN .CROSSED PYRAM- IDAL TRACT VENTRAL MEDIAN FISSURE Fig. 610.—Transverse section of the oblongata at its lower end. (Testut.)