THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 812 THE SPERMATIC CORD. The spermatic cord forms the pedicle of the testicle, and consists of the fol- lowing parts: (1) the vas deferens; (2) arteries ; (3) veins; (4) lymphatics ; (5) nerves; (6) the processus vaginalis ; (7) the internal cremaster of Heiile. These are cemented together by a loose areolar tissue, continuous with the subperitoneal fascia, and are surrounded by certain layers, continuous with those found in the scrotum. The vas deferens (page 807) forms the nucleus of the cord. The spermatic artery lies in front of, the deferential artery is placed behind, the vas. The veins from the testicle, six or seven in number, form the pampiniform plexus, which runs upward in frctnt of and surrounding the spermatic artery. The veins from, the epididymis form a group of two or three trunks only, which run upward behind the vas. The lymphatics accompany the veins. Tiie nerves I'un with the arteries. The processus vaginalis may run to the testicle or be lost at any level of the cord. The internal cremaster of Henle, in the form of scattered bundles, is supposed to represent the lateral bands of the gubernaculum. The coveriiif/s are, from without inward, the skin, dartos or superficial fascia, intercolumnar fascia, cremasteric fascia, and infundibuliform fascia. At the level of the external ring the four outer coverings are lost. From this point the cord traverses the inguinal canal, and at the internal ring its elements diverge, the cord as such ceasing to exist. THE PENIS. The penis (Figs. 879-886) is the male organ of copulation. It takes origin in the perineal region between the superficial perineal fascia and the inferior SPONGY URETHRA FifJ. 879.—The male urethra, in sagittal section. (Testut.) layer of the triangular ligament. Running upward and forward parallel with the ischid-pubic rami, it reaches a point above the scrotum and in front of the sym- physis, where it becomes free and surrounded by a cutaneous covering. It may be divided into an anterior expanded extremity or glans, a posterior perineal extremity or root, and an intervening portion, called the body. The first will be t