847 RELATIONAL ANATOMY. By F. H. GERRISH. IN the chapters on Systematic Anatomy much has been pi'esented concerning; the relations existing between the parts and organs described. It wouhl doubtless be useful to have all of these statements gathered into a single section, but the prescribed limits of this work forbid such a course. The purpose of this chapter is to introduce certain matters which did not conveniently fall into line with any of the topics of Systematic Anatomy, to emphasize some of the most important points wliich liuve previously been made, and to show by methods, hitherto little employed, facts of interest and value concerning the structure of the body. The chapter will be divided into three parts, each of which will be devoted to a different method of studying Relational Anatomy. In the first part will be presented a series of plane sections of the trunk and limbs ; in the second part, reproductions of photographs of the surface; and in the third part, skiagraphs of every portion of the body, whose osseous structure can be profitabl_y studied by the aid of the so-called A'-rays. However full maybe the descriptions in such a chapter, its chief and essential value will always reside in the pictures ; and those that are here given are so clear, and tell their own story so distinctly, tliat oidy a few words of introduction for each are needed, and the descriptive text can, therefore, be reduced to a minimum. It is recommended that each of these pictures be studied in connection with everything else in the book which bears upon tlie subjects involved. For examjile, in considering the region of the forearm, the systematic anatomy of the bones, muscles, fascise, arteries, veins, lymphatics, and nerves of the part should be studied anew ; next, the plane section should be examined with care, and the location of every organ fixed in mind ; then the various photogra])hs of the surface of the part should receive attention ; and, finally, the corresponding skiagraphs should be regarded. By the combination of all these methods the student will be able to obtain all of the anatomical information of the locality that a text-book can afford. I. PLANE SECTIONS. In each of these pictures the upper surface of the lower segment resulting from the section is shown—in other words, the upper segment has been removed, and we look down upon the specimen. In the ease of the sections of the limbs we may profitably imagine them to be the stumps of amputations of the opposite limbs at the same level—that is, they present such a view as would be given by the cut surface of the proximal part on the other side. In the representations of sections of the trunk much lack of bilateral svm- metry will be found, not only as concerns details, but also in the outlines of the figure. This is due to several causes. Perfect symmetry of contour on the opposite sides is practically unknown ; the corresponding parts are rarely exactly