203 THE ARTICULATIONS. By GEORGE WOOLSEY. THE articulations, or johds, are the connections existing between contignous parts of the recent hnnum skeleton. Softer substances intervene between the ends of the bones, and a fibrous capsule, with or without accessory ligaments, binds them together. The articular surfaces, or ends of the bones, which are expanded in the case of long bones, are coated by a layer of connective tissue, or hyaline, or white fibro-cartilage. When hyaline cartilage is present as articular cartilage, its free surfaces are very smooth, and thus minimize friction, and it serves to dimin- ish jars by its elasticity. It is thickest where the ])ressure is the greatest. The white fibro-eartilage occurs as connecting fibro-rartihige in the discs between the vertebrte and in the symphysis pubis ; as interartieular fbro-cartilnge in the plates in the temporo-mandibular and sterno-clavicular joints, and in the menisci in the knee-joint; and as marginal jibro-cartUage in the shoulder and hip-joints^ where it deepens the sockets. The interarticular fibro-cartilages jiartly or com- pletely divide the joint into two halves; they adjust dissimilar bony surfaces,,, increase the motion and security, and act as buffers to break shocks. Connective tissue exists between contiguous bones of the skull as suture nienihrane. The ligaments, which arc the principal objects of study in this section, are- strong, inextensible, but pliant bantls of white fibrous tissue, continuous Avith the periosteum of the bones they unite. They occur in the shape of a more or less perfect capsule, usually reinforced where there is the most strain by external accessory bands or ligaments derived from intermuscular septa, modified tendons, or regressed muscles. ! In joints moving on many axes the entire capsule and surrounding muscles jare nearly uniformly strong ; in those moving on one axis the lateral parts of the jcapsule are strengthened and designated as lateral ligaments. In some cases ligaments are formed of yellow elastic tissue, as the ligamenta subflava, where lithe parts united are not in contact. The deep surface of the capsule is lined by the synovial membrane, which extends to, but not over, the articular cartilage. In the shape of folds or fringes it frequently projects into the joint-cavity, especially near the margin of the car- tilage, where, often padded with fat, it fills up the interstices between the bones. This part of the membrane is highly vascular and liable to become villous and )eduncu]atcd, in which case it may cause pain by being pinched between the joint-surfaces. It secretes a thick, glairy fluid called synoria, which lubricates he joint. The synovial cavity sometimes communicates with bursas and vaginal ynovial membranes in the neighborhood of a joint. Embryologically, a joint is formed from the tissue between the adjacent })arts |if the skeleton. This embryonic tissue may become the fibrous tissue of the juture membrane where the bones are developed in membrane, as in most of jhe bones of the skull ; or it may become the thicker fibro-cartilage of the inter- ertebral discs, symphysis pubis, etc., where the bones are developed in cartilage. L partial synovial membrane may occur in this intervening cartilage. In more lovable joints the synovial sac is more extensive, and the fibro-cartilage is inter-