365 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. THE blood is the vehicle by which nourishing materials are carried to the tis- sues, and many eifete substances conveyed away from them. It is contained in a continuous series of chambers and tubes, which constitute the blood-vascular system. The chambers are the compartments of the heart, and the tubes are the arteries, the capillaries, and the veins—including under the last term not only the veins projier, but also certain channels which are called venous sinuses. The arteries are the vessels which carry blood from the heart to the tissues ; the capil- laries are those through whose delicate walls the interchange of nutrient and waste matters takes place in the midst of the tissues; and the veins are the vessels which convey the blood from the tissues to the heart. The whole blood-vascular system is closed in the normal condition, and no blood escapes from it, with two exceptions, which are as follows : in the female, during the child-bearing portion of her life, there is a periodical discharge of blood through ruptured vessels ; and in the spleen of all persons the blood leaves the minute vessels, and flows through wall-less tubes in the parenchyma of the organ. In the entire blood-vascular system one structural feature is constant—the serous membrane which lines it. Muscular and fibrous coats in most parts ai^e found surrounding the serous, but they are not, like it, invariable. The import- ance of this smoothest of all membranes as a lining for the heart and vessels is appreciated, when we consider that any roughness of a surface over which blood flows causes clotting of the fluid, and this results in the plugging of vessels, and the consequent starvation of the parts which they should supply with blood. THE HEART. By F. H. GERRISH. The heart (Latin cor, or cardia) is tlie central organ of the vascular system. It is the force-pump which propels the blood through the vessels. In some animals it has but one cavity, in others it has two, in still others three. In man there are really two hearts, each having two chambers. The two hearts in the adult may be compared to a block of two houses, which are independent of each other except for the fact that the partition wall between them is common to both. During intrauterine life there is a door of communication between the upper chamber of one and the corresponding cavity of the other ; but this is closed at l)irth, and thenceforward the blood cannot get from one side to the other without leaving the heart and going by a roundabout path. These two hearts are called, on the basis of their independence, the 7'ifyht heart and the left heart respectively ; on the ground of their union, they are named the right side of the heart and the left side of the heart respectively. Both sets of designations ai'e misleading as regards the relative situation of the two organs (or sides of the same organ), for they are not placed right and left, but one—the right—is in front of the other. One chamber of each is called auricle, because of the resemblance of an appendage of it to an animal's external ear; the other