533 THE REGION OF THE THIRD VENTRICLE. Along the mesial surface from tlie porta to the aqueduct is a groove, the sidcvs of Monro (usually but faintly marked), indicating the line of junction of the dorsal and ventral zones^ into which morphologists divide the encephalon. The upper surface is divided into a postero-internal portion and an antero- external portion by an oblique groove. Upon the former of these areas lies the velum interpositiim, whose free edge, the choroid ])lexus of the lateral ventricle, rests upon the latter area. A portion of this surface beyond the plexus is often, perliaps usually, seen in the floor of the lateral ventricle, separated from the caudate nucleus by the ttenia semicii'cularis. In the diagrams (Figs. 549 and 552), which represented the first and second vesicles developing separately, the tlialamus manifestly could have no place in the lateral ventricle; and it is held by AVilder that it is always absolutely excluded from this cavity. At the extreme front of this surface is a rounded end, the anterior tubercle. Behind at the inner side of the thalamus is another tubercle, the j^ulvinar ("couch"), Avhich extends downward, and occupies the posterior surface. At the lower and outer portion of the posterior surface are the two corpora genicidata ("the bended-knee bodies"), internal and external (Fig. 597), connected behind with tlic corjiora quadrigemiua by the pjo.'sterior and anterior brachia, and in front continued into the optic tract. The outer surface and anterior end are closely related to the internal capsule, into which they send many fibres. The under surface rests upon a forward extension of the tegmentum. THIRD VENTRICLE Fig. 589.—Coronal section through the lateral and third ventricles, showins the velum interpositum push- ing the choroid plexuses (C. P.) into the lateral ventricles above the thalami. (Semidiagrammatic; (Testut.) Tlie great bulk of the thalamus is gray substance, which is divided into outer and inner nvclei by a thin, curved, white layer. The two thfilami ai'e connected by a gray band, the middle (soft) corinnis.wre, which crosses the third ventricle nearly at its centre. They are also united by the floor of the ventricle. The roof of the third ventricle is formed by the relum iixterpositum (Fig. 589), ^v]li(■h has already l>een described. The endyma lining the ventricular cavity is reflected from the tlialami onto the under surface of the velum along the lines marked by the peduncles of the epiphysis (pineal body). From the under sur- face of the velum hang the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle, covered, of course, by the endyma. Authors differ widely concerning the extent of the floor of the third ventricle. Some include every ])art of the walls excepting the sides and roof, thus making the floor embrace all of the jiarts on or near tlie middle line below the plane of the stalks of the c])iphysis (pineal peduncles), which indicate the upjiermost lateral boun- daries. Others apply the name " floor" oidy to the structures extending from the location of the optic chiasma back to the opening of the aqueduct, considering all from the chiasma to the junction of the pineal peduncle with the fornix as