174 THE BONES. This is so called from the numl^er of larger and smaller apertures for the sub- j divisions of the eighth or auditory nerve on either side of a transverse falciform (•' sickle-shaped ") crest, above which, in front, is the internal orifice of the aque- duct of Fedlopim for the seventh or facial nerve. The aqueduct of Fallopius passes outward to the genu, where it bends l)ackward to pass along above and in- ternal to the tympanum, behind which it bends sharply downward to the stylo- mastoid foramen. Behind the meatus is the small, slit-like opening of the aque- ductm vestihuli (" wnter-inpe of the vestibule"), occupied in the adult by vessels i and a process of dura, and al>ove and in front of the latter is a small opening, the remains of the Jioccular fossa, very large in young bones. The anterior surface looks forward, outward, and upward into the middle cranial fossa. A depression is seen near the apex for the Gasserian ganglion, external and inferior to which is the end of the bony carotid canal. Behind this are two small grooves leading backward and outward to foramina—the larger and internal to the hiatus ("gaping") Fallopii, which leads to the geniculate ganglion in the aqueduct of Fallopius, and transmits the great superficial petrosal nerve, while the smaller and external is for the small petrosal nerve. Behind these, and between the petro-squamous suture externally and an eminence formed by the superior semicircular canal internally, the bone is thin and foi'ms the roof of the tympanimi. The inferior or basilar surface presents posteriorly, between the mast<jid and styloid processes, the stylo-mastoid forameUy the exit of the facial nerve from the aqueduct of Fallopius. The styloid process itself projects downward and for- ward, for possibly 2 inches, from its base, which is imbedded between the vaginal process of the tympanic and the petrosal bone. It attaches two ligaments and three Fig. 195.—The right temporal bone, viewed from below. (Testut.) muscles. Internal to this foramen and process is the small quadrilateral jvgulm facet, with which the jugular process of tlie occipital unit(\s by cartilage unti' ossification at the twentieth year. In front of and internal to this facet is th'j smooth, deep jugular fossa, which with the jugular notch of the occipital comj pletes the jugular foramen. In front of the fossa is the carotid foramen, the lowej end of the carotid caned, for the internal carotid artery, which ascends verticalh]