418 THE BLOOD-VASCULAB SYSTEM. Variations.—The ulnar often arises from the brachial in the arm, and some- times even from the axillary. The vessel is occasionally superficially situated, being in front of the superficial flexor muscles instead of covered by them. Surgical Anatomy (Fig. 46.">).—The ulnar artery can be exposed for ligation in any part of its course, the muscle and tcnd(jn of the flexor carpi ulnaris being the guide fin- finding the vessel. In the U2>})er part of its course the artery is covered by the superficial flexor muscles, and, in order to reach it after dividing the skin and superficial fascia, the flex(jr carpi ulnaris is separated from the rest of the group, and the artery is exposed, Avitli its veufe comites, the ulnar nerve being to the outer side. In the lower half of its course the artery is superficial, and can be exposed by an incision made along the outer border of the tendon of SUPERIOR PROFUN DA INFERIOR PROFU N DA MUSCULO- SPIRAL NERVE POSTERIOR ULNAR RECURRENT f POSTERIOR J INTEROSSEOUS t RECURRENT Fig. 461.—Anastomoses at the back of the elbow. (Testut.) ANASTOMOTICA — MAGNA Fig. 4b2.—Arteries lu the region of the bend of the elbow. (Testut.) the flexor cai'pi ulnaris, \vhich should divide the skin, superficial fiiscia, and deep fascia. The artery is here accompanied by the ulnar nerve which is internal and also by vente comites. The Branches of the ulnar are divided into three groups, those in the foreai'm, those in the wrist, and those in the hand. In the forearm the branches are the recurrent arteries, anterior and posterior, the interosseous, and the muscular. The recurrent branches wind upward and inward, the anterior in front and the posterior behind the inner condyle, to anastomose Avith the inferior ])rofunda and anastomotica magna branches of the brachial. The interosseous is a short trunk which divides into two branches. The anterior intcrrjsseous passes downward on the anterior surfiice of the inter- osseous membrane to the carpus, and supplies the deep layer of muscles. The posterior interosseous arises above the upper margin of the interosseous membrane, to the posterior surface of which it runs ; here it gives oft' an ascending, or recur- rent, branch, which passes up to the posterior surface of the internal condyle to