269 MUSCLES 310 VING THE WHOLE HAND. MUSCLES MOVING THE WHOLE HAND. Flexors. Extensors. Flexor carpi radialis. [Flexor] pal maris longus. Flexor carpi iiliiaris. Extensor carpi radialis longus. Extensor carpi radialis hrcvis. Extensor carpi ulnaris. OLECRA- NON EXTERNAL CONDYLE HEAD OF RADIUS Fir,. (Testut.) ULNA RAblUS 295.—Supinator of right side. All arise from the humerus, and the flexor and extensor on the ulnar side come from the ulna also. The palmaris longus is inserted into the palmar fascia. All which have " carpi" in their names are in- serted into '/ftrfocarpal bones, and only one of them into any part of the carpus also. Their action, however, is correctly indicated by their names, the wrist, carrying the rest of the hand, being alternately flexed and extended. The second, third, and fourth metacarpal bones have prac- tically no motion on the carpus, and the first and fifth are moved by special muscles. The pal- maris longus, though primarily a tensor of the palmar fascia, secondarily is a flexor of the hand —-just as the tensor vaginse feraoris i,5 first a tightener of the fascia lata, and then an abduc- tor of the thigh—and, therefore, a bracketed word implying this, and aiding the grouping by making a uniformity of name which corresponds with the practical identity of action, has been prefixed. Tlie adduction of the hand is accom- plished by tlie simultaneous action of the flexor carpi ulnaris and the extensor carpi ulnaris ; its abduction by the simultaneous action of the flexor carpi radialis and the extensor carpi radialis longus. Observe that the ccternal part of the lower end of the humerus gives origin to the e.rten- sors, the internal to the flexors. At their origin from the internal condyle and its neighborhood the flexors of the hand ai'e so blended with the pronator teres and the flexor sublimis digitorum as to constitute one mass. On and about the external condyle is a similar association of extensors and supinator. Flexor Carpi Radialis (Figs. 29(3, 297).—" The flexor of the wrist on the radial side." Sitimfion, in the front of the forearm. Orir/in, the inner condyle of the humerus. Direction, downward and a little outward. Insertion, the ba.se of the second metacarpal bone on its palmar aspect. Action, flexion and slight pronation of the hand. In conjunction with the extensor carpi radialis longus it abducts the hand. Nerve, the median. [Flexor] Palmaris Longus (Fig. 296).—"The long palmar [flexor] muscle." Situation, in the front of the forearm. Orir/in, the inner condyle of the humerus. Direction, downward and slightly outward. Insertion, the palmar fascia and anterior annular ligament. Action : it tightens the fiiscia of the palm, and then flexes the hand. Nerve, the median. Flexor Carpi Ulnaris (Figs. 296, 298, 310).—"The flexor of the wrist on the ulnar side." Sitn/ition, in the front and inner border of the forearm. Origin, one head : the inner condyle of the humerus ; the other head : the inner side of the olecranon and the upper two-thirds of the hind border of the ulna. Direction, downward. Insertion, the pisiform, unciform, and fifth metacarpal bones. Action, flexion of the hand. In conjunction with the extensor carpi ulnaris it adducts the hand. Xerve, the ulnar. Extensor Carpi Radialis Longus (Figs. 299, 300).—" The long extensor of the wrist on the radial side." Situation, in the outer border of the forearm. Origin, the lower third of the external condylar ridge of the humerus. Direc-