157 THE FIBULA. oTooves the posterior border. The external surface of the lower extremity of the bono, except for a narrow articular border below, is rough for ligaments which attach it to the fibula. The tibia is twisted, so that when the axis of tlie upper end is transverse that of the lower end is inclined from without inward and forward at an angle aver- aging 6°-20°, but sometimes varying between 0° and 48°. Ossification.—Each epi2)hysis ossifies from a single centre. That in the upper end includes the tubercle and appears first. The lower end unites with the shaft at the eighteenth or nineteenth year, the upper end in the twenty-first or twenty- second year. THE FIBULA. i The fibula ("clasp" or "brace") (Figs. 176, 177) is the slender outer bone j of the leg. It reaches lower than, but not as high as, the tibia. Its upper end 1 is behind the plane of the lower end, and its shaft is slightly curved and very I variable in its contour. (The Greek name of this bone is perone, the adjective I from which (" peroneal") is synonymous with " fibular.") ! The iqxper exfremih/ or Jtcad is irregularly expanded, and presents above and i internally a small obliquely placed articular facet, looking upward, inward, and forward, articulating with the facet on the outer tuberosity of the tibia. Behind I and slightly external to the facet rises a conical eminence, the styloid process, to I which the short external lateral ligament of the knee is attached, while to a slight ' depression in front of and external to it are attached the external lateral ligament and the tendon of the biceps. The loiver extremity is a thick pyramidal process which forms the external mal- < leolus (" little hammer "). The latter is lower, more posterior, and more promi- nent than the internal malleolus. Its inner surface presents in front a triangular facet for articulation with the onter fiicet on the astragalus, above which is a rough triangular surface for the inferior interosseous ligament. Behind the facet is a rough dejiression for the attachment and reception of the hind fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle. The posterior surface is grooved for the peronei longus and brevis. The external surface is subcutaneous and continuous with a subcutaneous triangular surface tapering upward for two or three inches upon the shaft. The shaft has four variable surfaces, each giving origin to a muscle or a group of muscles which produce a particular motion of the foot. The four borders limiting these surfaces attach fibrous septa separating the muscles or muscle- I groups. The lower fourth of the shaft is twisted outward. The well-marked 1 antero-external border begins in front of the head, and bifurcates in the lower INTERNAL BORDER- FIBULA Fig. 178—Horizontal section of tlie bones of the leg at the junction of the upper and middle thirds, show- ing their borders and surfaces and the relations of the interosseous membrane. (Testut.) j fourth to include the triangular subcutaneous surface above mentioned. To it is attached the anterior tibial fascia which separates the peronei longus and brevis, which pronate the foot and occupy the external or pronedor surface, from the extensores longus digitorum and proprius hallucis and the peroneus tertius, which