THE ARTERIES. 421 the fourth the contiguous sides of the middle and index fingers ; opposite the wel» of the fingers the arteries are joined by the interosseous branches from the deep jjalmar arch. The Radial Artery (Figs. 462, 465). The radial arterv arises from the brachial a half inch below the bend of the elbow. It passes downward along the radial side of the forearm, internal to the muscular bellv and tendon of the brachio-radialis muscle ; a little above the wrist- joint it winds around the lower end of the radius to the posterior surface of the carpus ; then passes into the hand at the base of the first interosseous space, and forms the deep palmar arch by anastomosing Avith the communicating or deep palmar branch of the ulnar. Eelations of the Eadial in the Forearm. In front. Skin, superficial and deep fascia?, belly of brachio-radialis. Internally. Pronator radii teres. Flexor carpi radialis. Radial artery. Behind. Externally. Brachio - radi- alis. Radial nerve. Radius covered by supinator. Flexor sublimis digitorum. Pronator teres. Flexor longus pollicis. Pronator quadratus. Variations.—The radial frequently springs from the brachial in the arm, and may even arise from the axillary. Some- times it is very small, its place being taken by branches from the ulnar and interosseous, and in this case it may be that no pulse can be found in the usual position. Surgical Anatomy (Fig. 463).—The radial can be exposed for ligation in any part of the forearm by an incision along the inner border of the brachio-radialis muscle, its belly above, its tendon below; after dividing the skin, superficial and deep fasciae, the muscle is drawn to the outer side and the artery exposed, ac- companied by venae comites and by the radial nerve, which is external. Branches.—The branches of the ra- dial are divided into three groups : those ■ , . 1 J? , ] • li • J. 1 Fig. 465.—Arteries of the forearm—front vieTT. m the forearm, those in the wrist, and (Testut.) those in the hand. The branches in the forearm are radial recurrent, muscular, anterior radial carpal, and the su]ierfieialis volae. The radial recurrent passes upward between the brachialis and the brachio-radialis to the anterior aspect of the external con-