349 THE FASCLE. By F. H. GERRISH. THE word fascia, meaning literally a " band" or " bandage," is applied to fibrou.-, membranous expansions of greater or less density, Avhich are wrap])ed around various organs, most conspicuously muscles, and serve to keep them in definite aiid intimate relation with one another. The term is also used to desig- nate certain strong, fibrous sheets which are stretched between bony parts. Fasciae are conventionally divided into two groups or varieties—the superficial and the deep. These terms, however, convey very little useful information about the organs to which they are applied. Some members of each group are struct- urally indistinguishable from typical specimens of the other. The ground of distinction upon which the names are based is their situation ; but one variety ■ will frequently be found to shade off by almost imperceptible gradations into the other, even on the same plane. In their typical forms, however, the superficial fascia is a loose, extensible structure; the deep fascia is firm, strong, and inextensible. THE SUPERFICIAL FASCIA. Immediately beneath the skin in almost every part of the body is a continuous layer of areolar tissue, which is called the mperficial fascia. In most cases it diifers in no essential respect from the areolar tissue in other localities : it contains fat-cells, it furnishes a suitable medium for the lodgement of vessels and nerves on their way to and from various organs, and it both connects and separates structures between which it is interposed—always the skin on one surface, and usually the deep fascia on the other. It varies greatly in thickness, in some places being extremely thin and delicate, and in others very thick and large- meshed, the belly and buttock furnishing striking illustrations of the latter con- dition. Though it usually permits free movement of the skin on the subjacent parts, there are notable exceptions to the rule, as in the jialm and sole, where it contains strong bands which lash down the skin tightly, and almost deprive it of mobility. The superficial fascia is in some parts peculiarly modified : in the scrotum it contains no fat-cells, has mingled with its fibrous tissues a quantity of uustriped muscle, and is known as the dartos; in certain places it becomes condensed into a fibrous film, as in the cribriform fascia, -which is stretched across the saphenous opening. Sometimes it is directly continuous with the other (deep) fascia, the latter thinning out and gradually losing itself in the areolar tissue. Occasionally the sujierfieial adheres to the deep along a line of considerable length, as on the thigh near the inguinal ligament, and thus a subcutaneous accumulation of fluid is steered off in a special direction, as would not be the case but for this peculiarity. Two distinct layers are found in certain situations, as on the front of the abdo- men, and they may differ considerably in structure, the more superficial generally containing more fat-cells, the deeper being more condensed. The veins which