50 ELEMENT A B Y TISS UES. Gelatinous Tissue. This tissue is jelly-like, as its name implies. It is also called mucous tissue and mucoid tissue. No ty2:>ical example of it occurs in the adult body ; but the gelatin of Wharton in tlie umbilical cord illustrates it perfectly. Here is seen a protojilasmic network, formed by the union of the processes of cells, which are identical with those of white fibrous tissue. In the meshes of this reticulum is a semifluid ground substance. This tissue is the most immature form of fibrous tissue. The vitreous body (or humor) of the eye is composed of gelatinous tissue ; but the fibrous element is so slightly developed that its existence is by some observers denied, and almost all of the cells have disappeared, the few which remain being shrunken and indistinct. The vitreous is in large part (about 99 per cent.) water, and its appearance is that of a mass of beautifully transparent, colorless, and delicate jelly. The service performed by the vitreous is strictly sustentacular. It is the stuffing which keeps the ball of the eye in its globular shape, preventing the wrinkling of the retina, wdiich would be utterly destructive of definiteness of sight. When lost, the vitreous is not restored, having a low vitality and prac- tically no recuperative power. Adenoid Reticular Tissue. The word reticulum is the diminutive of the Latin rete, "a net," and conse- quently means "a little net." "Adenoid" comes from the Greek word for "gland," and signifies "gland-like." Adenoid reticular tissue, therefore, means the tissue forming the network in gland-like structures, ])articular reference being had to the framework of the so-called lymphatic glands, which are far l)etter named " nodes," since they are not real glands. This network has points of resemblance to areolar tis- sue—may, indeed, be regaixled as a modification of it. The reticulum consists of strands of white fibrous tissue, with few, if any, yellow fibres intermingled, and these delicate trabecula) ("little beams"), which support the proper substance of the node, are nearly or quite covered by fibrous-tissue cells in the shape of broad, thin plates Fig. 36.-Adenoid retic- closclv applied and wraiiped around them (Fig. 36). ular tissue. (F. H. G.) • i } J 1 . . ,. , }, ,S . ' 1 hough the most characteristic display ot this tissue is in the lymphatic nodes, it is widely distributed in the body, and is particularly abundant in mucous membranes. Neuroglia. Literally, the word neuroglia means " nerve-glue," and is misleading, for it is used as the name of a network supporting the nerve-substance of the brain i 7] Fig. 37.—Neuroglia cells. (F. H. G.) and spinal cord. This reticulum is not made of white fibrous tissue, as is that