486 THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. UPPER END OF THORACIC DUCT times carry chyle also (see page 57). The chyle-bearing lymphatics do not differ structurally from t)ther vessels of the system' ; but they are oi'tcn called htdrals (literally "pertaining to milk") because, during the period of intestinal dio;estion, when they are tilled with chyle, which is white, they look as if distended with milk, whose Ijatin name is lac. The course of the fluid in the lymphatics is always from the periphery toward the centre, the materials being sucked up, as it were, in the distal parts of the body, and carried proximally. Consequently the lymphatic system is often spoken of as " the absorbent sys- tem." But this is an undesirable name, inas- much as the veins, also, dt) considerable absorption work. A close relationship has long been recognized between the lymphatics and the true serous mem- branes. These closed sacs are to be regarded as prodigiously expanded lymjih-spaces, and are sometimes and appropri- ately called lymph-cham- bers. The true stomata of these serous membranes are the mouths of h mph- atic vessels. The recog- nition of this continuity of lymphatic and serous surfaces is of great physio- logic and pathologic im- portance. The Structure of Lymph-vessels.—The lymphatics resemble the veins in their structure, as well as in their arrange- ment. The smallest have but a single coat, com- posed of epithelial cells w ith notched edges, which fit accurately -with those of the adjacent cells (Fig. 513). The larger vessels have three tunics : an inner one of epithelium (like that described al>ove) and a little yellow fibrous tissue ; a middle, made up of muscular and yellow fibrous tissues ; and an outer, consisting of white fibrous tissue, with which is mixed a small amount of yellow. All of the coats are so thin as to be transjiarent. At very short intervals are valves, formed by folds of the lining membrane (Fig. 514). The position of a valve is marked by a circular constriction, j^roximal to which is a pronounced bulge ; and in this way a peculiar beaded or moniliform (" necklace-like ") appear- ance is produced. The valves prevent backward flow of the lymph. The lymphatics are divided into two sets, the superficial and the deep, accord- ing to their situation. The superficial li/mph-ressels course in the subcutaneous areolar tissue. In the limbs they are more abundant upon the inner and flexor ASCENDING LU Fig. 51C.—The thoracic duct an<3 right lymphatic duct. (Testut.)