THE EPITHELIAL TISSUES. 43 cells. (F. H. G.) V, Fig. 19.—End view of a number of epi- thelial cells, presenting tlie appearance of a pavement. (Retzius.) Fig. 20.—Side view of some of the cells of "Fig. 19, sliowing that they are long and slen- der. (Retzius.) are cha- as much like a pavement—indeed, are even more suggestive of one than are the others (Figs. 19, 20). While these classes include nearly all epithelial cells, many cells have pecu- liarities which are dis- tinguishing, and it is convenient to designate them by descriptive names, such as ciliated and pricJde, from their appendages; sensory or neuro-, from their rela- tion to the periphery of a special-sense organ ; pigmented, from their coloration ; goblet or chalice, from their mod- ification of .shape ; tran- sitional, from their being of a rapidly varying form; glandular, from their work in secretion. A brief mention of the chief points of each variety is desirable. Ciliated cells (Fig. 21) in man are always of the columnar form, and racterized by the projection from their free extremity of a number of delicate processes strongly suggestive of eyelashes, and hence called cilia. The cilia have a constant vibrating motion, with a strong stroke in one direction and a weak one in the other. They are sit- uated in various parts, but never where they are likely to be subjected to hard usage. Thus, they are nowhere in the alimentary tract, where the masses of food and excrement would injure them ; but they exist almost everywhere in the breathing passages, which transmit nothing hurtful to them. Their more powerful stroke is always made in the same direction ; thus, in the res- piratory tract it is invariably such that the mucus which smears the surface is moved toward the open end of the system—that is, from the deep parts of the lung to the surface of the body. Cilia are found in the adult mainly in the organs of breathing and those of generation. Prickle-cells (Fig. 22) exist in the middle layers of the stratified epithelium of the epidermis, the outer layer of the skin. They are poly- hedral, and the little spaces between them are bridged over with delicate threads, which break when the cells are separated and present the appearance of short, rigid spines. Sensory epithelium, or neuro-epithelium cells (Figs. 23, 24), are found in close relation with the filamentous terminals of the nerves devoted to ta.ste, smell, hearing, and sight; from which fact the names sensory and neuro- (" nerve ") are derived. Such a cell is intimately associated at its attached end with the periph- ery of a sensitive nerve, and at its free extremity is quite gen- erally pi'olonged into a stiff, hair-like process, which may project beyond the plane of the surrounding surface. These distal bristles receive a shock from a wave of the fluid into which they ])rotrude, and this causes a thrill to pass through the cell and to agitate the nerve-filament, which carries the imjiression to the nerve-centre. Pigmented cells are found in various situations. They are of different shapes, generally very irregular, and have been invaded by (perhaps filled with) black particles. In the colored races the lower layers of the epithelium of the skin are highly charged with them. Fig. 21.—Two conoidal epi- thelial cells, their free ends fur- nished with cilia. (F. H. G.) Fig. 22.—Priclcle-