823 THE OVARIES. compartment of the pelvis, where they are connected, one on either side of tlie uterus, with the posterior hiyer of the broad litranients. On the surface of the abdominal wall, their pcisition is indicated by the mid-point of a line drawn from the anterior su])eri()r s])inous process of the ilium to the ])ubic symphysis. Dimensions, Color, and Consistence.—Each ovary is about an inch and a half in lengtii, tliree-(juarters of an inch in breadth, from one-third to one-half an inch in thickness, and weighs from one to two drachms. During pregnancy, the gland which contains the corpus luteum is much larger than its fellow. In the child the ovaries are rosy white, in the adult they are reddish ; and during men- struation, owing to the vascular engorgement, they assume a deeper tinge. They resemble the testicle in consistence, but are much less dense. In the old, the entire gland atropiiies, and becomes hard and fibrous. Conformation and Relations.—Each ovary presents for examination two sur- faces, a superior or mesial, and an inferior or lateral ; two borders, an anterior and a posterior; and two extremities, an external or superior, and an internal or inferior. The superior surface, convex and free, looks upward, forward, and in- ward, and is more or less covered by the fimbriae of the Fallopian tube and the meso-salpinx. The inferior surface, turned toward the side wall of the pelvis, often reposes in a shallow depression, tlie orarian fossa, which is l)ounded behind and below by the internal iliac vessels and the ureter, above by the external iliac vessels, and in fnjut by the pelvic attachment of the broad ligament. The anterior border, almost straight, is attached to the posterior layer of the broad ligament, between the layers of which the vessels and nerves run to enter the ovary at a depression in this border, called the hilum. The posfcrior border is free, turned toward the rectum, and covered to a varying extent by the fimbriae of the Fallopian tube. The superior extremity is rounded ; the inferior, more pointed, does not quite reach to the pelvic floor. (The relation which the ovary bears .to the Fallopian tube will be included with a description of the latter structure.) Fixation.—The ovaries are held in position by their attached anterior borders, and by the utero-ovarian, the tubo-ovarian, and the suspensory ligaments. The FIMBRI/E Fig. 891.—The uterus and appendages, front view. On the left side the tube is pulled down, the ovary lifted up. (Testut.) utero-ovarian ligament is a short rounded cord somewhat over an inch in length, which, running between the folds of the broad ligament, connects the inferior extremity of the ovary with the superior angle of the uterus, where it is attached a little below and behind the origin of the Fallopian tube. It is composed of fibrous ti.ssue and plain muscular fibres, the latter derived from the superficial