ELEMENTAB Y TISSUES. 42 nerves. When destroyed or in any way lost the cells are regenerated, as a rule, with rapidity. Epithelium performs many important services, among which may be men- tioned the protection which it furnishes to underlying tissues, the prevention of the escape of lymph from the parts which it covers, the absorption of nourishing materials into the blood, the maintenance of motion in the fluid which comes in contact with it, the smoothness which it imparts to surfaces, the formation of secretions, and assistance in the appreciation of certain sensory imjiressions. The materials composing epitliclial cells and tlie substance uniting them are sufficiently yielding to permit considerable alterations in their form without injury. Thus, when the structures upon which an epithelium rests enlarge or contract, it readily adapts itself to the changed conditions, without cracking in the oue case or wrinkling in the other. No classification of epithelial cells is very satisfactory, but the study of them is made somewhat easier by the knowledge that (excepting a few—the s]>heroidal— whose form presents but a slight departure from that of the typical cell) they may be placed in two classes, in one of which they are long and slender, and are arranged with their chief axis perpendicidar to the surface, and in the other of which they are broad and thin, with the long axis parallel with the surface upon which they rest. In the first class—the cells standing on end—are columnar (cylindrical), pris- moidal, conoidal (pyramidal), pyriform (pear- shaped), club-shaped, fusiform (spindle-shaped) cells. In the second class—the cells lying on side—are flattened (scaly or squamous) cells (Fig. 18). It will be observed that this classification is based upon form only, and that the differ- ence between on.e and another is accounted for by the direction in which pressure is applied. For example, suppose that a large number of soft, globular cells are placed upon an even plane, side by side, eacli just touching every Fig. 18—Flattened epithelial cells. (Daiton.) immediate neighbor, and imagine that an equal number of exactly similar cells are introduced Of course something must give way, or the prf)posed problem has no solution ; and what actually yields is the shape of each of the plastic cells. The cell cannot go downward, for the surface upon which it rests prevents tliis ; sidewise j^ressure of every adjacent cell deprives it of a con- siderable part of its former standing-room ; and, as its bulk remains unaltered, it is obliged to move a part of its mass upward, and its free surface, I'educcd by the lateral squeezing, is thrust two or three times as far from its attached surfiice as it was originally. The cell has become elongated, changed from a sphere to a cylinder or column, by pressure applied in a number of lateral and parallel direc- tions. If the surface upon Avhich the cells originally rested was convex in every direction, instead of flat, the cells would be changed from spheres to cones or pyramids by pressure made laterally on each at many points, and jirogressively increasing in force from the part nearest the surface downward. The difference in results depends upon tlie variation of the supporting surface. If the cells are pressed between two ]>arallel planes, one of which is the surface upon which they rest, the result is a flattened cell. It is easy to imagine how the other and less common shapes have been evolved. Flattened epithelium is often called tessellated, or pavement, because, when one looks directly down upon it, it presents the appearance of a flagging of stones. The names, however, are objectionable, not only because they are super- fluous, but more because they are equally applicable to the c(jlumnar variety when it is viewed in the same way ; for the flat, free ends of the latter look just additionally upon the same area.