ELEMENTARY TISSUES. 44 Goblet or chalice cells (Fig. 25) are a mo(Hfication of the cylindrical or conoidal, and their names are explanatory of their form. The nncleus retreats to the attached end of the cell, and the rest of the cell becomes filled with a granular material. The granules swell, causing the part in which they are contained to bulge out at the sides and crowd oyer into the territory of the adjacent cells ; and, finally, the internal pressure becomes so great that the cell bursts at its free end, its contents escaping upon the surface as a glairy substance called mucus. A goblet-cell, therefore, is a one- celled gland, doing real secreting work. In the true mucous glands the secreting cells are of this vari- ety. A goblet-cell may soon return Fig. 23.—Neuro-epithelial cells. Three cells project be- yond the general surface, and are supported by iuterme- diate cells. (Frey.) Fig. 24. — Neuro - epithelial cells. Two send long processes beyond the general surface. (Schultze.) Fig. 2.5.—Goblet-cell, surrounded by cyl- indrical cells. (F. II. G.) to the condition of an ordinary cylindrical or conoidal cell or remain a chalice for a long time. Transitional epithelium (Fig. 26) partakes of the features of a number of other groups. Its typical illustration occurs in the bladder, where the superficial layer is composed of thick, flattened cells, Avith dimples on their under surface into which the large ends of pear-shaped cells of the next layer are received, the spaces between the last being filled with the inverted cones of the lowest set. Fig. 26.— Transitional epithelium (F. H. G.) J > if- No two layers are alike, and a lower is in a state of transi- tion to a higher plane. Glandular epithelium (Fig. 27) is composed of cells of dif- fering shapes—cuboidal, cyl- indrical, conoidal, polyhedral, and spheroidal, the last being rarely found except in the re- motest recesses of tubular and racemose glands. The various forms of these cells are accounted for by the dif- ferent shapes of the cavities to which each series is compelled to adapt itself. The function of glandular cells is secretion. When an epitlielium consists of only one stratum of cells it is called simple or single-Ioyered; when it has two or more layers it is known as stratified. If a ciliated epithelium is stratified, only the cells of the upper layer are furnished with cilia. Fiii. 27.—Glandular epithelium as seen in a salivary gland. At lower riRht-haud corner is a duct lined with conoidal epithelial cells. (KoUiker.) the!