THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. 462 vein, which starts near tlie tip of the tongue, and passes backward beneath tlie mucous membrane of its under surface. As it continues backward it is separated from the lingual artery by the hyoglossus muscle, on the outer surface of which it lies below the hypoglossal nerve. It is joined by the lingual vense comites and by branches corresponding to the branches of the artery, and empties into the Fig. 4'Ji.—Arteries and veins of the tongue, viewed from the right side. (Testut.) internal jugular or the facial vein. Its tributaries not infrequently open separately into the internal jugular or into the facial vein. The common facial vein has been described above. The superior thyroid vein corresponds to the artery of the same name, and, after crossiug the upper end of the common carotid artery, it empties into the internal jugular or the common facial vein. The three thyroid veins on each side communicate freely with each otiier and with those of the opposite side. The middle thyroid vein emerges from the lower part of the lateral lobe of the thyroid l)ody, and, after crossing the common carotid artery, empties into the internal jugular vein, a little below the level of the cricoid cartilage. The Inferior Thyroid Veins descend from the lower part of the thyroid body, one on either side of the trachea. Frequent anastomoses form a kind of plexus, from which the left vein descends to empty into the left brachio-cejihalic vein, the right vein into the angle of union of the two brachio-cephalic veins, or into the lower end of the riglit brachio-cephalic vein, or it may join the left vein. They lie under cover of the sterno-hyoid muscles, and receive inferior laryngeal, tracheal, and oesophageal veins. They are guarded by valves at tlieir termination. They may seriously embarrass the sui'geon in jierforming low tracheotomy. The Vertebral Vein corresponds to the cervical portion only of the vertebral artery. Commencing in the suboccipital triangle in a plexus of small veins, it accompanies the vertebral artery in a plexiform manner through the foramina of the transverse processes of the upper six cervical vertebrte. Thence as a single vessel it descends across the subclavian artery to open into the upper end of the brachio-cephalic vein, dorsally. Trihutaries.—At its upper end it communicates with the occipital, deep cervical, and intraspinal veins. It receives branches from the dorsal spinal veins of the neck, the lateral spinal veins, and the plexus on the ventral surface of the bodies of the cervical vertebrte. Near its lower end it is joined by the deep cervical and anterior vertebral veins, and usually by the first intercostal vein, which accompanies the superior intercostal artery. The anterior vertebral vein descends from in front of the cervical vertebrae,