THE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. 542 proper to itself, but it participates in the formation of tlie roof of the fourth ven- tricle. Its main portion consists of three parts, a median and two lateral, all continnous and of substantially the same structure. The lateral parts are called hemispheres—a piece of nomenclature imitative of that of the great cerebral masses, rather than appropriate on account of its inherent descriptiveness. Tliese bodies attain a size so greatly in excess of that reached by the median portion, which is between them, that the latter is com- paratively insignificant, and its obscuration by them on the lower aspect is almost complete in the normal position of the parts. The median portion is called the vermis ("worm") or vermiform process, on account of the undulatory appearance of its irregular surface. On the upper aspect of the cerebellum the vermis and hemispheres are separated only by slight grooves; but on the under surface the vermis is sunk almost out of sight in a deep dorso-vcntral depression, the m//eci(/(t (" little vale"), which ends behind in a deep notch, in front in a shallow one. The cerebellum is connected with other parts of the encephalon by six bands, three on each side. To the oblongata run the inferior peduiieles, previously described as the restes. To the quadrigeminal bodies of the isthmus stretch the superior pedimcles, which have been seen to bound the pontile portion of the fourth ventricle laterally. To the pons go the middle peduncles, which spread out into its ventral protuberance. The upper surface of the cerebellum is nearly flat, the lower surface decidedly convex. Both surfaces are marked with fissures which run in a generally trans- verse direction, and are so close together as to divide the cerebellar sul)stance into layers or leaves, whence it is said to l)e laminated or foliated. These folia are very diiferent in gross appearance from the gyri of the cerebrum, presenting a sharp border instead of a rounded surface ; but they are homologous with these gyri in that they have a basis of white substance and upon this a covering (cor- tex) of gray. The clearest conception of the depth and arrangement of the folia is o!)tained by making sections, especially in a vertical direction, through the cere- bellum at different planes (Fig. 599). It is then seen that the white substance SUPERIOR LOBES Fig. 599.—Sagittal section of left cerebellar hemisphere. (Testut.) f(n*ms a large core or trunk, the trapezium, from which a number of primary branches are given off. Each of these in its turn divides, and, as the ultimate rami, as well as the original, are.clothed in gray, an appearance is presented sug- gestive of a cedar tree, Avhence the name arbor vitce {" tree of life"), which is given to it. The upper and lower surfaces are se])arated by a rather prominent border, partly upon and partly near which runs the longest and deepest of the fissures, the f/reat horizonted or lonf/itudinal fissure. The upper surface is marked in the middle line by the superior vermis, whose central and most pronounced prominence is the monticulus (" little mountain "). On each side of the vermis is a shallow groove, beyond which is a hemisphere.