553 THE SPINAL CORD. the cervical region, and another in the thoracico-hniibar region. The cervical enlargement extends from the third cervical vertebra to the second thoracic, and corresponds to the origin of the nerves of the upper limbs. The lumbar enlarge- ment, which marks the origin of the nerves of the lower limbs, begins at the ninth thoracic vertebra, attains its greatest size at the twelfth, and thence rapidly dwindles in a terminal cone, from the apex of which extends a delicate prolonga- tion, the filum terrninale (" the end thread "), Avhose upper part presents the essen- tial histologic elements of the cord (Fig. 614). It is customary, however, to regard the tip of the cone as the distal end of the spinal cord, as the filum is plainly only a rudimentary structure. The cord presents two curves, which correspond to those of the parts of the column which it occupies : a cervical curve, with its convexity forward, and a thoracic curve, with its concavity forward. The cord proper extends from the plane of the occipito-atloid joint to that of the body of the second lumbar verte- bra, and the iilum continues from this point to the base of the coccyx. The length of the cord proper is about eighteen inches, its transverse diameter one half- inch or less, and its iveight nearly an ounce. Fissures and Columns.—External inspection of the cord shows upon its surface a number of creases, running from end to end. In the middle line in front is a deep cleft—the ventro-median Jissure; in the middle line behind a shallow one—the dorso-median Jissure; at each side of the latter, nearly a quarter of the way around to the front is a shallow dorso-lateral fissure ; and between the dorso-lateral and the dorso-median, and much nearer the latter, is the dorso-intermedicde fissure. The dorso-lateral fissures are occupied by the dorsal roots of the spinal nerves. The ventrcd roots of the spinal nerves come off on each side from a vertical strip of the surface which is about as far from the ventro-median fissure as the dorsal roots are from the dorso-median fissure. Thus, each lateral half of the cord is divided into three parts : one between the ventro-median fissure and the ventral roots—the ventral (anterior) column ; a second between the ventral roots and the dorsal roots—the laiercd column ; and a third between the dorsal roots (or dorso-lateral fissure) and the dorso-median fissure—the dorscd (posterior) column, which is subdivided by the dorso-intermediate fissure into the dorso-lcdercd column, and the dorso-mesial column. All of these structures are composed of white nervous tissue. Tlie Gray Matter of the Cord (Fig. 616).—A transverse section of the cord shows a mass of gray nervous tissue, enclosed by the white. The gray of each side is somewhat crescentic in form, or the whole mass may perhaps be more aptly likened to two commas, one of which is reversed, the two placed back to back, and their convexities connected by a narrow band. The head of each comma is ventral, its tail dorsal. The two portions of each are called horns or cornua.^ The ventrcd horn points forward and outward, but does not come nearly to the margin. The free end of it is the head, the attached part is the base. From the head project numerous spine-like processes; from the concave side of the base juts out a triangular mass—the lateral horn, which is most pronounced in the upper thoracic region. The dorsal horn is directed backward and outward, and quite or nearly reaches the periphery of the cord at the dorso-lateral fissure. It is divided into three parts : the base, ^ hich is continuous with that of the ven- tral horn ; the head, which ends behind in a point, called the apex ; and the neck, which connects the base and head. Near the hind part of the head is a crescentic portion, the substantia gelatinosa (" gelatinous substance "). From the concavity of the comma, at the base of the dorsal horn, projects a network of gray tissue, enclosing in its meshes little masses of white. This is the jyrocessus reticularis ' The term horn or comu employed generally to designate a portion of the gray matter of the cord is strictly adapted only for use in the description of transverse sections ; for it is manifest that the gray of the cord, equally with the white, is arranged in columnar masses. But, as practically we do not see the gray except in cross-sections, the word liorn or comu is sufficiently accurate and not misleading.