657 THE SKIN. their free margins pointing outward. These form the liair cnfic/r. Next comes the cortical Huhatance, some Iiairs liaving in addition a medulla or pitli. The cortical substance consists of closely set elongated cells, which still retain a trace of a nucleus. The cells and intercellular spaces contain pigment, varying in amount with the color of the hair. Between the cells are air-spaces, the air being most al)undant in white hair. In the thick, short hairs of the pubes, the hair of the beard, and in white hair in the scalp there is a central pith. It is composed of irregular, j)olyhedral cells, containing many air-spaces. The pith does not extend to the jioiiit of the hair, is not present in children under five years of age, and is not found in the colored haii's of the scalp, or in tine hairs. Toward the bulb the cells wliich form the hair become polyhedral, and resemble the cells of the Malpighian layer. The bulb expands to enclose a vas- cular papilla of cutis vera. The hair follicle (Fig. 705) has dermic and epidermic constituents. The dermic coat consists of three layers. The outer layer is formed of longitudinally HAIR Fig. 704.—Vertical section of the skin, showing a hair and its follicle. (Testut.) arranged white fibres with connective-tissue corjniscles, and numerous vessels and nerves. It is continuous with the reticular layer of the corium. Within this is a layer of circular fibres, which appears to represent the pa]>illarv layer of the corium, and within these is a structureless lamina (the hyaline layer), repre- senting the basement membrane of f etal skin. These two inner layers extend out from the bottom of the follicle to the openings of the sebaceous glands. The epidermie coat is divisible into two parts, the outer root-sheath, which is simply the Malpighian stratum of the epidermis, and the inner root-sheath, which may be taken as representing the stratum lucidum, and presents three characteristic layers. On the outside, and next to the outer root-sheath is Hevle's layer, a single layer of non-nucleated, flattened cells ; then comes Huxley's layer, consisting of polyhedral cells, two or three deep ; and lastly the cuticle of the root-sheath, a 42