649 THE SYMPATHETIC NERVES. the ganrflinyi of Wrisherr/. It sends branches to the riglit coronary plexus and left anterior pulmonary plexus, the latter accomjianying the left branch of the pulmonary artery. All the other cardiac nerves above mentioned join in forming the deep cardiaG plexus which lies in the bifurcation of the trachea behind the aortic arch. From it branches are distributed to both auricles, both coronary plexuses, and both pul- monary plexuses. Of the coronary plexuses the right is the smaller. It is derived from Ijoth cardiac plexuses, its branches surrounding the root of the aorta. It descends on the right coronary artery, sending filaments to ramify between the pericardium and muscular wall of the heart, the ultimate fibres entering the muscle substance. The left coronary jjlexus is derived from the deep cardiac plexus. It passes between the pulmonary artery and left auricular appendix, and accompanies the left coronary artery. The Solar or Epigastrie Plexus.—Lying in front of the crura of the diaphragm and at the sides of the aorta, just after that vessel appears in the abdomen, are two large ganglionic masses united to each other by a coarse network of nerve fibres, which surrounds the origins of the cceliac axis and superior mesenteric arte- ries. This is the solar or epigastrie plexus. It lies behind the stomach, above the pancreas, and between the suprarenal bodies. Each ganglionic mass presents one large irregular body at its upper part, called the semilunar ganglion, which receives the great splanchnic nerve at its upper angle. Continuous with the semilunar ganglion, but marked off from it by a con- striction, is a smaller body, the aortieo-renal ganglion, which receives the small splanchnic, and gives off the greater part of the renal plexus ; while a still smaller body, lying to the right of the superior mesenteric artery, forms the supjerior mesenteric ganglion. Through this plexus the abdominal viscera above the pelvis are connected with the lower six thoracic ganglia and thoracic spinal nerves, and it is significant that these last supply the abdominal wall.