656 THE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SENSES. Nails. Each nail (Figs. 701-703) consists of a boiJji, which is translucent, showing readily the red glow of the underlying capillary vessels, except at its proximal extremity, where it is more opaque over a crescentic area called the lumda. The opacity and consequent whitish color is due to the greater thickness of the Malpigliian layer in this situation. The free edge of the nail overhangs the tip of the digit; its root is embedded proxinuxUy in a deep groove in the skin, from which an epidermal nutnf/e ])roiects over the lunula. Its lateral bordert< are sunk in furrows, which have an overhanging nail^wall of upfolded skin. From free edge to lunula the nail is closely ad- herent to an epidermal nail-bed, but from the lunula to the proximal margin of the root this bed is called the ^ ^ matrix, because it is here only that the growth of nail takes place. The vail-mbstance consists of Hattened, (TesTit!) ~ " closely-packed cells, wliich, on addition of an alkali, swell up and are seen to retain their nuclei; hence they repre- sent a condensed stratum lucidum. The nail-bed is essentially the Malpighian layer, its cells being more heaped up over the matrix, as already stated. The dermal constituent of the matrix is exceedingly vascular, and studded with large vascular papillte, while the derma under the nail-bed is raised into parallel longi- tudinal ridges. Hairs (Figs. 704, 705). With a few exceptional areas the whole skin is studded with hairs, varying in texture from the fine down {lanugo), scarcely projecting beyond the hair follicles, found on the eyelids and inner surface of the lal>ia majora, to the long hairs of the scalp, and short, crisp, thick hairs of the beard and pubes. The skin of the palms and soles, the dorsal surfaces of the third plialanges of the fingers and toes, the inner surface of the prepuce in the male, the labia minora in the female, the glans penis and glans clitoridis are devoid of hairs. In straight- haired races the hairs are thick, coarse, and cylindrical, in crisp-haired races thin and flattened, being oval on section. Dark hairs are coarser than those of lighter color. The jiortion of a hair projecting beyond the surface is its skcift or stem, that embedded in the skin is its root. The root ends in a bulbous enlargement, which is implanted on a dermal papilla. It is contained in an invaginated tube of skin, called a follicle, which furnishes it with an outer dermic and an inner epidermic coat. A hair has on its surface a single layer of thin, imbricated, scale-like cells,