667 THE NOSE. a corresponding area of tlie septum, and a lower, respiratory part, from the level of the lower border of the upper turbinate downward. The vestibule is lined with a continuation of the external skin, which presents a stratified, squamous epithelium, with hairs, sebaceous glands, and sweat-glands. The rest of the res])iratory area of the nose is covered with stratified, ciliated, columnar epi- thelium, with goblet cells, on a delicate basement membrane. The tmiica propria of the mucosa is com])osed of white fibrous tissue, rich in leucocytes, and tra- versed by a wide venous plexus, so that it resembles cavernous tissue. Compound, racemose glands open freely on the surface, and between them is much lymjihoid tissue, sometimes accumulated into nodules, and some plain muscular fibres. The various air-cavities (ethmoidal, frontal, etc.) are very sparingly supplied with glands, and in them the tunica propria is very thin. The mucosa of the olfactory area is yellowish brown in color. Its epithelium presents two kinds of cells, namely sustentacular and olfactory. The mdeidacular cells are columnar in form, possess no cilia, have their nuclei oval and arranged in a single I'ow near their embedded extremities, and end in branching processes, which fill the spaces between the expanded, nucleated ])ortions of the olfactory cells. The olfactory celln are thickly set between those just described. Each cell has an expanded portion in the middle enclosing a round nucleus, and from this two processes project. A thicker rod-like process extends forward toward the surface between the sustentacular cells, ending in the frog in a tuft of fine hairs, and described by some observers as possessing in man exceedingly short liair-like processes. From the proximal end of the nucleated expansion a fine varicose filament courses through the tunica proj)ria, and is continuous with a nerve-fibril, which joins the ])lexus formed by the olfactory nerve, and thus ends in arboriza- tions in the glomeruli of the olfactory bulb. The nuclei of the olfactory cells are situated at various dejiths, so that the zone of spherical nuclei is of considerable thickness. Beneath these and lying directly on a thin basement membrane some observers describe a layer of small polygonal cells. The suljmucous tissue is rich in veins, which here also give the mucous membrane almost a cavernous character ; and many tubular glands, either sim])le or only slightly branched, called the glands of Bowman, are embedded in the submucous tissue. Nerves.—The olfactory region is supplied by the olfactory nerve and by branches of the fifth ; the respiratory area by branches of the fifth only. The fifth nerve forms fine terminal ramifications among the epithelial cells. For the further descrijition of these nerves see the section on the peripheral nerves. The organ of Jacobson is an accessory olfactory organ, well develojied in the rabbit, guinea-pig, and some other mammals, but rudimentary in man. It lies, as already described, embedded in the cartilage of Jacobson on each side of the septal cartilage near the floor. In man sustentacular cells only are found, but no true olfactory cells. J^essels.—Branches of the internal maxillary, ophthalmic, and facial arteries supply the mucous membrane. The veins form so marked a plexus in the deeper parts of the mucosa as to cause it to resemble cavernous tissue. This is most pronounced over the lower turbinate, lower and hind part of the middle, and hind end of the upper turbinate, and the lower and hind part of the septum, and over the nasal duct. The lymphatics are very numerous. They join the lymph- spaces round the olfactory nerve, and thus communicate with the subdural and subarachnoid spacesi.