211 THE ARTICULATIONS OF THE THORAX. This ligament does not limit motion between the bones. The dura is adlicrent to its ventral surface, and the dorsal surface lies in the floor of the suboccipital triangle. A band of libres at the lateral margins of the ligament arches over the back of the vertebral oroove on each side to the superior articular process, com- pleting a foramen for the vertebral artery and the suboccipital nerve. The lidcral occipifo-at/antal Ugaments are strong librous bands between the transverse processes of the atlas and the jugular processes of the occipital on eacli side, which strengthen the capsular ligaments externally, and lie behind the rectus capitis lateralis muscles. Movements of fe.rion and extension are freely allowed. Extension is checked by the anterior occipito-atlantal, flexion by the occipito-axial and hind ])art of the capsular ligaments. Some lateral gliding is also allowed, Ijy which the outer edge of the condyle on the one side is depressed, and on the other is elevated in relation to its socket. Or the movement may be obliquely lateral, one condyle advancing slightly at the same time that it is depressed toward the median line, while the opposite condyle takes the reverse position. This is the position of greatest stability, and is assumed in the most easy and natural attitudes. Lateral movements are restrained by tlie check ligaments and the lateral parts of the cap- sules. No true rotation is allowed. The symmetrical and bilateral arrangement of these joints, combined with the median odontoid pivot, provides the strength and security which are necessary to life, and which are greater than are obtained in a ball-and-socket joint, with equal freedom of motion. A passageway for the cord is also provided, subject to less motion than in case the joint were of the ball-and-socket variety. The ligaments passing over and between the odontoid process and the occiput by being lax in the erect position allow of flexion, which tightens them. The head balances upon the fore part of the condyles when tlie orbits look a little upward. By this arrangement, chai-acteristic of the human figui'c, the head is held erect without undue muscular effort or a strong ligamentum nuclue. If the muscles relax, the head will nod either foi'ward or backward according as the centre of gravity is in front or behind the balance line. 3. The Articulations of the Thorax. (Figs. 230, 231.) A. The Costo-vertebral Articulations, or those between the ribs and the ver- tebrae, are subdivided into cosfo-central and costo-transverse artirnlations. (a) In the costo-eentral artieulation the head of the rib is united to the body of a single vertebra in the case of the first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth ribs, elsewhere to the bodies of two vertebrje and the intervening intervertebral disc. When the rib-head articulates with a single vertebra, there is a single synovial sac, otherwise two separate sacs, surrounded by a capsular ligament, which is composed of short fibres and is reinforced in front by the anterior costo-central or stellate ligament. This consists of pearly-white fibres, radiating from the front of the head of the rib upward to the body of the vertebra above, forward to the intervertebral disc, and downward to the body of its proper ver- tebra. In the case of the first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth ribs the stellate arrangement of fibres is not quite as distinct. The inter articular ligament is a thin, transverse band of short, strong fibres between the intervertebral discs and the ridge separating the two facets on the head of the rib, excepting the first, tenth, eleventh, and twefth, where it is wanting. It separates the two synovial sacs, and is loose enougli to allow of moderate rotation. (6) The cfjsto-transverse articulation is between the tubercle of each rib of the upper ten pairs and the front of the tip of the transverse process of the vertebra bearing the same number as the rib. Each joint has a thin, loose capsular lig- ament, enclosing a synovial sac, and strengthened on three sides by the costo- transverse ligaments. The middle costo-transrerse or intero-^seous ligament consists of short horizontal fibres between the back of the neck of the rib and the front