THE ARTICULATIONS. 210 The suspensory ligament is derived from the sheath of the notoehord, between the first vertebral centrum and the basi-oecipital, and is homologous with an inter- vertebral disc. The transverse and check ligaments are each derived from the fonjiif/al /kjamcnts (ligamentum conjugale costarum). These, in the embryo, con- nect tlie heads of each pair of ril)s or costal processes around the back of the inter- vertebral discs, and persist as the interarticular ligaments of the heads of the ribs. Fig. 229.—Articulations of the occipital bone with the upper cervical vertebrse. The arches have been removed, and the spinal canal is thus exposed. (Testut.) Ilovemenfs.—In the atlanto-axial articulation rotation of the head together with the atlas takes place around the odontoid process as a pivot for about 30° to either side in a nearly horizontal plane. It is limited by the check and atlanto-axoidean ligaments. As both facets in each lateral atlanto-axoidean articulation are con- vex, with the convexities in contact when the head looks forward, rotation causes the convexities of the atlantal foccts to descend from those of the axis. This decreases the space and relaxes the ligaments between the bones, thus allowing further rotation, with security in all positions. Slight tlexion and extension and some lateral flexion are also allowed between the atlas and the axis. C. The Articulations of the Atlas with the Occipital Bone.—This consists of a symmetrical pair of condylar jdints between the occipital condyles and the upper facets of the lateral masses of the atlas. Each joint is provided Avith a rather lax capsular ligament. In front and behind these the ventral and dorsal arches of the atlas are connected with the margins of the foramen magnum by the anterior and jjoderior oeeij>ito-atI<infal lic/dments res2:)ectively. The anterior occipifo-atlantal Uf/avieiit is thin and membranous, strengthened in front in the median line by a round accessory ligament, which is the ujiper end of the anterior common ligament. The posterior oecipito-atlantal ligament represents the liga- mentum sui)flavum, but is without elastic fibres, and is also thin and membranous.