71 MUCOUS MEMBRANES. In the movements of the tendon fric lubricating agency of the synovia. 3. Bursal Synovial Membranes. Other names for these structures are synovial bursa} {'^ aywox'vdl purses"), bursa} mueosce {" mucous purses "), and vesicular synovial membranes. A syno- vial bursa is a little bag of fibrous tis- sue, lined with synovial membrane, and placed between parts which move upon each other, as two muscles, two tendons, a muscle or tendon and a bone, the skin and a bone. The sac is connected with surrounding parts by areolar tissue, and the opposite sides of its internal surface are in contact, and kept moist with sy- novia. Some of these membranes are developed from spaces of areolar tissue by closure of connection with surround- ing spaces, and condensation of the con- tiguous fasciculi of the tissue. MUCOUS MEMBRANES. The serous and synovial membranes line closed sacs ; the mucous membranes {inembrance mueosce) line passages and cavities which have a direct communi- cation with the outer surface of the body. Indeed, from the physiological point of view, the parts which are covered by them are external, for they are regarded as inversions of the integument—por- tions of the outer investment tucked in and modified, but never lacking conti- niiity with it. There are two separate sets of mucous membranes—the gastro-pulmonary and the genito-urinary. Each of these con- sists of a continuous membrane, which lines two series of organs, and varies in many respects according to the organ of which it forms a part. The e/astro-pul- monary mucous membrane (Fig. 76) fur- nishes a free surface for the alimentary and respiratory systems, and gets its name from a principal organ of each— the stomach and the lungs. The ali- mentary part of it begins at the lips and passes through the mouth, the middle and lowest parts of the pharynx, the gullet, stomach, small and large intes- tines, and anal canal, and then comes to the skin-surface. In its course it sends offsets to the ducts of the salivary is reduced to its lowest terms by the Fig. 76.—Diagram of the gastro-pulmonary mucous membrane, showing the continuity of all 'its parts. (F. H. G.)