THE BOXES. 146 The five of the jirst roic are the longest, aud are slightly curved loiigitudiuallv. The thicker upper end, or base, has a transversely elongated, concave articidar iacet (glenoid cavift/), and the distal end, flattened from before backward, has a facet prolonged onto the palmar aspect, and divided into two condyles by a groove. The four of the second row, that of the thumb being wanting, are smaller, bur similar, except that the proximal articular facet has a slight median ridge aud two lateral depressions to fit the condyles of the first row. The five terminal or ungual [from unguis, "a. nail") phcdanges have proximal extremities like those of the second row, with the addition of a palmar depression for the long flexor tendons. The shaft tapers to the flattened, expanded, horseshoe- shaped distal extremity, of which the smooth dorsal surface supports the nail, and the rough palmar surface the pulp of the finger. Taken together, the phalanges of the middle finger are the longest, and next those of the ring, index, little finger, aud thumb, in the order named. THE BONES OF THE LOWER LIMB. The bony pelvis includes, besides the sacrum and coccyx, already described, the two hip-bones or the pelvic girdle. The skeleton of the lower limb comprises, besides the hip-bones, the femur in the thigh, the tibia and fibula in the leg, aud the tarsal, metatarsal, and phalangeal bones in the foot. A large sesamoid bone, the patella, is found at the knee. THE HIP-BONE. The hip-bone, or os innominafum ("unnamed bone") (Figs. 166, 167), is irregular in form and shaped somewhat like the blade of a screw-propeller. It is narrowed in the middle, where the acetabulum, or socket for the femur, is seen ex- ternallv,and expanded above and below. The large upper portion forms the/a/« pelvis basin" I, a part of the abdominal wall : the lower portion, perforated by the large thyroid (''shield-like") or obturator stopper")/o/'am<'Ji, forms the lateral aud front parts of the true pelvis, curving inward to meet its fellow. The hip-bone transmits the weight of the body to the femur. The three parts, ilium, ischium, and o-* separate in early life, ankylosed in the adult at the acetabulum, where they meet, are conveniently recognized as distinct in the description of the bone. In following the description hold the back of the coty- loid notch downward, in the natural position of the bone. TIis Ilium. The ilium (" twisted") is the large, upper expanded portion, whose lowtr limit forms the upper two-fifths of the acetabulum, and whose upper border, the crest, presents three lips for attachment of the flat muscles of the abdomen. Tho crest is sinuous, /-shaped, irregularly thickened, and subcutaneous. To the outer lip are attached the tensor vagina? femoris in front, the obliquu^ exteruus in the ventral half, the latissimus in the dorsal half, and the gluteal portion of the fascia lata in the entire length : to the middle ridge, the obliquur iuternus in the ventral two-thirds : to the inner lip, the transversalis in the ven- tral three-fourths, the quadratus lumborum and erector spin* behind, and tJv iliac fascia in the entire length. The crest ends in front in the prominent anterior superior spine, to M hich thi inoruinal (Poupart's) ligament, the tensor vaginje femoris, and the sartorius ar attached. The latter extends on to the notch below, which transmits the exterDa <?utaneons nerve, and separates the superior from the anterior in ferior s^iine. FroD the latter, situated above the acetabulum, the straight tendon of the rectus femori and the ilio-tibial band take origin. Below this spine and between it and the ilio'