737 THE LARGE INTESTINE. body, and on its hind surface is marked off from the liead by a vertical depression, sometimes called the iutJc, in wliich are lodged the portal vein and the superior mesenteric vessels. All of the pancreas except the head is quite movable. The color of the gland is pinkish, its weight between two and three ounces, its Fig. 796.—The pancreas, dorsal view. The head is seen in the erabraoe of the duodenum. The portal vein and superior mesenteric artery lie behind the neck, (Drawn from the His cast. F. H. G.) length about six inches, its breadth two inches, and its th'ichness ahout half an inch. In infancy and early youth it grows rapidly, and in old age it undergoes atrophy. The Structure of the Pancreas (Fig. 797).—Structurally it is a coni])()und acinous gland, consisting of minute tubes, coiled up in little masses, called lobules. These are bunched together into lobes, and all the parts are held in more or less close relation to one another by areolar tissue, which spreads out over the surfaces every- where, and is also continuous with that of the immediate neighborhood. The secretory cells are commonly short cones, whose apices point toward the lumen of the tube. Besides these are certain cells of spindle-shaiie, lying against the free ends of the first mentioned, and protruding into the bore —called the centro-acinous cells. The excretory ducts at their beginning are fine tubes, consisting of a single layer of flattened e]iithelium, and lying in the delicate connective tissue. The union of these forms larger ducts, and these in turn join to make those of greater size, until a single great channel, the pancreatic duct, results. As the tubes increase in size, a outside of the epithelial, and this is thickest in the largest ducts. The pancreatic duct (Fig. 798) runs from the tail to the head, in the very centre of the gland, and then bends downward, leaves the pancreas, enters the wall of the duodenum in the concavity of its second portion, unites with the com- mon bile-duct, and the compound duct perforates tlie mucous membrane. An accessory duct is usually found, springing from the main duct at about the neck of the gland, and emptying iuto the duodenum an inch above the other. Development.—Tlie pancreas begins in the embryo as a sprout from the intes- tine, and this initial tube and its branches become the ducts of the mature organ, the true gland tissue budding from these little stalks as leaves form upon a twig. The vessels follow the interlolMilar connective tissue, and, as in all glands, are. supplied as capillaries to the secreting organism. 47 section of pancreatic acini. (Testnt.) fibrous coat is added