THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 746 of the gastro-hepatic omentum into the liver at the transverse fissure, their branehes are embraced by the capsule of Glisson, and they are distributed as has been already stated, the one contril)uting material'upon which the hepatic cells are to act, the otlier furnishing nourishing blood to the various structures of tlic liver. The hepatic veins receive tlie blood from the capillaries both of the portal vein and the liepatic artery, and discharge it into tlie ascending vena cava. The lympJuitics of the liver are both deep and superficial. The deep are divided into a set associated with the portal vessels, and a set accompanying the hepatic veins. The former emerge through the portal fissure, and pass through the hepatic nodes on their way to the coeliac ; the latter empty into the vena- caval nodes. The superficial lymph-vessels of the under surface are tributaries of the hepatic nodes, wliile those from the upper and hind surfaces drain into the anterior mediastinal and vena-caval. The nerves of the lirer are derived from the left jineumogastric, and from the solar plexus, the latter being distributed mainly to the he2:)atie artery, though to some extent to the portal vein. The Bile-ducts. The minute, intralobular l)ile-channels empty into delicate interlobular tubes, lined with very thin cells, which are continuous with tlie bile-secreting cells. These ducts unite and form larger tubes, lined with columnar epithelium, and constitute an interlobular plexus. Passing toward the portal fissure in the cap- sule of Glisson, they attain great size, and present a distinct mucous lining and a thick fibrous coat, in which are many circular and longitudinal ])undles of smooth muscular tissue, irregularly disposed. One trunk from the left and one from the right unite in the portal fissure and form the hepatic duct, which runs two inches downward and to the right, and there joins the cystic (gall-bladder) duct, thus forming the common bile duct (ductus communis choledochus), a tube about three inches long, whicli passes downward and backward to the second part of the duodenum, where it pierces the muscular wall of that bowel, runs in the submucous space for a half-inch or more, and opens in conjunction with the \>aw- creatic duct into the lumen of the duodenum, about four inches below the pylorus. The Gall-bladder. The gall-bladder {vesica feilea) (Fig. 805), the reservoir of the bile, is a pear-shaped bag, nearly four inclies long, an inch and a half wide, and with a capacity of rather more tlian an ounce. It lies in the wide fissure to whicli it gives its name, some- times projecting a little beyond the front margin of the liver, covered on its blunt (forward) end, its sides, and its under surface by serous mem- brane, which is stretched across from the right lobe to the quadrate. Its principal coat is com- ])osed of condensed ai'eolar tissue, in which are irregularly dis]iosed many bundles of unstriped muscle. The lining of niTicous membrane has a honey-comb a])]iearance. The tube of discliarge, the ci/stic duct, about an inch long, has a structure like the other bile ducts, but presents the peculiaritv of a number of oblique folds of its mucous membrane, which project into tlie bore and suggest the thread of a screw. All through the large bile ducts and in the gall-bladder there are mucus-secreting glands. COM MON\ BILE DUCT' Fig. 805.—The cystic rluct in section, with part of the gali-b)nflder, hepatic and common bile ducts. (Testut.)