THE ARTICULATIONS. 220 appears continuous as viewed from behind. This ligament represents a detached part of the pectoralis minor tendon. (2) The fjhno-huriieml hands, three in num- ber, extend between the ventral margin of the glenoid fossa and the neck of the humerus. They are seen projecting on the interior of the inner and fore part of the capsule when the joint is opened from behind. The superioi- gleno-Jmmeral band extends between the upper end of the ventral margin of the glenoid cavity and the ujji^r end of the small tuberosity of the humerus, forming a slight groove, directed backward, for the inner edge of the biceps tendon. It may occasionally be quite free from the capsule, and it lies above the opening by which the bursa beneath the scubscapularis tendon communicates with the synovial Fig. 240.—Shoulder-joint in coronal section, front view. The synovial sac is distended. (Testut.) cavity of the joint. The middle gleno-humeral band lies below this opening, along the lower border of the subscapularis, arises from the glenoid margin with the superior band, and is attached to the inner side of the small tuberosity of the humerus. The inferior gleno-hmneral hand is the strongest, and passes between the middle ])art of the ventral border of the glenoid rim and the lower part of the neck of the humerus. The superior gleno-humeral band represents the divorced tendon of the subclavius muscle as seen in birds, and corresponds to the ligamentum teres in the hip. The transverse ligamenf, by its fibres passing transversely between the tuber- osities, forms a canal of that part of the bici])ital groove which belongs to the ejjiphysis. The capsular ligament is attached to it superficially. The synovial membrane lines both free surfaces of the glenoid ligament, and is thence reflected over the inner surface of the caj)su]e to the humeral neck, where in front it passes down the bicipital canal for a distance, and there is reflected onto the biceps tendon, which it sheathes, as it passes through the joint, as far its attachment to the glenoid ligament. Between the superior and middle gleno-humeral bands there is usually an opening where the synovial membrane is continuous with that lining the bursa beneath the subsca])ularis tendon. It occasionally communicates with a bursa beneath the infraspinatus muscle. The articular cartilage is thicker near the centre of the head on the humerus and at the margins of the gl(>noid fossa, thus deepening it. Nerves from the su])rascapular, circumflex, and subscapular supjfly the joint. Movements.—Flexion and extension, abduction and adduction, circumduction and rotation are allowed to a degree determined by the extent of the humeral articular surface, the length of the capsule, and the resistance of the overlying parts. Flexion and extension, or the movements forward and slightly inward, and backward and slightly outward, take place on an axis corresponding to that of the head and neck of the liumerus, which is nearly perpendicular to tlie centre of the glenoid cavity. Flexion is much more free than extension, and between