THE MOUTH. 707 —twenty of the tennjoraiy set, and twenty-oiglit of the permanent. The fuur wisdom-teeth at this time are only embryonic ljuds (Fig. 756). The Gums. The gums {gingii-w) are dense, smooth mucous membrane, fused upon the periosteum of tlie alveoUir processes. They are very resistant to pressure, and have comparatively sliglit sensitiveness. The iloor of the mouth is formed mainly by the tongue, in small part by the sublingual structures. THE TONGUE. The tongue {lingua) (Fig. 757) is coni])osed mostly of voluntary muscles, which give it protean power of changing its shape. Its upper surface can be convexed or concaved ; its point can be thrust forward beyond the lips, drawn backward nearly or quite to the junction of the hard and soft palates, swept over the entire surface of the vestibule above and below; in short, the free portion of this organ can be made to assume such a multitude of forms as to defy description. This capacity accounts for its varied usefulness in the processes of prehension, chewing, swallowing, speech, touch, taste, and expression. The part of the tongue which presents a free sur- face upward and backward is called the dorsum. The anterior two-thirds of this is in the floor' of the mouth, the posterior third in the front wall of the pharynx. The pharyn- geal part of the dorsum forms the very sloping floor of the space marked olf on each side by the two pillars of the soft palate. It has a mam- inillated appearance, caused by the presence of numerous racemose glands and lymphoid masses. Just behind the apex of the series of circumvallate papilla? (desci'ibed on a previous ]mge) is a little aperture, the foramen cwcum (" blind hole"), the remnant of a fretal canal. At the lowest part of the pharyngeal surflice the mucosa is raised into three sagittal folds connecting the tongue with the larynx, the central one being the largest, and inserted into the upper surface of the epi- glottis. The oral portion of the dorsum, when entirely at rest, is convex in every UVULA PHARYNX Fig. VriT.—Itfirsiil surface of the tong:ue. (Testut.)