195 THE EXTERIOR OF THE SKULL. ward and slightly oiitw;ird, is lormcd by tlic orbital margin, is quadrilateral in shape with rounded angles. It is bounded above by the frontal, with the supraorbital notch or foramen at the junction of its inner and middle thirds ; internally by the nasal process of the maxilla ; below by the infraorbital margins of the maxilla and malar, and externally by the malar l)()ne. The concave roof of each orbit is formed by the orbital ])late of the frontal and the small wing of the sphenoid. The outer huiIIs of the orbits divei'ge so as to be almost at right angles with each other, and are formed by the orbital surfaces of the great wings of the sphenoid and the malar bones, the latter containing the temporal and malar canals. The_^oo/', sloping from within downward and outward, is formed by the maxilla, with the orbital process of the palate-bone behind and a small I part of the malar bone in front. The iimer u-al/.s of the two cavities are nearly I parallel, and are so continuous with the floors as to give a triangular shape to the I orbit in some specimens, which is especially marked at birth. Each is formed, ■ from before backward, by the nasal j)rocess of the maxilla, the lachrymal bone, ! the OS planum of the ethmoid, and the body of the sphenoid. The apex of the j orbit is at the inner extremity of the sphenoidal fissure, whose outer end separates j the back part of the roof and outer wall. The optic foramen lies at the back of ! the orbital roof, above and internal to the apex. In the angle between the roof \ and the inner wall lie the anterior and posterior ethmoidal foramina in the eth- I moidal section of the transverse xiittire. The latter extends horizontally from \ one to the opposite external anguhir jirocess of the frontal bone, along the margins of the orbital jdates of the frontal and the nasal notch between. In the angle I between the roof and the outer wall, in front, is the fossti for tJie /acJirymal gland. In the angle between the outer wall and the floor in its posterior two-tliirds is the ' sphcno-maxillary fissure, communicating behind with the spheno-maxillary fossa, and in front with the zygomatic fossa. From its inner border the infraorbital I groove passes forward in the floor of the orl)it to the infraorbital canal. In the angle between the floor and the inner wall, and just behind the orbital margin, ! the lachrymal groove passes down into the lacliripnal canal. A depression, some- times a tubercle, for the jiuUey of the superior oblicpie muscle is seen a little behind the supero-internal angle of the orbital margin. 'Jlie orbits communicate with the cranial cavity and the nasal, spheno-maxillary, and zygomatic fossje. The nasal fossae (Fig. 223) are two irregular, oblong cavities of a truncated pyramidal shape. They are narrow transversely, es])ecially above, but have a considerable diameter vertically and from before backward. They extend from the base of the skull to the upper surface of the hard ])alate, and open in front by the anterior nasal a])erturc, and behind into the jiliarynx by the posterior nares. They are situated one on each side of a median, vertical sepAuin nasi or internal wall, formed by the vertical plate of the ethmoid, the vomer, the rostrum , of the sphenoid, the nasal spine of the frontal, and the crests of the nasal, max- illary, and palate bones. The angular interval between the vomer and the ethmoid plate in front is filled by the se])tal cartilage, which with the bony sep- tum is usually deflected to one side, most conmionly to the left. The narrow roof of each fossa has a middle horizontal part formed by the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, with its many small apertures leading from the anterior ci'anial fossa, and an anterior and a jjosterior part sloping downward. The anterior slope is formed by the nasal bones and the nasal sjMue of the frontal. The posterior slope is formed by the body of the sjihenoid, the sphenoidal turbinate bones, the alffi of the vomer, and the sphenoidal ])rocesses of the palate-bones, and it contains the openings of the sphenoidal sinuses. The fioor of each fossa, wider than the roof, is smooth and concave transversely, with a slight backward slope. It is formed by the palate processes of the maxilla and palate-bone, and presents in front, close to I the septum, the incisor foramen (or canal), lending to the oral cavity. The exten- sive outer wall, sloped downward and outward, is formed by the nasal, maxillary, lachrymal, ethmoid, inferior turbinate, and palate bones, and the inner surface of the internal pterygoid plate. It presents three horizontal recesses or meatuses,