108 EMBRYOLOGY. development the choroid fissure closes completely, and the lips of the groove on the stalk also meet and close, the artery thus becoming enclosed by the stalk, and forming the arteria centralis retime of the adult. Later on, the mesenchyme in OF OPTIC CUP Fig. 127.—Horizontal section of the developing eye. (After KoUiker.) the interior of the optic cup becomes converted into the peculiar gelatinous I tissue of which the vitreous is composed, and its blood-supply becomes cut ofP, the only trace of the existence of the artery in front of the retina being the space originally occu])ied l)y the artery, persisting as a canal traversing the centre of the vitreous, and known as the hyaloid canal. AVhen the blood-supply of the vitreous is at its highest development it extends as far forward as the lens, which it surrounds with a vascular capsule, which later normally disappears completely. Of the structures accessory to the eye, the eyelids develo]) as folds of skin, which grow together over the eye, and remain fused together until shortly before birth. The lachrymal f/lands are formed as solid ingrowths (later becoming hol- low) from the conjTinctiva, just at the point where the u]iper-eyelid folds arise, , while the lacliri/rnal duct is developed as a thickening of the ectoderm, which forms the floor of the groove found at an early stage between the fronto-nasal and the maxillaiy processes. This thickening later becomes hollowed out, and the lips of the groove meet over the canal so formed, completely enclosing it, and, as the nasal cavity differentiates, the lower end of the duct comes to commu- nicate with it. The Auditory Organ.—The membranous labyrinth or inner ear is the first por- tion of the auditory f)rgan to develo]), ap])earing as a circular depression of the ectoderm over the first visceral cleft (Fig. 122). This auditory pit deepens, sinking down into the subjacent mesenchyme, its floor at the same time thicken- ing, and it eventually becomes constricted off from the ectoderm as a completely closed sac, a small process from one side of this representing the remains of its connection with the surface, and forming the ductus endolymphaticus. From the ventral wall of the sac a tubular outgrowth forms, which is the anlage of the cochlea, and in the angle between this and the sac proper is to be found the auditory ganglion, which had previously formed as a thickening of the ectoderm