THE DUCTLESS GLANDS. 794 the stomach, covering the distance from the eighth to the eleventh ribs, and lying with its long axis in line with that of the tenth rib. Its mca-vormoifs are nsually not less than five inches for length, three for breadth, and one inch lor thickness, and they may be considerably more than the above without departure from the normal, so great are the variations of its size within physiologic limits. Its u-ciglif also differs, conformably with its size, but will generally be five ounces or more. It is purple in color, of a soft rovsisfency, rather friable, and sags out of shape by its own weight. Surfaces and Borders.—It presents three distinct surfaces, separated by three bor- ders. The phrenic snrface, so called from its relation to the diaphragm, is convex, is as large as both of the others, and faces backward and to the left. The opposite (mesial) area is divided by a lengthwise ridge into a larger, anterior, concave gas- tric surface, in contact Avith the stomach, and a smaller, posterior, concave rcna/ surface, which receives the left kidney. The lower end is blunt, and is sometimes designated as the basal surface. The anterior bojxJer is between the phrenic and gastric surfaces, is sharp and notched; the posterior border separates the phrenic and renal surfaces, and is rounded ; the internal border is the ridge between the gastric and renal surfaces. Upon the gastric surface, close to the internal border is a notch, the hihm, marking the passage of the splenic vessels and nerves. Fig. 86i.—The spleen, showing the gastric and renal surfaces and the blood-vessels. (Testut.) Structure of the Spleen. The spleen has a complete serous coat (Fig. 865), which is reflected from it at the hilum, a layer passing to the stomach, as the front lamina of the gastro- splenie omentum, the hind lamina being contributed by the small sac of the peritoneum, and another layer passing to the kidney, as the hind lamina of the lieno-renal ligament, Avhose front lamina is furnished l)v the small sac of the peritoneum. From the upper end of the spleen a serous fold, the phreno-splenic ligament, connects it with the diajihragm. Beneath the serous coat is the fnnica propria, composed of iiiiuLilcd white and yellow fibrous tissues, the latter material being very abundant, and giving the organ great elasticity. Many cords and bands {trabecnke) project into the organ from the inner surface of this tunic, and some plain muscle-cells are mixed with the fibrous elements. At the hilum the tunica propria is reflected inward upon the vessels, and forms sheaths around them. At some distance from the surface, the arteries having become smaller by branching, the character of the sheath is changed from fibrous material to lymphoid, and at frequent intervals it is thickened so as to ]iresent globular or ovoid masses, the 3Ialpighian corpuscles, sometimes -^-i^ inch in diameter. By the entrance of the trabeculse in one direction and the ensheathed vessels in another, the contained room of the spleen is divided into numberless, minute, irregular, intercommunicating spaces ; and these last are subdivided by delicate fibrous strands, connecting trabeculje and vessel-sheaths, the sui'faces of these little cords being covered by branched fibrous-tissue cells. The resulting areolse