356 THE FASCIA. off and extend between the muscles. For the most part these are areolar ; but near the elbow, where groups of muscles arise from the condyles, the fibrous partitions are well marked. Between the first and second layers of the flexor muscles is stretched a thin layer of fascia, and a similar one is found between the superficial and deep groups of extensors. The fascia is much thicker behind than in front. At the lower end of the forearm the fascia terminates in the so-called annular ligaments, anterior and posterior. The name implies a ring-like structure ; but each extends only half-way round the limb, and, while the posterior is almost entirely within the limits of the forearm, the anterior is wholly within the boundaries of the hand. The Posterior Annular Ligament. The posterior annular ligament (Fig. 417) is chiefly composed of transverse bundles of fibres constituting a broad and strong band, which has bony attach- ments on the inner side to the styloid ])rocess of the ulna, the cuneiform and the pisiform, on the outer side to the lower end of the external boi'der of the radius, and between these extremities to the vertical ridges on the back of the radius. In this way are formed six osseo-fibrous passages, lined with synovial membrane, and occujjied by the tendons of the extensor muscles of the forearm which are inserted in the hand. THE FASCIiE OF THE HAND. In the hand are the anterior annular ligament, the palmar fascia, the inter- osseous fascife, the superficial transverse ligament, the dorsal fascia, and the sheaths of the tendons of the digital muscles. The Anterior Annular Ligament. The anterior anradar lie/ainent runs transversely across the front of the carpus from the scaphoid and trapezium on the outer side to the pisiform and unciform on the inner, thus converting the groove of the carpus into a tubular passage, through which run the flexors of the digits. It is continuous above with the forearm fascia, and below with the palmar fascia. The Palmar Fascia. The palmar fascia is divided into three parts, a middle and two lateral. Of lhese the middle is the most important, and often no other part is intended when the term " palmar fascia " is employed. The middle palmar fascia is thick and strong, and seems to be in great part an expansion of the palmaris longus, though there appears to be no lack of the fascia in cases where the muscle is absent. Other portions originate from the anterior annular ligament. The fascia spreads out in fan-shape as it descends, is firmly adherent to the skin, and is inserted into the bases of the four fingers by a division for each. From these divisions slips are sent to the skin, the anterior metacarpo-phalangeal ligament, the sides of the neighboring metacarpal bones, and the digital sheaths, which will jjresently be described. From the lateral borders of the fascia a partition passes backward to the interosseous fascia, and in this way is formed a canal in which are lodged the tendons which traverse the palm. The kderal portions of the palmar fascia are thin, cover the thenar and hypoth- enar groups of muscles, and, extending around the borders of the hand, become continuous with the dorsal fascia. The anterior interosseous fascia, is a thin layer which lies in front of the inter- osseous muscles, and is attached to the anterior ridges of the metacarpal bones.