180 THE BONES. The horizontal or cribriform phife is so named from a number of perforations arranged in tliree rows, of which those in the inner and outer rows are the larger and transmit the olfactory nerves to the inner and outer walls of the nasal fossfe. This plate forms the depressed olfactory groove of the anterior cranial fossa, which lodges the olfactory bulbs on either side of the crista galli. On each side of the fore part of the latter is a longitudinal slit for the nasal branch of the tifth nerve. The lateral masses or labi/rintlis contain a number of irregular, thin-walled ethmoidal cells between their two lateral walls. The thin, smooth, obking outer wall forms most of the inner wall of the orbit, and is called the as planum (" smooth bone") or orbital plate. The borders of this plate and of the lateral mass articulate in front with the lachrymal, below with the sujiei ior maxilla and palate-bones, behind with the sphenoid and sphenoidal turbinate bones, and above with the oi'bital plate of the frontal. The latter articulation com})letes the two horizontal, transverse grooves in each bone into the anterior and posterior eth- moidal c(tn(ds. These articulations (together with that of the nasal process of the maxilla with the fore part of the lateral mass internally) close the exposed half- cells of the ethmoid. The ethmoidal cells are lined by a continuation of the nasal mucous membrane, and are divided by a transverse septum into an anterior and a posterior set. The anterior set opens into a sinuous canal, the in fund ibid im, which leads from the frontal sinuses to the middle meatus of the nose ; the posterior cells open into the superior meatus. The cells are sometimes divided into posterior, middle, and anterior sets, the two latter opening together. The inner w(dl forms the u])per part of the outer wall of the nasal fossa, and is grooved for olfactory nerves and blood-vessels. It consists of the sujjerior and middle tiirbincde bones, which have attached upper borders, but are free and somewhat rolled outward infei'iorly. They are continuous in front, but separated in the posterior half by a channel, the superior mecdus of the nose, directed forward from the posterior l)order. The middle turbinate extends the length of the bone, and overhangs and bounds superiorly the m iddle meatus of the nose. From beneath the fore part of the os ])lanum a long, thin lamina of bone, the uncinate ("hook- like") process projects back'ward and downward in the outer wall of the middle meatus, where it articulates with the ethmoidal ]irocess of the inferior turbinate bone, and helps to close the inner wall of the antrum of the maxilla. Articulation occurs with thirteen bones—viz., the frontal and s])henoid of the craniinn, and the vomer, two nasal, two lachrymal, two maxilhe, two palate,j and two inferior turbinate bones of the face. Ossificedion proceeils in cartilage from three centres—one in tlie jjerpendiculari plate and f>ne in each lateral mass. True bony ethmoidal cells do not appearj until the third vear.