EMBR YOLOGY. 104 respectively the roof-plate and the floor-plate, while each of the lateral thicker por- tions becomes divided by a longitudinal groove into a dorsal and a ventral zone. Tile spinal cord develo]>s from the narrower posterior jjortion of the medullary canal, and is formed mainly by the growth of the cells of the ventral zones, the dorsal zones being represented only by the dorsal horns of the gray matter, while the parts contributed by the roof- and floor-plates are comparatively insig- nificant. At an early period a series of constrictions, separated from one another by definite intervals, appear throughout its entire length, and give it the appear- ance of being composed of a series of segments, which are termed neuromeres, and to each of which a pair of nerves corresponds. The existence of the constrictions is, however, transitory, and it is probable that their appearance is related to the occurrence of the mesodermal somites. Up to the end of the third month the cord is practically as long as the spinal canal, but later the canal grows in length more rapidly than the cord, so that the latter becomes relatively shorter, though actually it elongates. As a result of this unequal growth, the nerves which pass out between the lower vertebrse must lengthen, and so the bunch of nerves termed the cauda equina is formed. The motor nerves arise from cells situated in the ventral horn of the cord, and grow out toward the muscles for which they are destined ; the sensory nerves, however, arise from a series of thickenings situated just external to the lips of the medullary groove, which, on the closure of the groove, separate from the ectoderm and sink down into the mesoderm. From each cell of these thick- enings, which are the dorsal root-ganglia, two processes are sent off, one of which penetrates the substance of the cord, while the other extends peripherally. There is thus a fundamental distinction between the motor and the sensory nerve- fibres, the former always growing out from the central system, while the latter arise externally to the cord and brain, and grow inward toward them. In the anterior portion of the medullary canal, from which the brain develops, neuromeres are present as in the cord ; but, in addition, two more distinctly marked con- strictions appear and divide the brain into thi'ce primary vesicles. The roof-plate of the most posterior vesicle forms a thin roof to the cavity of the vesicle (Fig. 122), which broadens out to form the fourth ventricle, a transverse thickening, hoAvever, developing in the more anterior part of the roof, and later enlarging to form the cerebellum. In the posterior part of the vesicle the dorsal and ventral zones become well developed, forming the medulla oblongata, while ante- riorly fibres grow downward on each side from the cerebellimi toward the ventral mid-line, forming the j^oH.s;. In consequence, it is customary to regard the third vesicle as being secondarily divided into two vesicles, the posterior of which is termed the after- brain, or metencephedon (myelencephalon), while the anterior, which includes the cere- bellum and pons, is known as the hind- brain, or epencephalon. The cavity of the middle vesicle does not increase in size as rapidly as the others, but assumes the form of a canal, and is termed the iter or aqueduct. The roof-plate retains its primitive slight development, the dorsal zones, however, giving rise to four well-marked thickenings, the corpora Fig. 122.—Diagram of the brain at an early stage of development; /, ravity of primary pros- encephalon ; //, cavity of mesencephalon ; III, cavity of epencephalon; AU, auditory pit; CC, central canal of spinal cord; CE, cerebellum; CR, crura cerebri and quadrigemina; CT', cere- bral vesicle; FO, foramen of Monro; MO, me- dulla oblongata; OL, olfactory lobe; OPT. V., optic vesicle; SP, spinal cord; TH, thalamus opticus. (Martin.)