THE ARTICULATIONS. 214 the opposite in expiration, which is still more marked in the eleventh and twelfth ribs, where there are no costo-transverse articulations. In the upper six ribs, where the facets on the transvei'se j^rocesses are situated lower and are more con- cave as we ascend, there is rotation only. In the case of the eleventh and twelfth ribs there is little elevation, and the twelfth rib may even l)e drawn downward in iiis])iration by the quadratus lumboruni. The widening of the lower part of the thorax in inspiration increases the power of the diajihragm and counteracts the compression of the abdominal viscera. The costo-vertebral articulations with their ceaseless movement are remarkable for their freedom from disease. At the cliondro-sternal articulations, except the first, there is a slight hinge- motion on two axes, sagittal and obliquely vertical. Owing to these two move- ments the sternum is carried neither so far foi'ward nor upward as the anterior ends of the ribs and cartilages. Otherwise its motion would be detrimental to the heart, etc. behind. In the interchondral joints only a limited gliding is allowed, and the sternal articulations merely increase the elasticity and strength of the sternum. The hinge-motion, often wrongly asci'ibed to the ribs at the costo-central joints, can only occur with a sliding motion at the costo-transverse articu- lation. Although this may occur in the lower ribs, it cannot in the upper, owing to the rounded concavities in the transverse processes. Slight rotation on a single axis, as above indicated, accounts for all the motions ascribed to the ribs. 4. The Temporo-mandibular Articulation (Figs. 233-235). This articulation consists of a jiair of symmetrically placed ginglymo-arthro- dial joints. Their dissimilar articular surfaces, the ventral halves of the glenoid fossse, and the articular eminences of the squamous portions of the temporal bones Fig. 233.—Temporo-mandibular articulation in sagittal section. (Testut.) above and the condyles of the mandi!)le below, are adjusted together by the inter- posed interarticular cartilages. It is best seen when the jaw is divided in front of the ramus, and the latter is freed of its attachments. The bones are united hy a thin loose capmlar ligament attached outside of the articular surfaces on the two bones. The external lateral ligament consists of those accessory fibres, strengtliening the capsule, which pass from the lower border and tubercle of the zygoma downward and backward to the outer side and back of the neck of the condyle. This ligament on one side serves as the internal liga- ment of the opposite side. The inner part of the capsule, sometimes called the short internal lateral ligament, does not deserve the name. The interarticular cartilage is a thin, oval plate of fibro-cartilage, concavo- convex from before backward on its upper aspect to fit the temporal surface, and concave below to receive the condyle of the lower jaw. It is thickest behind, and thinnest at the centre, where it is sometimes perforated. By the close attach- ment of its circumference to the capsule the joint is divided into tioo manorial cavities, of which the upper is the larger and looser, and the lower extends lower