832 THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. of Douglas, together with the smooth muscular fibres contained between their layers, constitute the utero-sacral ligaments. Coils of small intestine frequently occupy the upper, but are rarely found in the lower, part of the recto-vaginal pouch. Ligaments.—The uterus is maintained in position by six important ligaments, arranged in three jxiirs. They are the broad or lateral, the round, and the utero- sacral. The broad or lateral ligaments, two in number, extend from the lateral borders of the uterus and u])per part of the vagina outward to the lateral walls of the pelvis, where they merge into tlie parietal peritoneum. They are composed of two apposed, serous laminte, which are continuous with the peritoneum covering the anterior and posterior surfaces of the uterus. Between these laminse are found the following structures : (a) the Fallopian tube ; (6) the ovary and its ligament; (r) the round ligament; (d) blood-vessels and lymphatics; (e) nerves; (/') remains of certain fcetal structures; {g) smooth muscular fibres; (h) areolar tissue, rich in fat and continuous Avith the subjjeritoneal fascia. Each ligament has two surfaces and four bordei's. At the superior border, which is free, the laminte are continuous and enfold the Fallopian tube. The inferior border is attaclied to the floor of the pelvis, areolar tissue intervening between it and the recto-vesical fascia. The ureter crosses obliquely beneath this border. The external border is divided into two portions, upper and lower. The latter is firndy attached to the pelvic fascia, and transmits the uterine artery and the round ligament. The uj^jier and shorter portion is free, and con- nects the fimbriated extremity of the Fallo])ian tube with the side of the pelvis. It is called the Ugamenhnn infimdibulo-pclvivvm, and carries between its layers the ovarian vessels. (This is usually described as a part of the superior border.) The internal border is in relation with the side of the uteriis and upper part of the vagina, and lying between its laminse are the utero-vaginal vessels. The anterior lamina, shorter than the posterior, is in relation with the bladder. It is partially raised from the posteri<n' l)y the round ligament, over Avhich it falls in a more or less definite fold. The posterior lamina, directed toward the rectum, gives off a special extension to enclose the ovary and its ligament. The fold or extension surrounding the Fallopian tul)e is sometimes called the meso-salpinx ; between its layers there are no muscular fibres. The smooth nuiscular fibres of the broad ligaments are derived from the superficial muscular layer of the uterus. Passing outward between the laminae, they become attached to the pelvic fascia and help to sustain the uterus. With the areolar tissue they also form a support for the blood-vessels. The round ligaments, about five inches in length, are also symmetrically ar- ranged, one on either side. Each takes origin from the corresponding superior angle of the uterus in front and a little below the attachment of the Fallopian tube. From this point it runs obliquely forward and outward to gain the internal abdominal ring. Entering this, it traverses the inguinal canal, and, after emerging from the external ring, it finally ends in the tissues of the labia raajora and mons Veneris. It is divided into four portions—pelvic, iliac, inguinal, and vulvar. The direction of the pelvic portion is at first a little downward, then upward as it emerges from the pelvis. The iliac portion, lying behind the ])eritonenm, crosses in front of the external iliac artery and vein. At the internal ring the ligament winds around the outer side of the deep ejiigastric artery, and the inguinal portion gives oft' fibres, which ai-e attached to the walls of the canal. The vulvar portion breaks up into numerous divergent, connective- tissue filaments, some of which are attached to the symphysis, while the remainder are lost in the tissues of the mons and labia majora. Structurally the round ligaments are composed of plain and striated muscular fibres, areolar tissue, blood-vessels, and nerves. The plain fibres are derived from the sujierficial muscular laver of the uterus; the striated, found only in the distal portion of the ligament, are acquired from the internal oblique and transversalis muscles and