THE LARYNX. 773 The aryteno-epiglottic muscle (Fig. 838) arises near the apex of the arytenoid, passes forward and upward, and is inserted into the side of the epiglottic cartilage. With its mate it draws the epiglottis backward and downward. Xervc, the inferior laryngeal. The arytenoid muscle (Fig. 838) (ary-ary- tenoid) connects the two arytenoid cartilages, being attached to the outer half of the con- cavity on the back of each. The ventral fibres are transverse, but the dorsal are arranged in two oblique bundles, which cross each other, and are continued into neighboring muscles— the thyro-arytenoid, aryteno-epiglottic, and lateral crico-arytenoid—as well as inserted each into the highest part of the opposite arytenoid cartilage. The muscle draws the arytenoid cartilages together, thus closing the part of the rima glottidis included between them. Nerves, the superior and inferior lar- yngeal. It will be observed that the arytenoid mus- cle has both the superior and inferior laryngeal nerves distributed to it; the crico-thyroid the superior only; and all of the other muscles the inferior only. Fig, R39.—Muscles of larynx, from be- hind. (Testut.) 841). is continued from the the epiglottic cartilage and inward to the superior thyro- ARVTENo- iPIGLOTTIDEUS The Lining of the Larynx (Figs. 840 Mucous membrane lines the larynx throughout. It mucosa of the tongue and pharynx, extends over from the aryteno-epiglottic ligaments downward and arytenoid ligaments, which it covers on their median and under surfaces, constituting with them the suj^erior, or false, vocal cords. The mem- brane is continuous below with that of the trachea, and lines the inner surface of each of the lateral crico-thyroid liga- ments and the inner and upper surfaces of the thyro-arytenoid ligaments, which with it com- pose the inferior, or true, vocal cords. Between the false and true vocal cords of each side is a narrow horizontal o^^ening of fusiform outline, the aper- ture of a cavity, called the ventricle of the larynx, which extends outward and then bends upward just on the mesial side of the upper jjart of the thyro-arytenoid muscle, and is lined with mucous membrane prolonged from that of the vocal cords. From the front of the ventricle extends upward a laryngeal pouch (sacmhis laryngis), which is narrow, long, and embedded in fat. CBICO THYROIDEUS VOCAL CORD Fig. 840.—Coronal section of lurvnx. (Testut.) rear view of front half;.