495 NODES OF THE THORAX. Fig. 524—The lymph-vessels of the penis. (Testut.) THE NODES OF THE THORAX and their Tributary Vessels. The nodes of the thoracic cavity (Fig. 525) are all deep, and derive their lymph from deep structures; that is, not at all from integumentary organs. They are disposed in the following groujis : the sternal, the intercostal, the anterior mediastinal, the posterior mediastinal, the superior mediastinal, the bronchial, and the vena-caval. They discliarge into the thoracic and right lymphatic ducts. The Sternal Nodes lie in tlie spaces between the costal cartilages close to the borders of the l)reast-bone. livmph flows to them from the deep portions of the mammary glands, from the anterior and lateral walls of the chest, from the U])per part of the front and sides of the abdominal walls, from the diaphragm, and from the anterior mediastinal nodes. The Intercostal Nodes are lodged in the hindmost part of the intercostal spaces. They drain the thoracic part of the spinal canal, the costal pleurte, and the poste- rior and lateral portions of the chest-walls. The Anterior Mediastinal Nodes are situated in front of the heart. Their lymph comes from the pericardium, the diaj^hragm, the liver, and the stei'nal nodes, and goes partly directly to the gi'eat terminal vessels of the system, and partly to superior mediastinal and sternal nodes. The Posterior Mediastinal Nodes, located around the aorta, have afferents from the heart, the pericardium, the Icnver part of the oesophagus, and the diaphragm, and communicate freely with the i)ronchial nodes. The Superior Mediastinal Nodes lie in front of the arch of the aorta. Their tributaries come from tlie thymus gland, the heart, the pericardium, the anterior mediastinal and the bronchial nodes. There is a direct connection between tiiis group and the deej) cervical nodes. The Bronchial Nodes (Fig. 518), gathered at the roots of the lungs, take lymph from the lungs, the pulmonary pleurae, the lower part of the trachea, the bronchi, the bronchioles, and the pericai'dium, and communicate with the superior and the posterior mediastinal nodes.