THE CERHBRO-SPISAL AXIS. •520 is a plate, which extend? laterally into the temporal lobe, and is named the tapdum ('•' mat"). On the upper free snriaee of the callosum some small bimdles of fibres run length-wise, and from this fact are called dri(€ longitudinak-s longitudinal stripes " ). They are in two sets on each side : a median, which lies close to the central depression; and a lateral, which is lodged in the callosal fissure, and is named taiia ieda (•• the concealed band " ), from its being covered up bv the cal- losal gyrus. These bundles diverge in front along the inner boundarv of the anterior perforated spaces, constituting the pednneks of the caRosum, and are lost in the beginning of the Sylvian fissures. Behind they are traced into the back part of the hippoeampal gyri. The lore-and-afr median meamrement of the callosum is about five inches; its depth behind is nearly an inch, in front a little less. liS. D/Q.—^Kesmjh iiOTrmg associanoa-SbreS uf lie henusplieTe. {Tesrni-) The callosum forms the roof of the lateral ventricles, the tapetum covering in the pctstericir and middle horns. As the fibres of the callosum radiate to the cortex of the hennsphere, they interlace with those of the great eoltmins ascending from the lower levels of the encephalon, and the two sets tt^ether constitute the chief bulk of the white sub- stance of the cerebrum. But there are also unnumbered bundles of fibres which connect near or remote gyri, as shown in Fig. d~0. They are called association jihres. The Fornix (,Tigs. -571, 568, 572). In the median section of the encephalon there is seen below the callosum and attached to the back part of its lower stirface a white body, \Thich curves forward and downward, then downward, and then downward and backward to the under surface of the brain, where it seems to double upon itself in a tight loop, and then to oonrse upward, backward, and a little outward to the thalamus, in which it is lost. This is a part of the fornix arch "), the remainder requiring another dissection for its exhibition. The callosum and all the structures above it having been removed, we ca.n look down uj>on the floor of the lateral ventricles, and thus obtain a view of the upper surfec-e of the fornix. It is now perceived to be bilaterally symmetrical. A little of the anterior, descending pan is seen in this view, and just behind this the two halves are joined together for a short distance. Trac-ed backward, however, the bands diverge, swing off to the sides, and dis- appear at the upper ends of the middle horns of the ventricles. Cutting away the roof of these comua, we find the bands following the curve of these cavities, and