535 THE REGION OF THE THIRD VENTRICLE. pillars are traced down from their beginning in the lateral ventricles, form a part of the front wall of the third ventricle, curve backward in their descent, and per- forate the floor of the third ventricle near its centre, thus interrupting what, without them, would be the complete continuity of the expanse of gray matter in this region. Each pillar then turns abruptly on itself, forming tlie bunch which is named corpus albicans, and extends upward and outward to the thalamus of its own side, in the substance of which it disappears. In composition these bodies are white nervous tissue enclosing gray. They are connected with the crura cerebri by white fibres embedded in the gray material of the floor. The cord which extends from the corpus albicans to the thalamus, and which is called the bundle of Vicq d'Azyr, though seemingly a prolongation of the fornix, is now thought to have no histological continuity with it. The anterior icall of the third ventricle consists in its lower part of the lamina cinerea, otherwise called lamina terminalis. The first of these names im])lies that it is composed of gray matter, and the second that it is the uttermost boundary of the third ventricle. It is continuous below with the tuber cinereum, which it joins behind the chiasma, or optic commissure, and it blends at its sides with the anterior perforated spaces. Together with the tuber cinereum and posterior per- forated space it makes up the basal gray comrnismre. Its upper border is connected in the middle with the rostrum of the callosura by the basal white commissure, and laterally is continuous with the gray substance of the gyri of the under sur- face of the frontal lobes. It passes in front of the anterior commissure, which consequently lies between it and the anterior pillars of the fornix. The upper part of the anterior wall is supplied by the anterior pillars of the fornix. The lower portion of each pillar is close to the thalamus of the same side, and is covered, as is the neighboring surface of the thalamus, by a thin layer of gray matter, which is a lateral extension of the basal gray commissure. On each side between the anterior pillar of the fornix and the thalamus is the porta (foramen of ^lonro), an opening with a well-defined, oval margin. This is the develoj)ed condition of the lumen of the little sprout, Avhich budded from the upper, front part of the wall of the first encephalic vesicle, and expanded at its distal end into the body of the lateral ventricle. It connects the third ventricle with the lateral. There is no passage directly from one lateral ventricle to the other, because the third ventricle intervenes between the two portte. It is, how- ever, interesting to observe that the most nearly direct course between the cavities of the lateral ventricles is across the fore and upper part of the third ventricle— the portion which is developed from the aula, the first encephalic vesicle, from which the lateral ventricles themselves are derived. Each jiorta permits the passage of a prolongation of the choroid j)lexus of its lateral ventricle. The remaining jjortion of the wall of the third ventricle is found in the small space between the long stalk of the epiphysis (pineal peduncle) and the opening of the aqueduct. It may be called the rear zcall. The upper lip of the aperture of the acpieduct is formed by the anterior border of the quadrigeminal mass, at this point thickened and folded back, thus making a ridge, which stretches from side to side, and constitutes the posterior commissure. The fibres of this body apparently connect the thalami, and prol)ably also extend into the white substance of the hemispheres. Above the posterior commissure is the epiphysis (" the growth upon "), other- wise called conarium and pinecd gland, these last names being given on account of the fancied resemblance of the body to a pine cone. Epiphysis is the best of the names, because this object is an upgrowth from the second encephalic vesicle. At first it is hollow ; but it soon loses its connection with the ventricular cavity, and becomes filled with epithelial cells and particles of earthy material, called brain-sand. The ancients had a grotesque theory that the epiphysis is the favorite and peculiar abiding place of the human soul. Modern morphologists have shown it to be the homologue of the third eye which some rejjtiles possess. It pro- jects outside of the ventricle, and rests upon the two upper quadrigemina. It has