375 THE HEART. OUTER COAT The Arteries. The arteries (arterice) are the tulies by which blood is carried away from the heart. The name etymologically conveys the idea that tliese vessels are air- bearers, the ancients regarding them as performing the function of distributing air to the tissues, because they C(mtain no blood or other liquid after death. But although this belief was long ago exploded, the name is not altogether inappro- priate, and may be considered a propiietic blunder; for physiology demon- strates that the blood in the arteries is laden with oxygen, which is the essential nourishing ingredient in the air, and the most important element in the income of the body. The Coats of Arteries.—An artery has three coats—an inner, a middle, and an outer. The points of especial practical value about these tunics are as follows: the inner coat (tunica intima) is serous, like the lining of every other portion of the vascular sy.stem ; the outer coat (tunica adventitia) is composed of white fibrous tissue, with its bundles ELASTIC LAYER )m|DDLE , , • l- 11 1 , CONTRACTILE LAYER s COAT arraugccl lougituclinaliy ; and between . these two is the mkkUe coat (tunica media), made up of plain muscular and yellow fibrous tissues (Fig. 433). While this statement of the struct- Fig. 433.-Diagram of a cross-section of an artery, ^-6 of the arteries embraces the es- showing the composition of its tunics. (F. H. G.) • i p n i • i • i • i sential features oi their physiological anatomv, a somewhat detailed description will not be out of place. The inner coat has three layers : an epithelial, consisting of flat, polygonal cells ; a sub- epithelial, of white fibrous tissue, with sometimes yellow fibrous ; and an elastic, of yellow fibrous tissue, closely reticu- lated. The middle coat is composed of plain muscular fibres, arranged crosswise in lavers (Fig. 434j, between which there is more or less yellow fibrous tissue. ml i J. „ il „,l,£1 . Fii"'- -1?4.—Diagram of the arrangement of mus- rhe outer coat, mostly of white fibrous, cle-ceUs in an arteriole. (F. H. G.) contains yellow fibres. Thus it appears that each tunic has some elastic tissue, the bulk of which, however, is an ingre- dient of the middle one. The Functions of the Arterial Coats.—The inner tunic by its smoothness reduces the friction of the blood-current to its lowest terms ; the outer by its strength and toughness is protective ; the middle by virtue of its elasticity enables the vessel to return passively to its average diameter after it has been distended, and on account of its contractility serves actively to reduce the bore of the tube to less than its average. The larger the artery the greater is the relative amount of yel- low fibrous tissue ; and the smaller the artery the greater the relative amount of muscular tissue. The relativity of the quantity of these ingredients should be carefully noted ; for, while the comparative contribution of muscle to a minute artery is great, its absolute amount is very small. From these facts it may be inferred that the large arteries are very elastic and but slightly contractile; the small are highly contractile, and only feebly elastic; and those of medium size possess both of these attributes to a considerable extent, the one or the other pre- dominating according to the degree of nearness to the distal or the proximal limits of 1:he arterial system. Vessels and Nerves of Arteries.—Outside of the artery is an enclosing sheath of areolar tissue, in which are situated the nerves and blood-vessels of the artery itself. These are called respectively nervi arteriariim and vasa arteriarum ; but, as the veins are similarly provided, generic, instead of the above specific, names are more frequently used—nervi vasorum and vasa vasorum, respectively " the nerves of the vessels " and " the vessels of the vessels." In surgical operations