OSSEOUS TISSUE. 53 fibrous layer, the endosteum, meaning the structure " within the bone." Tlie material in the outer parts of the bone is very dense, and is, consequently, known as compact osseous tissue. It is veiy thick in the shaft, but shades off toward the expanded extremities, and in them is merely a thin shell. The residue of the bone has the appearance of a network, with the finest meshes nearest the outer surface, the coarsest next to the marrow-cavity. It is called spongif osseous tissue, on account of its porous character, and cancellous, from its being a latticework. But compact and spongy are terms which have ref- erence only to gross appearances, which are caused by the arrangement of the material: the structure is essentially the same everywhere. The marrow- cavity is occujiied by the marrow or 'medulla, a very vascular material, contain- ing many peculiar bodies {marrow-cells^, Avhich are largely changed into oil as adult life is approached, the color of the marrow being, therefore, altered from red to yellow. Osseous tissue is one of the hardest materials in the body, being surpassed in density by two tissues only—dentine and enamel—both of which exist in tlie teeth. It is very tough and elastic, as well as hai'd, and will resist great strain without breaking. It is composed of two kinds of substance, earthy and animal, so intimately commingled that, if either is removed, the other maintains the form of bone even in its minute details. Tlie earthy matter, which is mostly salts of lime and makes up two-thirds of the weight of the bone, can be removed by the action of a dilute acid. The bone is thus decalcified, and consists of a brownish, tough, flexible, and elastic material, so free from stiffness that the bone, if a very long one, may be tied into a knot (Fig. 42). The animal matter can be driven off by heat. When this has been done, the bone is white, rigid, and brittle to the last degree : it can be crushed into fragments between the thumb and finger. In the fresh condition the color of bone is delicate pink in the compact portion, deep red in the cancel- lated. If the shaft of a long bone is sawed in two transversely, and a very thin slice is removed from the cut surface and examined with the microscope, it will be seen that there are numerous nearly cir- cular or oval perforations, around each of which is a series of con- centric rings, which represent long, hollow cylinders fitted accurately one over another, so as to form a solid rod perforated from end to end (Fig. 43). Tliis constitutes a Haversian system, named from the celebrated anatomist. Havers. The concentric rings are la- melke or lamime (" layers"), and the hole in their midst is a Haversian canal. In the solid substance of the rod are numerous small exca- vations called lacunoe ("little lakes"), from which radiate in every direction fine channels, called canaliculi ("little canals"), which, by uniting with those from neighboring lacuufe, establish a free communication between the Haversian canal and the lacunae farthest away from it. The lacunas and canaliculi are lymph- paths, and are important agents in the nutrition of the bone. Tlie Haversian canal is occupied by blood-vessels, nerves, and lymphatic vessels, all imbedded in a mass of areolar tissue. The canals have a general longitudinal direction, but some run more obliquely and connect the more vertical. Immediately subjacent to the periosteum and parallel to it is a series of lamellae which form a continuous sheath for the more central parts, and are called circumferentied lamelke. A similar arrangement obtains at the inner free surface, several concentric lamellae encircling the medullary cavity, and standing in the relation to it that the Haversian lamellaB do to their central canal. Indeed, this inner circumferential series with its con- tained marrow has been called a mammoth Haversian system. In the spaces between the Haversian systems are sei'ies of layers arranged at irregular angles to each other. They are called intermediate lamelke, and, like the inner and outer -Human bone which has been deprived of its eartliy matter and tied in a Icnot. (Dalton.)