242 THE ARTICULATIONS. oblique ridge. The superior calcaneo-cuboid ligament connects the adjacent parts of the upper surfaces of the two bones, blending; externally with the outer part of the short plantar ligament, and internally with the internal or interosseous ea/eaneo- cuhoid ligament. This strong band connects the inner surfaces of the two bones near their articular margins, lying deeply in the hollow between the os caleis and astragalus, where it is closely connected with the external calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. The synoinal membrane is separate from that of the other tarsal joints. Movements.—The movements of the fore part of the foot on the hind part take place at the medio-tarsal joint. The movements at the calcaneo-astragaloid joints are inversion and eversion (turning of the sole iuAvai'd and outward respectively), and adduction and abduction (the movement of the front of the foot to and from the median line resjjectively). Both of these forms of move- ment occur also in the medio-tarsal joint, and besides them there is here quite free flexion and extension around an oblique axis, extending from within outward and somewhat backward and downward. Flexion is simultaneous with extension at the ankle, and extension, which is more limited, is simultaneous with flexion at the ankle. Thus, the variety and range of motion of the foot are increased beyond the limited flexion and extension allowed in the ankle. The astragalo- scaphoid joint is of the ball-and-socket variety, but, owing to the connection of the scaphoid and cuboid bones, its motions are so restricted by the concavo-convex calcaneo-cuboid joint that adduction and inversion are combined with flexion and abduction, and eversion with extension, the latter being limited by the plantar ligaments. The calcaneo-scaphoid ligaments also limit motion here. At the medio-tarsal and astragalo-calcaneal joints increase of the arch, combined with adduction and inversion, or decrease of the arch with abduction and eversion, may occur, leading respectively to club- or flat-foot, when for any reason these posi- tions are exaggerated and j^ermanent. In the Cubo-scaphoid joint the cuboid and navicular are united by—(1) a dor- sal ligament, passing obliquely for\\'ard and outward from the scaphoid to the cuboid ; (2) a plantar ligament, similarly disposed on the plantar surface ; and (3) a strong interosseous ligamerd, connecting their contiguous surfaces, which, when they touch, present small articular facets, whose connecting ligaments are lined by an extension of the scapho-cuneiform sy^iovial viemhrane. The Scapho-cuneiform Articulation.—The navicular is united in one continuous joint to the three cuneifVirm bones in front of it by (1) strong r?o;-.sa/ ligaments from the upper surface of the scaphoid to that of each of the three cuneiform bones ; and (2) by j)lanteir ligaments similarly disposed beneath and continuous with the fibres of the tibialis posterior tendon, which, by passing outward as well as forward, strengthens the transverse arch of the foot. The dorsal and plantar ligaments are continuous on the inner aspect of the internal cuneiform bone. The Cubo-cuneiform Articulation.—Transverse fibres unite the dorsal, plantar, and contiguous surfaces of the cuboid and external cuneiform bones, forming the dorsal, plantar and interossenus ligaments. Intercuneiform Articulations.—The three cuneiform bones are similarly con- nected by transverse dorsal and strong interosseous ligaments. On the plantar surfixce there is a strong band passing outward and forward from the inner to the middle cuneiform bone, but the tibialis jjosterior tendon serves for the plantar ligaments. S;/novial llembrane.—A single synovial cavity is common to the scapho- cuneiform and the intercuneiform joints, and usually to the cubo-cuneiform joint, tliough the latter may have a separate synovial cavity. The synovial cavity between the cuneiform bones usually extends between the internal and middle cuneiform, to become continuous with that of the tarso-metatarsal joints between the middle and external cuneiforms behind and the second and third metatarsals in front. The movements in the above arthrodial joints, between the tarsal bones in