366 THE BLOOD- VASCULAR SYSTEM. chamber is named ventricle, from its bulging like a prominent abdomen. The auricles are spoken of as if they were entirely on a higher level than the ventri- cles, whereas they are nearly on the same plane. Each auricle receives blood from veins, and delivers it to the corresponding- ventricle, which then discharges it through an artery. The Circulation of the Blood. The course of the blood is as fjllows : (Fig. 423) Beginning in the auricle of the right side, the Ijlood, which has just come from the tissues of the entire body, passes through the large aperture by which the auricle communicates with its ventricle, and which is called the right auriculo-ventricular opening; from the right ventricle it is driven through the pulmonary artery to the lungs, through the walls of whose capillaries it loses certain impurities and gains oxygen from the air, thus being changed from venous blood to arterial ; from the lungs it flows through the jiulmonary veins to the left auricle, thence through the left auriculo-ventricular opening to the left ventricle, whence it is forced into the aorta, the great trunk of the general arterial system, and by this and its branches it is distributed throughout the body. From the twigs of the arterial sys- tem the blood is poured into the ca])il- laries, and here parts with nourishing materials, synchronously receiving a load of effete substances, in this way being altered from arterial to venous. From the capil- laries it courses into the veins, which con- duct it to the right auricle, the place fi'om which the reckoning began. This descrip- tion of the track of the blood confirms the statement previ<iusly made that the com- munication between the right and left sides of the heart is not direct, through the par- tition wall, but is entirely indirect—it being necessary for the blood to go out of the heart and through the capillaries of some organ in order to get from either side to the other. The journey of the blood from the right heart to the left through the capillaries of the lungs is the less or pulmonary cir- culation ; and the passage of tlie blood from the left heart to the right through the capillaries of the organs of the body is the great or systemic circulation. It is to be noted that, in going through the lung-capillaries, the blood is changed from venous to arterial; and that, in its course through the capillaries of the general system, the reverse occurs—it is altered from arterial to venous. The kind of blood contained in a vessel does not, however, make the latter either vein or artery, as the pulmonary artery bears foul or venous blood, and the pulmonary veins are full of jiurified or arterial blood. Arteries carry blood, red or blue, from the heart; veins carry blood, blue or red, to the heart. The Tissues of the Heart.—The lining of the heart, like that of all other parts of the vascular system, is serous membrane, and is called endocardium (" within the heart"). The outer covering, too, is serous, and is called pericardium Fig. 423.—Diagram to sliow the course of the blood in passing from a given point through the two sets of capillaries to the starting point. (F. H. G.)