THE CEREBRUM. 513 occipital, is frequently an irregular, somewhat liroken fissure, the precuneal or subparietal ; and running nearly horizontally in the midst of the sloping tentorial Fig. 558.—The lobes of the mesial and tentorial surfaces of the left hemisphere. surface is the collater'al fissure. The area between the calloso-marginal fissure and the upper edge of the hemisphere belongs to the frontal lobe ; that bounded by the upturned end of the calloso-marginal fissure, the free border, the jjarieto-occipital, and the precuneal fissures is a part of the parietal; that between the parieto-occipital and the calcarine fissures is a portion of the occipital; and all below the level of the anterior limb of the calcarine is often as- signed to the temporal. But the part of the temporal mass which is anterior to the tip of the calcarine fissure and above the collateral fissure is better associated with the area ^vhich is bounded peripherally by the calloso- marginal, precuneal, and calcarine fissures, to which (with several other structures, which need not be mentioned at present) are given the names of limbic lobe and falciform lobe, the former from its forming a border for the calhjsum, the latter because the sweep of its curve is suggestive of a sickle. If we look at the hemisphere from below, we see parts of the temporal, limbic, frontal, and occipital lobes (Fig. 559). We have now before us the primary superficial divisions of the hemisphere, namely, the insula, the frontal lobe, the parietal lobe, the occipital lobe, the temporal lobe, and the limbic lobe, and are prepared to consider the subdivisions of each of them. These secondary parts are gyri, and are sepa- rated from each other by fissures. Gyri of the Insula.—The inmla or central lobe has five gyri, which radiate from the narrow lower part, like the folds of a fan from its handle (Fig. 5oG). They are separated from each other by simple fissures, 33 FiG.559»—The lobes of the left hemisphere, seen from below.