YULLOW FIBROUS AND AREOLAR TISSUES. 47 Yellow Fibrous Tissue. This texture is composed mainly of fibres, and in large masses presents a delicate yellow hue, from which facts it is named. Under the microscope its fibres are seen to differ materially from those of white fibrous tissue : they are ribbon-like, thick, branched, and curled at the ends into hooks, which result from their fracture in the preparatory teasing (Fig. 30). The chief physical properties of this tissue are strength, flexibility, and elasticity, the last being that which dis- tinguishes it from all others, and gives it the name by which it is often known, " elastic tissue." Elasticity, the quality which restores bodies possessing it to their normal shape after distortion, is not to be confounded with contractility, the attribute which enables a body to shorten a diameter (for example, to draw its two ends nearer to each other) under the influence of a stimulus. Elasticity is a merely passive property : it cannot display itself until some outside force has stretched or otherwise deformed the substance in which it resides ; but contractility is active, and is manifested under influences which have no such ett'ect upon elastic bodies. The elasticity of yellow fibrous tissue, while disqualifying it for the work of tendons, eminently fits it for other duties, and it is found performing valuable service in many places. Wherever it is located, it does precisely such work as india-rubber would do, if simi- larly arranged. It is commonly associated with white fibrous tissue, though in relatively small quantities. The amount of it in the system is not large as compared with that of white fibrous tissue. The cleai'est masses of it are the ligamenta subflava between the laminse of the vertebrse. Its strength is not equal to that of the white fibrous. Fig. 30.—Yellow fibrous tis- (Queckett.) Areolar Tissue. Areola is the Latin word for " a little space," and areolar tissue gets its name from its appearance of being full of minute spaces. It is sometimes called " cellu- lar tissue "—a term which has no justification to the histologist, to whom the word "cell" has come to have an arbitrary meaning, entirely independent of its etymol- ogy. The designation " cellular tissue " is applicable properly only to a texture made up substantially of the histological elements called cells—such a tissue, for instance, as epithelium. In areolar tissue we discover no material different from those which we have already studied—only a new arrangement of some of them. It is composed of a mixture of white and yellow fibrous tissues, so disposed in irregularly criss-crossed bundles as to make a network, the meshes of which bound innumerable areolae (Fig. 31). The bulk of each bundle is white fibrous tissue, and around it are loosely twined threads of yellow fibrous tissue. The little spaces between the meshes are not definitely walled, but are indescribably irregular cavities, which communicate in the freest way with each other (Fig. 32). The fasciculi are moist- ened by a lymph-like fluid, which contributes to their flexibility and diminishes the friction between them. Areolar tissue is found almost everywhere subjacent to the skin and mucous and serous membranes, between muscles, blood-vessels, nerves, and other parts. It forms a layer which is attached on one side to the deeper structure, on the other side to the more superficial. When one of these structures moves, the areolar tissue permits it to slide upon the other for a little distance, the wavy bundles of white fibrous tissue being straightened out, and the narrow ribbons of yellow fibrous being put on the stretch. The motion ceasing and the disturbing