EMBRYOLOGY. 102 muscle- and fascia-layers of the abdominal walls wliioli ])receded the peritoneal process. Tlie cord, which represents the round ligament, is to be found in the adult in a small cord which passes from the epididymis to the wall of the scrotum, and is termed the gubernamluui. ' ' It has already been stated that the allantois does not entirely degenerate at birth, the middle part of its intra-embryoiiic portion persisting "as the urinary hl(i(](]cr, and the part between this and the umbilicus becomingConvei-ted into a solid cord, known as the nrachm. The part between the bladder and the intes- tine forms what is termed the urocjrnital .sinus, and into it the Miillerian and Wolffian duets open. In the development of the ureters the portions of the Wolffian ducts between their point of origin and the sinus are, in the male, gradually taken up into the sinus, so that the ureters and the vasa defei-entia have sejiarate openings, the former uniting with the base of the bladder, ^^•hile the latter open into the sinus. Since the allantois is connected with the intes- tine, that portion of the digestive tract receives the urinary and genital products as well as the fieces, and tlius receives the name of the cloaca (Fig. 115). At an early period this cloaca becomes di- vided by a partition into a dorsal and a ventral portion; this partition becom- LOWER LIMB CLOACa GLANS PENIS GEN ITAL RIDGE GENITAL FOLD GENITAL FURROW Fig. 115.—External view of the cloaca. (Hertwig.) Fig. 116.—Anlage of the penis or clitoris. (Hertwig.) ing gradually thicker, the dorsal portion, representing the lowermost part of the rectum, becomes sejmrated from the ventral ])ortion, the region intervening between the two being the perineuvi (Fig. 117). In the mean time, however, on each side of the urogenital opening a ridge of skin, the anlage of the scrotum in the male and the labia majora of the female, has appeared, and between the anterior (ventral) ends of the ridges a tubercle develops, along whose posterior surface a groove is formed Avliieh opens proxi- mally into the urogenital sinus. This tubercle is the anlage of the penis or clitoris (Fig. 116), and at this stage there is practically no dili'erence between the male and female genitalia. In the male the lips of the penial groove now meet together and fuse, the groove being thereby converted into a canal continuous with the urogenital sinus, the canal and sinus together constituting what is GLANS PENIS GENITAL RIDGE GENITAL FUhROW GENITAL FOLD PERINEUM Fi<;. 11".—Foriiiiitioii of tlie perineum, separating the alimentary and tlie genito-uriiiary passages. (Hertwig.) ]m... 11'- (Hertw ig.) trig; Ik GLANS PENIS PREPUCE ■GENITAL FOLD GENITAL FURROW SCROTUM RAPHE OF SCROTUM iii vrlupim iit 1.1 uixtlira and scrotum. termed the urethra of the adult. As a result of this closure of the groove the scrotal ridges of either side are brought into contact, and fuse together below the penis to form the adult scrotuvi (Fig. 118). In the female the lips