99 THE EXCRETORY AND REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS. The pronephros, however, is but a transitory organ, and it soon degenerates ; a second excretory organ, the mesovephroH or Wolffian body, makes its appearance, its deveh^pnient being similar to that of the pronephros. Its tubules, which open at one end into the ccelom and at the other into the Wolffian duct, reach a consider- AORTA. Fig. 112.—Diagram of the various excretory organs successively developed in the formation of the urinary system. (Testut.) able length, and become much contorted, and a knot of capillary blood-vessels, developing in contact with each tubule, pushes its wall in front of it to form a glomerulus projecting into the tubule. The tubules early lose their connection with the ccelom, and, though at first they present a strictly segmental arrange- ment, this is not adhered to, as secondary and tertiary tubules arise from each mesodermal somite, develop glomeruli, and unite with tlie primary tul)ules to I open into the Wolffian duct. The Wolffian body thus becomes an exceedingly I complicated organ, which, on account of its size, forms a sti'ong projection into I the coelom from the dorsal wall of the body. But even this second kidney does not persist into adult life as a functional excretory organ, but portions of it degenerate, while other parts are adapted to new functions, its excretory functions being assumed by a new kidney, the meta- nephwft. This appears as a tubular outgrowth from the dorsal surface of the lower part of each A^'olffian duct, and from the anterior end of this a number of tubules grow out and push their way into a mass of mesodermal tissue which has concentrated around them. The original outgrowths become the ureters, and tlie tubules, which become very numerous, develop into the uriuai'i/ tubules, in connec- tion with which r/lomerull (Malpigliian corpuscles), derived from the mesodermal mass, develop. The compact organ thus formed becomes the functional kidney of the adult. When the Wolffian bodies are fully developed a cord of cells appears on the lateral surface of each of them, and becomes converted into a canal opening ' behind into the cloaca and in front into the coelom. This is the Mi'dlcrian duct, and by the time it is establisln'd a thickening of the ]ieritoneal cells covering the mesial surfaces of each Wolffian body aj^pears, forming the f/erininal ridges,{rom which the ovaries or testes develop. In the case of the ovaries the mesenchyma-