777 THE URINARY SYSTEM. By p. H. GERRISH. THE double function of appropriation and flimination belongs both to the ali- nientarv and to the respiratory systems, each being concerned in the supply of new material, and also in the casting oft'of eft'ete substances. But the urinary svsteni is simply excretory : its only ofiice is relieving the body of certain waste products, which, if allowed to remain in it, would injure the organism, and ulti- mately destroy life. Tiie organs of the urinary system are the two hidneys, which form the urine from materials furnished by the blixtd ; the ureters, ducts whicli convey the urine away from the kidneys ; the bladder, a reservoir in which the urine is stored until circinnstances are convenient for its discharge ; and the urethra, a tube thi'ough which the urine passes from the bladder, and is finally voided. THE KIDNEYS. The essential organs of the urinary system are the kidneys. The materials which they abstract from the blood are in solution in water, and this solution is the urine. The formation of this fluid is constant; and, as fast as it is produced, it is conducted to the bladder. In some details of gross anatomy the two kid- neys differ slightly, as will be related subsequently ; but functionally they are identical, and the physiological anatomy of one is exactly like that of the other. A kidney is a compound, tubular gland—a vast multitude of microscojn'c tubes, all lined with epithelial cells, and abundantly supjilicd with blood-vessels. The study of a single one of these tubes reveals the physiological anatomy of the kidney, and with that it is best to begin. A uriniferous tube starts as a hollow globe (the cajisule) ; then come in regular succession a constricted part (the neck), a tortuous (the proximal convoluted tube), an undulating and twisted (the spiral tube), a long portion bent so aljruptly near its middle that the two parts are parallel (the looped tube), a ])ortion with a zig- zag contour, full of short lines and marked angles (the irregular tube), a second tortuous part (the distal convoluted tube), a short, arching part (the junctional or arched collecting tube), and, finally, a long portion (the straight collecting tube), the wide, terminal part of Avhich is called the excretory tube.' The various parts of this long tube diflx'r not only in shape and direction but in diameter. All of these features will be seen in the part of Fig. 846, at the extreme left. Structure of a Uriniferous Tube.—The tube is composed of a basement mem- brane and a single layer of epithelial cells, which rest upon it and vary in form according to their situation. In most narrow portions of the tube and in the capsule they are flattened ; in the neck and collecting tubes they are cuboidal or columnar ; and elsewhere they are somewhat cuboidal and granidar toward the ' The capsule is called also the capsule of Bowman, the looped tube is known as Henle's, the irregular bears the name of Schachowa, and the excretory is known as the duct of Bellini.