EMBRYOLOGY. 82 the sheet does not long remain single, but a split occurs in it, so that it becomes separated into two layers (Fig. 94), an outer one adjacent to the ectoderm and termed the parietal or somatic layer, and an inner one adjacent to the endoderm and known as the visceral or splanchnic layer. The cavity which separates these two layers is known as the ccelom, or body-cavity, and at first is continuous through- out the entire extent of the mesoderm. A second dilierentiation, however, early sii])ervenes, consisting of the separation, on each side, of a small ])ortion of the cadom from the rest, the somatic and splanchnic layers of mesoderm coming into contact and fusing a short distance external to the median line, while, at about the same time, a series of transverse constrictions divides this inner, narrower portion of the mesoderm into a series of oblong boxes which are termed protovertehra', or, better, mesodermal somites (Fig. 95). The formation of these somites begins in CEREBRAL VESICLES PRIMITIVE LINE. Fig. 95.—Development of somites. (Testut.) \\\Vc\i M'ill be the neck region of the embryo, and thence extends forward and backward until the entire median portion of the mesoderm, not only in what will be the trunk of the future embryo, but also in the head region, is divided into a series of somites. Each of these in the trunk region is connected with the more peri])heral undivided mesoderm by an intermediate cell-mass, which represents the longitudinal fusion of the somatic (parietal) and splanchnic (visceral) layers, and each contains a small portion (jf the originally continuous cadom. While these changes have been going on, the endoderm continues its extension, and finally its edges fuse at the lower pole of the blastodermic vesicle, which thus, tlu'oughout its entire extent outside the end)ryonic shield, becomes two-layered. The shield itself has also increased considerably in size, and allows certain regions to be distinguished. Along its median line are to be seen (Fig. 95) the anlagen of the embryo just described, and this region and the immediately adjacent parts may be termed the embryonic area ; external to this is a region where the shield presents a somewhat transparent apjiearanee, and this is termed the area pellu- cida; while the more perijiheral portions are ojjaque and receive the name of the area opaca. In this last region extensive changes have been taking jilace in the mesoderm : some of its cells arrange themselves so as to form a network of coi'ds, into the substance of which fluid penetrates from the surrounding tissues, the cords being thus transformed into canals in which lie numerous cells. These