539 THE MESENCEPHALON. CORPORA QUADRIGEMINA LATERAL GROOVE sometimes called the natca, and a lower (posterior), known also as the tedcs. A median groove separates the right tubercles from the left, and ends above at the posterior commissure ; and the superior are divided from the inferior by a trans- verse gutter. At the outer sides the quadrigemina run upward and forward into the brachia (Fig. 597). A cross-section of the isthmus (Figs. 594, 595) shows that each lateral half is divided into two unequal parts by a band of nerve-cells, so deeply pigmented as to have received the name of loms niger (•'the black place"). Ventrally to this is the column of white nervous tissue whicli forms a side boundary to the interpeduncular space, and is called the crnsta (" crust"). Dorsally is a mass of mingled white and gray, the tegmentum ("covering"). At each border the locus niger comes to the surface at a groove, that which is mesial being the place of emergence of the third cranial nerve, and the other, called the lateral groove, runs from the internal geniculate body to a point between the superior and middle peduncles of the cerebellum. The crusta is largely composed of flat bundles of white tissue which present their edges at the free surface. The part of the crusta close to the locus niger is the stratum intermedium. The tegmentum extends from Fig. ; cephalon INTERPEDUNCULAR SPACE i94.—Transverse section . (Testiit.) LOCUS NIGER if the mesen- STRATUM INTERMEDIUM Fig. 595.—Transverse section through the anterior quadrigemina. (Testut, after Stilling.). the locus niger up to the level of the aqueduct, and above this plane is the lamina (ptadrigeinina, tqion which the corpora quadrigemina rest. The aqueduct is a small canal and is surrounded by a considerable thickness of gray, in which are embedded clusters of nerve-cells, which are connected with the roots of tlie third, fourth, and fifth cranial nerves. In the fore part of the tegmentum is a globular collection of cells, the i^ed nucleus, through which pass the roots of the oculo- motor (third) nerve. On the surface of the tegmentum above the lateral groove appears the external portion of the lemniscus. The anterior extremity of the