830 THE ORGANt^ OF GENERATION. the long axis of the uterus ; in women who liave borne cliiklren it is plaeed at the junction of the middle and lower thirds. It divides the uterus into the body above and the cervix below. The body presents for description two surfaces, two borders, two extremities, and two angles. The anterior surface is slightly, the posterior markedly, convex and both are covered by peritoneum. The lateral borders, also convex, converge a little as they run downward to the isthmus. The sujierior extremity or fuiidm (sometimes called a border) is broad, convex, and covered by the peritoneum, as it passes from the anterior to the posterior surface. At the inferior extremity the body is continuous with the cervix. The angles, right and left, are formed by the junction of the superior extremity with the lateral borders. They are continuous with the corres]>onding Fallopian tubes. The cervix, narrower than the body and cylindrical in form, lias a slightly wider diameter in the middle than at either extremity. It is continuous above with the body, below it projects into the vagina, which is attached around its circumference somewhat higher behind than in front. Tliat ])ortion al)ove the vaginal attachment (supra-vaginal segment) comprises about two-tliirds of the total length of the cervix in front, about one half V)ehind. The uiiddle or vaginal segment—tluit part to which the ^■agina is attached—is about one-fifth of an inch in length, and is placed obliquely. The lower or intra-vaginal segment is cone-shaped, covered by mucous membrane like that of the vagina, and presents at its summit a ciirular or transverse aperture, the external os. Internal Conformation.—The cavity of the uterus is divided into two parts by the internal os. The upper portion belongs to the body, the k)wer to tlie cervix. The long axes of these segments may lie in the same straight line, but usually tliey join to form an angle, opening anteriorly, of 140^ to 170° (Testut). The cavity of the body (Figs. 894, 895), triangular in outline and with the Fig. 894.—The uterus of a virgin, in coronal Fig. 895.—The uterus of a woman wlio has borne a section. child, in coronal section. base uppermost, presents two surfaces, three borders, and three open angles. The surfaces, anterior and posterior, are in contact. All the borders, in the virgin, are convex internally ; in women who have borne children the two lateral are straight or even concave. At the superior angles the cavity of the body communicates with the oviducts, at the inferior angle, or internal os, it is con- tinuous with the cervical canal. The cavity of the cervix, fusiform in outline, presents two surfaces, two boi'ders, and two openings. The surfaces, distinguished as anterior and posterior, are in contact. On each may be seen a peculiar formation, the arbo)- vike uterma cedar of the womb "), consisting of a median longitudinal ridge, from which