115 THE 8PIN.E. The surface of young bones is comparatively smooth. The rough lines and ridges on adult bones are due to ossification at the attachment of muscles. Any marked bony prominence may be called a process or apophysis ("out-growth") ; if blunt, a tnbcj'osifi/ when large, a tubercle when small ; if sharp, a spine or spinous process; if long, a line or ridge, when narrow, a crest, when broader; if articular, a comhile (" knuckle"), or a head when supported on a constricted part or nech. A depression or hollow sjiace in or upon a bone or between several bones is sometimes called a fossa (" ditch "). A glenoid (" cavity-like ") fossa refers to a shallow articular depression, a cotyloid{^^ cu])-like") /o.S'S« to a deeper one. Sinus and antrum are terms applied to cavities within certain bones. A fissure is a narrow slit; a foramen a short ojiening ; a carnal or meatus, a longer, tube-like passage-way. Other terms used require no explanation. In describing the different aspects of a bone or other anatomical part the body is supposed to be in the erect position. A surfiice, extremity, or other part directed toward the head is called superior ; toward the feet, inferior ; toward the ! front, ventrcd or anterior; toward the back, dorsal or posterior. That as])ect directed toward the median, vertical, antero-postei'ior plane of the body is called internal or mesial; that away from the same plane, external or lateral. THE SPINE. I The spine, or vertebral column, is composed of 26 superimposed bones called j t)erfe6ra; (" capable of turning"). The name .s;y;//(f is derived from the series of spines or spinous processes which are the most obvious portions of the column of I bones in the undissected body. Of these the upj^er 24 are true or movable vertebra', and are divided from above downward into 7 cervical, 12 thoracic, and 5 lumbar. Of the two lower composite bones comprising the false vertebra;, the upper one, or sncmm, is formed by the fusion of 5 vertebra^ and the lower one, or coccyx, of 4 ankylosed, vestigial, terminal vertebra?, all separate in early life. A typical vertebra consists of a body or centrum in front, with a neural arch behind, which completes the vertebral foramen, in the series of which the spinal I cord and its membranes are lodged and protected. The disc-like body supports and bears the weight of the head and truidv. Its superior and inferior surfaces are flattened or slightly concave, and rough for the connecting intervertebral discs. The circumference is concave vertically, convex \ horizontally, but behind it is concave in both directions, where it bounds the I foramen and presents large foramina for veins. j The neural arch is formed of two symmetrical halves, and consists of two j pedicles and two lamina?, supporting seven processes—tour articular, two trans- j verse, and one spinous. The pedicles ("little feet"), or ventral parts of the arch, consist of two nai"- row, thick piers of bone, projecting horizontally back from the up})er jiart of the dorsal and external aspect of the body. Above and below the pedicles are the vertebrcd notches, Avhich, Avith notches of adjacent vertebrte, form the intervertebral foramina for the passage of the s])inal nerves and vessels. The lamina', broad and flat, comjilete the arch by fusing together in the median j line behind. Tlieir upper borders and lower anterior parts are rough for the attachment of the ligamenta subflava. The spinous process projects backward in the median line from the junction of the laminae, and serves for the attachment of muscles and ligaments. The transverse jivocesses project outward from the junction of the pedicles and laminae on each side. I The articular jyt'ocesses present an up]ier and a lower jjair, extending upward and downward from the roots of the transverse processes, for articulation with the pairs above and below. The articular surfaces of the upper and lower pairs look in the opposite direction.