THE CAVITY OF THE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. 501 stantially equal size, -whose cavities communicate through central apertures (Fig. 533). These five vesicles are the primary forms of the five grand divisions of the adult encephalon, and are named in order, from before backward, prosenceph- alon, diencephalon, mesencejjhalon, ejjencepjJialon, and metencepjJtalon. The first and second show a tendency in the developed state to revert to their oi'iginal con- dition of unity, and the same is true of the fourth and fifth ; but the third remains single and distinct from its earliest appearance to its most complete development. Vernacular names also are given them—forebrain, betweenbrain, midl^rain, hindbrain, afterbrain—but only the first of them is so clearly descriptive as to convey infalliljly the idea intended, and it would be better to discard them for the technical appellations, which, while etymolngically not greatly superior, are widely used by the scientific with definite meanings, and are understood by all anatomists. When these vesicles are first observed, they are, as has been said, aljout equal in size and very similar in form ; but the likeness which they bear to each other does not long continue : they grow at very different rates of speed, and, when fully developed, are so dissimilar in appearance that it is difficult to understand that they could have been of almost identical shaj)e and bulk at any former period. Some parts, which are brought into close contact with others, seem to blend; while others, in nearly similar conditions, undergo shrinkage, and finally disappear. FIRST VESICLE THE CAVITY OF THE CEREBRO-SPINAL AXIS. Let 115 first consider the cavitif of the cerebro-spinal axis, ignoring for the while the enclosing Avails ; and, when Ave haA-e gained a comprehension of this, Ave can proceed more understandingly to the study of the surrounding solid material. Supjiose the caA-ities of the fiA^e encephalic A^esicles to be of equal size, and that of the spinal cord to be a cylindrical continuation from the fifth or hindmost vesicle. We haA'e then, to start Avith, a series of chambers, each communicating freely Avith the one next behind it. This continuity of the caA'ities is always maintained, CA'cn though the original chambers un- dergo alterations of form so prodigious that only a very slight resemblance to the primitiA'e shape re- mains. For the sake of sim- plification we Avill first examine the subject dia- grammatically, taking the A-esicles one by one in regular order ; and, in con- sidering each, A\-e Avill ignore as far as possible the changes which in nature take place in its immediate neighbors synchronously with those in itself. To begin Avith Ave haA'e t\w first reside, the most anterior—the prosencephalon —Avhich ultimately becomes the cerebral hemispheres. From the upper and front part of its globular caA'ity on each side a little sprout is put forth (Fig. 534). The distal end of this protrusion enlarges, and becomes of much greater size than the parent caA'ity (Fig. 535). Then each of the new appendages sends out a prolongation forward, a second backward, and a third which curls sidewise and downward. These, from their shape, are called horns or cornua (Fig. 536). In this process of enlargement the original A'esicle is so far outgrown by its off- shoots that it is in great danger of being lost sight of. The chief cavity on each side is called a ventricle, and, from its being at the side, lateral. Of the lateral Fig. 534 —Diagram of the formation of the portae. Fig. 535.—Diagram of the formation of the bodies of the lateral ventricles.