THE MANDIBLE, OR INFERIOR 3IAXILLARY BONE. 187 ponil ridge above, and attaches the temporal fascia. The podcrior inferioi- or mas- seterie border completes the lower edge of the zygomatic arch and attaches some fibres of the masseter. The antero-inferior or maxillary border, the inferior angle, FRONTAL Fig. 212.—Right malar bone, outer surface. (Testut.) Fig. 213.—Rightmalarbone.innersurface. (Testut.) and the anterior angle or maxillary process articulate with the maxilla. The anfero-superior or orbifnl border is curved to form the outer margin and the outer half of the lower margin of the orbit. From this border the curved, triangular orbital process projects backward and inward, and forms the anterior boundary of the temporal fossa and the fore part of the outer wall and floor of the orbit. It articulates above with the frontal, and behind with the great wing of the sphenoid and the orbital plate of the maxilla. Between the articulations with the latter two bones there is usually a free margin bounding the sphcno-maxillarv fissure in front. The temporal and malar canals, for the temporo-malar branches of the fifth nerve, are seen on the orlntal surface. Ossification proceeds in membrane from two or sometimes three centres, and the adult bone is occasionally divided by a horizontal suture into two unequal parts. THE MANDIBLE, OR INFERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. The loiver jaio-bone (Figs. 214, 21.5) is a large, strong, horseshoe-shaped bone, forming the lower third of the facial skeleton, and articulating by means of a pair of condyles with the glenoid fossae of the temporal bones. It consists of a nearly horizontal body in front and two posterior vertical portions or rami. Fig. 214.—The mandible, viewed from the right and a little in front. (Testut.) The body consists of two symmetrical, lateral halves, whose symphysis ("together-growth") or union in the middle Ww h mi\YkQ(\ on the external sur- face by a faint vertical ridge which expands below into the triangular mental protuberance or chin. The centre of the base of the protuberance may be