871 N0B3IA L &'A'IA GBA PHS. III. NORMAL SKIAGRAPHS. A little more than three years ago it was discovered that certain rays of light have the power of passing tliroiigli substances which to ordinary rays are impene- trable. On account of their undetermined character they were called originally by the name of the letter which in algebraic formnlaj indicates the unknown ; and the title X-rai/s is still as well deserved as in tlie beginning. They are also called, from their discoverer, Rdntgcn rays. The degrees of perviousuess to these rays presented by ditf'erent substances vary widely. Wood offers but little obstruction to their passage, glass cuts them off. Of the tissues of the body those containing lime salts stop the rays most completely ; cartilage permits their passage with great readiness ; and the other textures stand at various points between these extremes. The result is, that if a part of the body be suital)ly placed between an ap]>aratus \vhich generates these rays and a properly sensitized plate, shadows of the intervening structures which interfere with the rays will be cast upon the plate, and fixed there with different degrees of intensity. The plate is a negative from which photographic prints can be made, and these are called skiagraphis ("shadow-writings"). That this wonderful discovery could be turned to great advantage in surgery was immediately perceived, and its usefulness in the diagnosis of fractures and dislocations, and in the detection of certain foreign botiies, especially those which are metallic, in the tissues or cavities, has been abundantly demonstrated. In order, however, to appreciate the existence and degree of the abnormal it is important to become familiar with the normal. Consequently, there are here presented skiagraphs of different portions of the body, pictures from more than one point of view being given wherever it seemed necessary to elucidate relational anatomy by this novel means. No skiagraj^h of the head is included, as it has not thus far been found practicable to determine anything useful anatomically from those Avhich have been made. In studying skiagraphs several considerations should be borne in mind, among which the following arc ])rominent : A more dense portion of a given tissue throws a deeper shadow than a less dense portion of the same. Thus, the expanded extremities of bones, largely composed of cancellated tissue, show lighter than the shafts, Avhere the tissue is compact. The thickness of the part influences the depth of the shadow. Thus, in a long bone the compact structure of the shaft gives a deeper shade at the sides than in the centre, not because the tissue is denser, but because, from a given pf)int, the ravs pass through a greater amount of it. (See the metacarpal bones in Fig. 944.)' An accumulation of tissue of the same or different kinds deepens the shadow. (See the condylar region in Fig. 943.) The overlapping of one part by another causes a deepening of the shadow. (See the head of the radius and the coronoid ]>rocess of the ulna in Fig. 943.) As cartilage gives a ready passage to the rays, the ends of bones in movable joints seem separated by unoccupied spaces, except when a convexity of one bone is received into a concavity of another of sufficient depth to produce a])parent continuity of osseous tissue ; and epiphyses, not yet united to their diaphyses, are held off from them by obvious gaps. The outline of a shadow does not necessarily represent the true size or shape of certain parts. For example, the outlines of the skiagraph of the heart, which is in constant active motion, and of the liver, ndiich is in incessant passive motion, include greater areas than do the real shadows at any one moment of time. When such parts can be skiagraphed instantaneously, this objection will be removed.