THE NERVES. 626 MIDDLE CUTANEOUS inner side of the leg, and, descending in front of the internal malleolus, ends on the inner side of the ball of the great toe. Its patellar branch is given otf as it leaves Hunter's canal. It perforates the sartorius and supplies the skin on the inner side of the knee- joint, joining the plexus jiatellse. 6. The Obturator Nerve. The obturator nerve (Figs. 672, 673, 675, 677) arises from the second, third, and fourth lum- bar nerves. It descends on the inner side of the jisoas muscle to the jielvic brim, and then between the peritoneum and pelvic fascia to the obturator foramen, which it pierces where the membrane is deficient, the obturator artery lying below it. In the obturator foramen it divides into an ante- rior and a ])osterior branch. (o) The anterior branch passes in front of the obturator externus and adductor brevis, and behind the pectineus and adductor longus. It supplies the hip-joint, the ad- ductor longus and brevis, the gracilis, and occasionally the pectineus, and terminates by be- coming cutaneous to the inner side of the thigh, and joining the subsartorial plexus. {h) The posterior branch pierces the fibres of the obturator externus, and descends on the adductor magnus and behind the adductor brevis. It supplies the hip-joint, oi)turator externus, and adductor magnus, and terminates in a long slender fibre, which enters the popliteal space on the inner side of or behind the femoral artery, and, after giving a twig to accomj^any the superior inter- nal articular artery, ends by piercing the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. CUTANEOUS ^ BRANCHES /■ OF peroneal) LONG SAPHE- NOUS VEIN ANTERIOR TIBIAL COLLATERAL BRANCHES TO TOES tut.) Fig. 674.—Superficial nerves of the front of the leg. (Tes- 7. The Accessory Obturator Nerve. The accessory obturator nerve is a small inconstant branch, derived from the obturator or from the same lumbar nerves. It crosses the ascending ramus of the OS pubis under the pectineus, and supplies that muscle and the hip-joint, forming a loop Avith the anterior branch of the obturator. The Plexus Patellae.—The external, middle, and internal cutaneous nerves and