THE REGIOX OF THE THIRD VENTRICLE. 537 NE OF IN- CAPSULE The Internal Capsule. A horizontal section through tlie lenticular nucleus at any but its lowest levels displays this great ganglion sui'rounded by a thick layer of white substance. The ])ortion of this enclosing material on the mesial side is the internal capsule, and that between the nucleus and the claustrum is the external capsule. The internal capsule (Figs. 577, 586, 578, 592), as seen in horizontal section, following the mesial surfaces of the lenticular nucleus, forms a bend with its con- vexity toward the middle line. The part at the angle is the genu ; that in front of it is the anterior segment ; and that behind is the ^wsterior segment. The anterior segment separates the lenticular nucleus from the caudate ; the posterior divides it from the thalamus ; and the genu comes up to the taenia semicircularis, pushing in between the caudate nucleus and the thalamus. The internal capsule is largely composed of fibres which run between the cortex of the hemisphere above and the crura cerebri below. But it has ingredients Avhich con- nect these ])SiYifi only indirectly. Some fibres enter it from the end, Avhich do not leave it, but plunge into the surrounding ganglia—the tlialamus, the caudate and lenticular nuclei. Others enter at its sides from the same gray masses, and emerge from the end. Certain fibres come to it from the subthalamic region, and still others from the hemis])here of the opposite side through the callosum. The general drift of its direction, however, is between the lowest and the highest centres of the cerebro-spinal axis—from below upward and outward. Tracing the fibres upward we find that, immediately on emerging from the capsule, they spread out in every direction toward the cortex, constituting the corona radiata (" the radiant crown "j. The anterior segment is chiefly composed of fibres coursing longitudinally between the thalamus and the cortex of the frontal lobe. The hind portion of the posterior segment is a continuation of the lemniscus, and the remaining por- tions are connected with the region of the cortex about the central (Rolaudic) fissure. At various places, particularly in its anterior part, the internal capsule is streaked \\ \t\\ cords of gray, which cross it between the caudate and lenticular nuclei. The External Capsule (Fig. 577), which is situated between the lenticular nucleus and the claustrum, is united to the internal capsule below and behind. It is composed of fibres contributed partly by the anterior commissure, and partly by the suljthalamic region. Diagrammatic Description of the Lowest Parts of the Brain.—Before entering upon the detailed study of the remaining structures of the brain, which are related to one another in a very intimate and complex manner, it is well to con- sider them in a schematic way, by which the principal features of their gross anatomy shall be presented clearly and form the groundwork for the more minute consideration of the subject (Fig. 593). This, in part, has been done on a pre- vious page, but may jirofitably be reviewed at this stage. The cerebral hemispheres and the jjarts in the region of the third ventricle, already described, are developed from the first and second encephalic vesicles. From the third vesicle is developed the mesencephalon, from the fourth the pons and cerebellum, and from the fifth the oblonirata. Fig. 592.—Diagram of the composition of the internal capsule. (Testut.)