EMBRYOLOGY. 78 zoa, but, as their name indicates, serve for the support of the germ-cells, and probably assist in their nutrition. The spermatozoa are the result of modification of the spermatids. Each of these latter is at first a round cell with a rather large nucleus, near which lies the eentrosome. Gradually this cell elongates, the nucleus takes up a position near one extremity, an axial filament develops in the cell-body, the eentrosome comes to lie behind tlie nucleus, and, as the final result, there is produced the mature spermatozoon, a body measuring in length about i^-Ly inch, and consisting of {(i) a pyriform head conijiosed of the nucleus of the original spermatid, surrounded by an exceedingly thin layer of jjrotoplasm ; (6) of a " middle piece," immediately behind the head, and representing probal)ly the eentrosome of the spermatid; {e) of the tail, derived from the cell-body of the spermatid, and composed of an axial filament surrounded by a sheath of ])rotoplasm, somewhat variable in form, though usually simply cylindrical; and ((/) of a terminal filament, which is the end portion of the axial iilament. Oogenesis. The ovum, as it exists in the ovary, corresponds to the primary spermatocyte of the male, and must undergo certain changes ere it is ready for union with the spermatozoon.' When ready to burst from the Graafian follicle, the liuman ovum (Fig. 86) is a spherical cell about diameter, enclosed within a meral)rane, the zona radiuta, and containing a large nucleus, situated somewhat excen- trically, while centrally there are a number of granides of food- yolk, a substance much more abundant in the ova of other mammals, such as the cat, and which forms the greater mass of the ovum of birds and reptiles. The maturation phenomena (Fig. 87) by a series of divisions con- vert the ovum into a structure homologous with a spermatid. At the first division (^1, B, C) the oocyte, as the ovum at this stage may be termed, divides into two cells, one of which is, liowever, very small and is termed a polar globule, while the other is practically as large as the original oocyte. By a second division {D, E) a second polar globule is formed, and the nucleus then passes into the resting stage and moves toward the centre of the ovum {F). There are thus two maturation divisions, just as there are two divisions of the spermatocytes in spermatttgenesis ; and the polar globules are to be regaitled as abortive ova, M'hich take no further part in development, but degenerate. After the extrusion of the polar globules the ovum is ready for union with the spermatozoon—a process which occui's probably, as a rule, in the upper part of the Fallopian tube. A spermatozoon penetrating the zona radiata is received into the substance of the ovum, and gradually passes centrally toward the ovum-nu- cleus. The tail of the spermatozoon is sooner or later absorbed ; but the liead— which, it will be remembered, rejjresents the nucleus f)f the spermatid—and tlie middle piece pass on to come into close ajiposition, and finally to fuse, with the oviun-nucleus, the compound nucleus so produced soon becoming converted into a division spindle which inaugurates the segmentation of the ovum. ' Neither tliese eliaiifces nor the phenomena of fertilization have yet been observed in the human ovum. Tliey have been observed, however, repeatedly in the ova of many of the lower animals, both vertebrate and invertebrate, and their general similarity in all cases makes the jtrobability that they occur also in the human ovum almost a certainty. Fig. 86.-Ovum. (Waldeyer.)