186 THE BONES. above, where it rests upon the nasal process of the frontal. Below it forms part of the roof of the nose, and presents a longitudinal groove for the nasal nerve. This groove ends in a small notch near the inner end of the thin lower border, which attaches the lateral nasal cartilage. The short, thick upper border articulates with the nasal notch of the frontal. The long outer border articulates with the nasal process of the maxilla. The inner border, thicker above, meets that of its fellow, with which it is prolonged backward into a median crest, wliich from above downward rests uj)on the nasal spine of the frontal, the vertical plate of the ethmoid, and the septal cartilage of the nose. ^^^FiG. 209. — Nasal Ossification proceeds from a single centre in membrane before. (Testut.) overlyiug Cartilage, which is absorbed. At birth the bone is relatively broad. The shape of the nose depends largely upon that of these bones. THE LACHRYMAL BONE. The lachri/mal bone (os imr/im), " nail-l)one " (Figs. 210, 211), is a thin quadri- lateral scale of bone forming the front of the inner wall of the orbit. Its external or orbital surface presents a larger, flat hind or orbital part, and a smaller grooved fore part, forming the lachrymcd sidcus or groove for the lachrymal sac. These por- tions are separated by a sharp vertical ridge, the lachrymal crest, which is prolonged forward at its lower end into the hamulus, which often articulates with the lachrymal tubercle of the maxilla, and bounds the orifice of the lachrymal canal externally. Fig. 210.—Right lachrymal Fig. 211.—Right lachrymal bone, outer surface. (Testut.) bone, inner surface, (fe.stut.) The interned surface closes some of the front ethmoidal cells above, and below looks into the middle meatus of the nose. The anterior border articulates with the nasal process of the maxilla, the superior with the internal angular process of the frontal, and the posterior with the orbital plate of the ethmoid. The inferior boi'der behind the crest joins the orbital plate of the maxilla, and in front it is prolonged downwai'd as the descending or turbinal jyrocess, which joins the lachry- mal process of the inferior turbinate bone to complete the lachrymal canal. The lachrymal ossifies from a single centre in membrane, and is a diminishing element. THE MALAR BONE. The quadrangular malar bone (Figs. 212, 213) forms the prominence of the cheek and helps to separate the orbit from the temporal fossa. The older surface is convex, and presents near its centre the orifice of the malar canal. The concave inner surface looks into the temporal fossa above, the zygomatic fossa below, and articulates in front by a rough triangular surface with the malar process of the maxilla. The four angles are directed vertically and horizontally. The ])rominent, serrated upper angle or//'0?ifa^j3rocftss articulates with the external angular process of the frontal, and the 2^osterior angle or zygomatic process is bevelled alcove, and articulates with the end of the zygoma. The sinuous temporal border between these two angles is continuous with the upjier edge of the zygoma below and the tem-i