238 THE A RTICULA TIONS. the anterior and posterior superior tihio-fihular ligaments. The capsule is not infrequently imperfect above and behind, where the synovial cavity of this joint may communicate with that of the knee through the medium of the bursa beneath the po])liteus tendon. B. The Interosseous Membrane extends between the outer border of the tibia and the interosseous border of the fibula as a firm aponeurotic niendtrane, -w hose fibres descend for the most part frf»m the tibia to the filnda, with a few in the opposite direction. It is separated from the superior tibio-fibular joint by an oval opening through which the anterior tibial vessels pass, and below it is con- tinuous with the inferior interosseous ligament, being perforated by the anterior peroneal vessels. It serves mainly for muscular attachment. C. The Inferior Tibio-fibular Articulation (Fig. 256).—The rough triangular surfaces on ])Oth bones, formed by the bifurcation of their interosseous borders, ai'e fii'mly united by the short, sti'ong, obliquely transverse fibres of the inferior interosseous ligament, to within one-fourth an inch of the facets for the astragalus, where two narrow articular facets, continuous with those for the astragalus, are in contact. The union is strengthened in front and behind by the anterior and posterior inferior tibio-fihular ligaments, flat bands wdiich extend across the joint from the lower end of the tibia obliquely outward and downward to the lower end of the fibula. The transverse ligament is a thick, strong band, below the posterior liga- ment, which extends from the posterior border of the lower articular surface Fig. 256.—Tibio-tarsal and calcaneo-astragaloid articulations, in coronal section. The synovial sacs are distended. (Testut.) of the tibia outward, downward, and a little forward to the inner sui'face of the external malleolus, in and above the fossa. Tlie synovial membrane, continuous with that of the ankle, extends up between the bones as far as the inferior inter- osseous ligament. The movements in these joints consist in a slight yielding or vertical sliding, which is allowed by the obliquity of the ligaments. The upward sliding of the fibula is accompanied by a slight widening of the tibio-fibular mortice, which occurs in flexion of the ankle. The inferior interosseous ligament is put to a great strain in the injuries producing " Pott's fracture."