243 THE TARSAL JOINTS. front of the medio-tarsal joint, are limited to a slight gliding, due to the weight of the body rather than to mnscidar action, whereby the transverse arch of the foot is either flattened or deepened, thns increasing the elasticity and pliancy of the tarsus. 6. Tarso-metatarsal and Intermetatarsal Articulations. The front surfaces of the three cuneiform bones and of the ciil:>oid articulate with the proximal facets of the five metatarsals along a line (Hey's line) made irregular by the forward projection of the internal and external cuneiform bones. The first, second, and third metatarsals articulate with the internal middle and external cuneiform bones respectively, the fourth and fifth with the cuboid. The second metatarsal is wedged in between the internal and external cuneiforms, and the fourth usually articulates with the external cuneiform laterally. The surfaces are held together by dorsal, plantar, and interosseous ligaments. The dorsal ligaments are flat, thin bands which pass forward from the tarsal to the metatarsal bones. The first metatarsal bone receives one from the internal cuneiform ; the Fig. 259.—The plantar ligaments. (Testut.) second, one from each cuneiform ; the third, one from the external cuneiform ; the fourth, one from the external cuneiform and one from the cuboid; the fifth, one from the cuboid. The j)lania,r ligaments are more irregular, and are strengthened by the expansions of the tibialis posterior and jDeroneus longus ten- dons and the long plantar ligament. A strong plantar band connects the internal cuneiform with the fii'st metatarsal, and another with the second and third meta- tarsal bones. Other slender plantar bands connect the metatarsal with their corresponding tarsal bones. The interosseous ligaments, three in nmiiber, divide the synovial cavities of the tarso-metatarsal and intermetatarsal joints into three distinct parts, and oifer resistance to disarticulation at this joint: (1) A strong interosseous ligament passes from the outer surface of the internal cuneiform to the contiguous non- articular portion of the inner surfiice of the second metatarsal, and shuts off the synovial cavity of the first tarso-metatarsal joint from that of the second and