646 THE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. the olive (olivary body, inferior olive), whose presence crowds the column back- ward, and compresses it into a small band. The olive and lateral column are separated from the ventral pyramid by the ventro-lateral fissure, and from the dorsal structure of the oblongata by the dorso-lateral fissure, in which is seen a series of root-bundles, ranged in line with the dorsal roots of the spinal nerves. The dorsal surface (Fig. 605) of the oblongata is wide above and narrow below, and may well be described as consisting of upper and lower halves. The upper half presents at each side a column of white nervous material, the restis, or restifonn (" rope-like ") body—another name for the inferior cerebellar peduncle —which is prolonged downward into the fasciculus cuneatus, the last being con- tinuous with the dorso-lateral column (tract of Burdach) of the cord. The two restes are widel}* separated above, but converge toward the middle line below. On DORSO-INTERMEDIATE FISSURE FISSURE Fig. 605.—Fourth ventricle laid open by removal of its roof. (Testut.) the mesial side of the restis is a band, which from a thin beginning, thickens as it passes downward, and becomes continuous with the fasciculus gracilis, which is prolonged into the dorso-mesial column of the cord (tract of Goll), separated from its fellow of the opposite side by the dorso-median fissure. It is called the dorsal pyramid (posterior pyramid). The restis and dorsal pyramid of each side together form a prominent ridge, and the two ridges by their convergence enclose a triangular space. Stretched across this space is a membrane, consisting of a ventral layer of endyma and a dorsal layer of pia. This is one of the places where the nervous tissue of the encephalic wall has completely disappeared, and has left its serous lining and vascular covering, which have come together, and formed a membrane, here called the posterior medidlary velum, or metatela. From its ventral surface depend small clumps of blood-vessels, covered, of course, by endyma, and named the choroid plexuses of the fourth ventricle. Below its middle is a perforation—the