THE SCAPULA. 133 and bevelled inferiorly, which articulates with the acromion process of the scapula. Its upper surface is on a little higher level than that of the acromion. TJie clavicle has no medullary cavity, but is composed of cancellous tissue with a shell of compact bone. It is more or less subcutaneous throughout, but especially so in the intermuscular interval near its centre. Fracture is very common, especially at the junction of its two curvatures (inner two-thirds and outer one-third). The clavicle is longer, stronger, I'ougher, and more curved in the male than in the female, and on the right side than on the left. In the male it also inclines slightly upward as it passes outward. Ossification.—The clavicle is the first bone to ossify. It begins in membrane, but quickly extends into the underlying cartilage of the precoracoid bar. An epiphysis, apjjearing at the sternal end between the eighteenth and twentieth years, is united to the shaft al)out the twenty-fifth year. FOR CLAVICLE SUPERIOR ANGLE -1 'SCAPULAR FOSSA THE SCAPULA. The 8capula (Figs. 157, 158) is a large, flat, triangular bone, forming the dorsal part of the shoulder-girdle. It rests upon the upper and back part of the thorax, and from it is susjjended the humerus. Its surfaces are ventral and articular facet dorsal; its borders superior, internal, and external ; and from its external angle or head, which bears an articular surface, projects the coracoid process. The spine, prolonged into the acromion process, projects from its dorsal surface. The ventral surface, or venter, pre- sents the subscapular fossa, a deep con- cavity most marked above. From the inner two-thirds of this, which is marked by three or four oblique ridges, the subscapularis muscle arises. This fossa is separated from the internal border by a linear area, which, with its two triangular expansions opposite the upper and lower angles, attaches the serratus magnus muscle. Externally, the fossa is limited by a smooth, ])romi- nent ridge descending from the head of the bone. From the narrow groove between this ridge and the external border arise some fibres of the sub- icapularis. The convex dorsal surface or dorsum is unequally divided by a prominent ridge, the spine, into an upper smaller supraspinous fossa, and 1 lower larger infraspinous fossa, giving origin to the snpraspinatus and infra- spinatus muscles, respectively. The two fossae communicate around the outer oorder of the spine by means of the greed scapular notch, which corresponds to the leck of the bone, and transmits the suprascapular nerve and vessels from one fossa 0 the other. An oblique ridge nmning from below the glenoid fossa to the verte- )ral border just above the inferior angle separates the infraspinous fossa from the ixternal border by a narrow space, which attaches the teres minor muscle above md the teres major on the broader j>ortion below. The massive triangular spine of the scapula commences about the upper fourth 1 the vertebral border as a smooth, exjianded, triangular surface, covered by a •ursa over which the lower part of the trapezius glides to be inserted into a Fig. 157.—The right scapula, ventral view. (Testut.)