781 THE KIDNEYS. ' from "), which emerges beside tlie afferent. It is proljably an artery, although it is often spoken of as a vein. It breaks up into a close capillary plexus, which surrounds the secreting tubes in the cortex. From this network come venous radicles, which empty into minute veins, the interlobular, accompanying the inter- lobular arteries. These veins terminate in venous nrcJiefi between the cortex and medulla, and thence leave the lobe by the track taken by the artery in entering. The lowest efferent vessels give pencils of capillaries to the tubes in the medulla. The branches from the under side of the arterial arches, always accompanied bv corresponding i-adicles of the venous arches, lie between the tubes of the pyra- mid in regular parallel groups, producing the darker lines in the alternating .series of stripes of the boundary zone. These vessels are named vnsa recta. On their wav to the papilla the arterioles give capillaries to the tubes, and at the papilla these end in venous radicles, which run straight up to the suprapyramidal venous arches. The vessels in the cortex, which run vertically to the vascular arches, mark the limits of the primary lobules of the labyrinth, and hence are called " interlobular.^^ A transverse section of the cortex shows the lobulation, each lobule having a cir- cular bundle of tubes, the medullary ray in its centre, and a tangled mass of tubes around it. At the apex of the papilla the uriniferous tubes end as the excretory tubes (ducts of Bellini) in from ten to eighty openings, called foramina papillaria, producing the ap)iearance of the nozzle of a watering-pot, through which the urine constantly trickles. As it escapes it is received into the upper end of the excretory duet of the lobe, which is here expanded and resembles a cup, from which it is named the calyx. The rim of the calyx is attached around the base of the |)a])illa. The surface of the papilla is covered with mucous membrane, which is continuous with that lining the calyx and the rest of the excretory duct. Framework of the Kidney.—The capsule which covers the lobe is a condensed areolar tissue, which is continuous with that clothing the calyx, and immediately beneath it is a delicate stratum of unstriped muscular tissue. Quite a bundle of this last material surrounds the pyramid just above the attachment of the calyx. The tubes and vessels are supported by interstitial connective tissue, which is small in amount, except around the Malpighian bodies and in the pajiillary region. It is condensed at the surface, where it is intimately connected with the true capsule. Coalescence of the Lobes (Fig. 848).—-There are from eight to twenty lobes in a kidney, and each of them answers to the foregoing description. Beginning as separate jjarts, they afterward coalesce at their adjacent surfaces, and the fusion is so perfect that the included portions of the tunic disappear, and the lines of con- tact cannot be traced. The apices of the lobes converge, and the papillfe project into a centi'al cavity, the sinus. A section of the kidney after the union of its lobes shows that the pyramids are separated by masses of cortical substance, the columns of Berlin, and that there is more of this between the pyramids than there is elsewhere. The incongruity of calling that ]) irt of an organ its bark, which is mostly not on the outside, is not dissipated until one learns that the name " cor- tex " is applied ]irimarily to the outer layer of renal substance in the individual lobes—a use of the term eminently descriptive in the circumstances—and it is not abandoned when the lobes are fused. The part of the cortex, whose title to the name in the compound kidney no one would think of disputing, presents in verti- cal section the appearance of curving across the base of each pyramid from one column to another, whence the name cortical arches. The coalescence of the lobes often goes so far that the aj)ices of two pyramids become fused into one, their bases continuing separate ; so that in a kidney with fourteen pyramids there may be only ten papillfe. Gross Features of the Kidney (Figs. 849, 850).—The kidney (in Latin rev, from which comes the adjective " renal"), made up of lobes as just described, is somewhat bean-shaped, presenting a convex front surface, and a flattened back