THE LYMPHATIC SYSTE3I. 492 DEEP CERVICAL NODE PROPER AXILLARY NODES EPICONDYLAR NODE The Parotid Nodes are situated in the region of the ear, some being superficial to the great salivary gland, and others being deep in its substance. They derive their lymph from the outer sui'face of the cheek, the outer half of the lids, the brow, the parietal and temporal regions, all of the parts within the brain-case, and the post-pharyngeal nodes. They send tlie lym])h to the upper deep cervical nodes. (Wal- sham says that their efferents terminate in the submaxillary and superficial cervical.) The Post-pharyngeal Nodes are placed bcliind the uppermost part of the pharynx. Their lymph comes from the hind part of the nasal cavity, the roof of the pharynx, and the preverte- bral muscles, and goes to the parotid nodes. The Internal Maxillary Nodes are situated at the side of the anterior part of the pharynx. Its afferents bring lymph from the orbit, the greater part of the nasal cavity, the upper jaw, the roof of the mouth, the soft pal- ate, the deep surface of the cheek, and the largest portion of the pharynx ; and its eiferents carry the lymph to the ujiper deep cervical. The Lingual Nodes, located on the side of the tongue, get their lymph from the back part of that organ, and empty it into the upper deep cervical nodes. THE NODES OF THE UPPER LIMB and their Tributary Vessels. The Axillary Nodes (Figs. 520, 521) comprise four tolerably distinct grou])s: the axillary proper, arranged around the great vessels of the armpit ; the pectoral, in the course of the long thoracic artery ; the sub- FiG. 520.—The nodes and vessels of the upper limb. (Testut.) Scapular, aloug the Subscapular artery ; and the subclavian, on the costo-coracoid membrane, between the deltoid and greater pectoral muscles. There exists a free communication not only between the nodes of each set, but between the different groups ; so that infection of any one may extend to all of the others. The eflFerents of all of tliese groups discharge into the thoracic duct or the right lympliatic duct. The proper axillary nodes collect the Ij'mph from the epicondylar node, the entire arm, except the surface of the outer side, and all of the forearm and hand, except a portion of the surface which drains into the epicondylar node. — PALMAR PLEXUS