114 THE BONES. in membrane or, in the majority of cases, in cartilage covered by membrane, so that all are possessed of membranes, and ossification beneath membrane is found in all, and exclusively in some.^ One or more original or primary centres appear for each bone, from which ossification proceeds, forming the diajj/ii/sis (" between- growth ") or body. After a varying time one or several nrvondary or tertiary centres may appear, which form the epiphyses (" upon-growth "), united to the dia- physis for some time by cartilage. Some of these form the extremities of long bones, others projecting processes like the acromion of the scapula or the tro- chanters of the feraur.^ Bone formed in cartilage is not adapted to be permanent, for the cartilage is non-vascular, and, further, it is not true l)one, but a mere calcification. It is therefore resorbed and replaced by vascular bone from an ossific centre beneath the membrane. In the long bones the first or pi-imary centre in the shaft appears before birth.^ Later, one or more secondary centres appear at either end, all but three* after birth. The bone-centres in the shaft and extremities of long bones are separated from one another by a layer of cartilage (epiphyseal cartilage), which continues to grow at the same time that the bone-centres on either side grow into it. By this means the bone is enabled to grow in length until first one, and, when growth is completed, finally both, cartilages cease to grow, and the shaft and extremities unite by ossification of the intervening layer of cartilage. Such bones grow in diameter by the deposit of bone beneath the periosteum. Bones in which ossification is begun and completed in membrane, as in the vault of the skull, are enabled to increase in size by the growth of the membrane in the sutures separating them, until they have attained their full size, when this growth stops. Until the epiphyseal cartilage has ossified separation without bony fracture may occur here. The date of this ossification is therefore of importance in some cases. The bony union of shaft and extremities takes place according to the fol- lowing rules : 1. The extremity whose ossific centre is the first to appear is the last to unite with the shaft. Exception : the lower end of the fibula, but the upper end is vestigial. 2. The extremity toward which runs the nutrient artery is the first to unite. 3. The nutrient arteries run toward the elbow and away from the knee— i. e., down hill—if elbow and knee both be flexed. 4. Union of the epiphyses and diaphyses of long bones occurs from the six- teenth to the twenty-second year (occasionally twenty-fifth year, tibia), andi earlier in the upper than in the lower extremity. 5. When two or more centres of ossification occur in an epiphysis, these unite' together before the epiphysis unites with the diaphysis or shaft. Many bones of the skull are composite, or made up of two or more elements,il separate in their embryonic development, in young bones, and in the skulls of other vertebrates. Tiie study of these details and the comparison of the human anatomy with* that of other vertebrates, on the basis of their development, constitute the study of morphology, in which the most recent and interesting advances in anatom} have been made. Descriptions of Bones.—The student of osteology shoidd always have the actua bones in his hand as he follows their descriptions, remembering that the lattei represent the average of bones, and that it is very rare to meet with a bone ii which every detail corresponds to the descrijition. 1 Ossification commencing in membrane may invade and replace cartilage, as in the clavicle. ^ Prominent jirojections not developed from indeyiendent centres are called apophj'ses. ^ Many primary centres of ossification appear after birtli, as in the carpal bones. ^ The adjoining ends of the femnr and tibia, and sometimes the head of the humerus. '