680 THE NERVES. Of these the r/zvof supcrfcinl petrosal nerve enters the cranium through the carti- lage which closes the foramen lacerum medium by the outer side of the internal carotid artery, and, passing backward and outward in a groove on the ])etrous bone under the Gasserian ganglion, enters the hiatus Fallopii to join the genicu- late ganglion of the facial nerve. It receives a twig from the tymjtanic branch of the glossopharyngeal. The great deep peti-oml nerve, which joins this to form the Vidian nerve just outside the Vidian canal, can be traced to the plexus of the sympathetic on the internal carotid artery. Some works describe this as the carotid branch of the Vidian, and give the name of great deep petrosal to the twig fi'om the glossopharyngeal which joins the great superficial petrosah he braiiehes of elisfributioii of 3IcckePs gaiajlion are grouped as ascending, internal, descending, and posterior. (a) Ascending Branches.—These are the orbital branches, two or three exceed- ingly minute twigs whicli pass through the sphenomaxillary fissure to the perios- teum of the orbit, and the mucous membrane of the posterior ethmoidal and sphenoidal sinuses. (6) Internal branches are partly derived from the ganglion ; but are largely traceable over its inner surface into the sensory roots. They are svperior nasal and nasopKikdine. The superior nascd nerves are several small twigs which enter the nose through the sphenopalatine foramen, to sujiply the mucous membrane over the upper and back ])art of the superior and middle turbinated bones and septum, as well as the posterior ethmoidal cells. The neisopalcdine nerve (Fig. 628) passes to the nasal septum, also through the sphenopalatine foramen. It runs downward and forward in a groove on the vomer between the periosteum and mucous membrane, contributing some small scj^tal branches and communicating with the nasal branch of the anterior superior dental nerve. The two nasopalatine nerves, one on each side of the nasal septum, thus reach the median segments of the anterior palatine canal (foramina of Scarpa), through which they pass to the roof of the mouth, the left nerve occupying the anterior foramen. In the lower part of the anterior palatine canal they unite in a plexiform net- work, and are then distributed to the mucous membrane behind the incisor teeth, conmiunicating with the anterior palatine nerve. (c) Descending Branches (Fig. 629).—These are the three palatine nerves, ante- rior or great, posterior or small, and exti'rnal. They are frequently given ofi' as one trunk. The great or anterior pcdcdine nerve, springing from the lower angle of Meckel's ganglion, descends in the posterior palatine canal, and runs forward, in grooves, on the hard palate, supplying the gums and roof of the mouth, and communicating with the nasopalatine nerve. It contributes inferior naml branches to the back part of the inferior turbinated bone and middle and inferior meatus. The S7ncdl or pxjsterior palatine verve descends in one of the accessory palatine canals to the tonsil, uvula, and soft palate, and through it motor fibres j)ossibly pass from the fixcial nerve to the levator palati and azygos uvulw, though the pars accessoria ad vagum is now regarded as supplying these muscles. The external pedatine nerve occupies another accessory palatine canal, in which it descends to the soft palate and tonsil. It is occasionally absent. ((/) Posterior Branches.—The twigs supplied by the Vidian in the Vidian canal to the up])ei' ])art of the nose arc derived from the sphenopalatine roots of the ganglion, and only accompany the Vidian nerve. The phariingeed brancli. springs from the ganglion beside the Vidian, with which it may l)e incorporated. It runs l)ackward in the pterygopalatine canal with the vessel of that name to the posterior nares and nasojiharynx, Fustachian tube, and sphenoidal sinuses. The Third, Inferior Maxillary, or Mandibular Division of the Fifth Nerve (Fig. 642).—The mandibtdar division of the fifth nerve is larger than either of the