538 THE CEUEBTiO-SPINAL AXIS. The mcficncepJutlo)) is often eallt'd the istlimns of the brain, because it is the narrow neck by which the great cerebral mass above is connected with the struct- ures below. Its ventral part is shaped like two pillars converging to the pons, and is called the crura cerebri ; its dorsal protrudes in four tubercles, the corpora quadrigemina. Its cavity is the aqueduct. The cerebellum is a large, solid body, the second of the lirain-masses in size, and constitutes the dorsal portion of tiie wall of thi' fourth ventricle. It is con- nected above by the superior cerebellar peduncles with the ([uadrigemina ; in front by the middle cerebellar peduncles with the pons ; and below by the inferior cerebellar peduncles with the oblongata. The jjoji.s is situated between the isthmus above and the oblon- gata below, and forms the ventral ]iart of the wall of the fourth ventricle. It bulges in front and laterally, and runs back on each side into the middle cerebellar peduncle. Between the dorsal surface of the pons and the ven- tral surface of the cerebellinn is the upper half of the fourth ven- FiG. 593.—Diagram of thf parts of tlie enceplialon below , • i the thalami, left side. iriCle. Below the pons is the oblon- f/atd, developed from the fifth vesicle. It is shaped like an irregular, inverted, truncated cone. Below it is continuous with the spinal cord. The upper part of its cavity is the lower part of the fourth ventricle jn-oper, and the rest of it is tubular ami directly continuous with the central canal of the spinal cord. The columns of fibrous nervous tissue are chiefiy continued ujiward from the spinal cord through the oblongata, the pons, and tlie isthnuis, to the higher levels of the brain ; but some of them switch otf dor.-;ally to the cerebellum, thus con- stituting the inferior peduncle of that body. The gray nervous tissue, also, is continued upward from the cord, and a portion of it is thus connected with the highest collections of gray matter in the cei'ebrum ; but in the oblongata con- siderable masses are detached by the intrusion and crossing from one side to the other of large bundles of white nervous tissue, and at various points are found new collections of nerve-cells, which are not the representatives of any nuclei at lower levels. THE MESENCEPHALON: The Region of the Aqueduct. Next below the tlialaniencephalon comes the mesencephalon, otherwise known as the mid-bmin, from its situation, and as the isthmus cerebri, l)ecause it is the constricted bond of union between the parts which result from the develo]iment of the first and second encephalic vesicles and those which come from the fourth and fifth. Its direction is from before backward and a little downward. Viewed from below it displays a ventral sur&ce, which is marked by two short, thick, white columns, converging toward the pons, like the limbs of the letter V, ^md called the crura cerebri (" legs of the brain "), and also the cerebral peduncles ("little feet") (Fig. 596). Between the crura is a triangular area, already described as the hind part of the interpeduncular sjiace (see page 534). The dorsal surface is not visible until certain overlying structures have been removed. It then presents to view four prominent knobs, the corpora (jaadrif/emina (" four-twin bodies"), and the upper portion of the superior cerebellar peduncles (Fig. 597). The (pi-adrigemina are arranged in pairs, an upper (anterior) j^air, ^QUADRIGEMINA .SUPERIOR PEDUNCLE developed from third encephalic VESICLE DEVELOPED FROM FIFTH ENCEPHALIC VESICLE INFERIOR PEDUNCLE