THE EAR. 669 HATfC CANAL Fig. 715.—Jlembranons labyrinth of the right car, viewed from the outer side. (Testut.) membrane, act as mechanical supports for the hair-cells. AnuMig the cells are twined many ultimate filaments of the auditory nerve. On the free surface of the macula is a plate of gelatinous material con- taining a vast number of crystals of carbonate of lime, called otoliths ("ear-stones"). These, being driven by the waves of endolymph forcibly against the projecting hairlets, produce a much more IH'ofound impression than would the waves, if their impact was not thus accentuated. The Semicircular Canals.— From the utricle the three semi- circular canals are given off. They are named from their position the superior, the posterior, and the ex- ierneil. The superior and posterior extend upward and backward, but the planes of their curves are nearly at right angles to one another ; the external passes horizontally outward. Each of these canals is dilated at one end into an nmpulla (" a wine-jug"). At the other end the superior and posterior unite before reaching the utricle, and enter it by a common opening. Thus, there are but five apertures in the utricle for the three semicircular canals. In each ampulla is a marked ridge, the septum trcmsversuvi, due to a thickening of the wall, and this is surmounted by the eristet amstica (" auditory crest"), made up of peculiar neuro-epithelial cells (Fig. 716). From the top of the uppermost of each of these cells projects a very long, rigid, hairlike process, the series of them spreading out widely like an opened fan, and reaching half-way or more to the opposite side of the ampulla. Below these hair-cells are sustentcieuletr cells, which support them on every side ; and between the cells of both kinds are fila- ments of the auditory nerve, which, though in contact with the cells, have no con- tinuity of tissue with them. The Saccule.—The saccule is much smaller than the utricle, and is situated farther forward and a little lower, but very close to it. It has a macula acustica, which is so like that of the utricle that it needs no separate description. A minute tube, the canalis ufrieulo-saccularis, is prolonged from the utricle, and a mate to it is given off from the saccule. The two unite and form the ductus endolymphaticus, a long tube, which ends in a bulbous expansion, the saccus endoh/mphaticus. Thus, though the utricle and saccule do not communicate directly, their cavities are connected by means of these ducts. From the saccule another tube gives a communication with the canal of the cochlea. The Canal of the Cochlea' (Fig. 718).—The canal of the cochlea (also called ' In describing the coclilea, it is a matter of convenience to ignore its actual attitude, and to speak as if its summit were upward, its ba.se downward ; and this plan, which is conventional, will be followed liere. Fig. 716.—Diagram of auditory oyiithelium, and the mode of termination of tlie nerves of the ampullae. (M. Schultze.)