STERNAL AR TICULA TIONS. 213 with a few accessory capsular fibres. Tlie chondro-x'ipho'ul fir/amenf is a flat band connecting the front of tlie xiphoid cartilage with that of the seventh, and often of the sixth, costal cartilage. D. The Interchondral Articulations are arthrodial joints between the cartilao'cs from the sixth to the ninth (inclusive), situated a little in front of their upward bend, where blunt processes on the lower edges come in contact with the upper margins of the cartilages below. They have a complete capsule enclosing a sijnorial .me, and reinforced by oblique fibres from the anterior intercostal fascia. E. Sternal Articulations.—The union of the manubrium and body of the sternum forms a sym]ihysis in which the connecting fibro-cartilage may cf)ntain a partial synovial cavity with a layer of cartilage above and below. The fibres of the radiating chondro-sternal ligaments and the periosteum, reinforced by longitudinal fibres in front and behind, but especially behind, strengthen the union of these two parts. The xiphoid cartilage is similarly united synar- throdially to the lower end of the body of the sternum, at a level somewhat behind that of the ventral surface of the sternum. The chondro-xiphoid ligament is an accessory ligament of this joint. The connecting cartilage mav ossify in old age. Movements of the Ribs and of the TJtorax as a Whole (Fig. 232).—In inspira- tion the thorax is enlarged in its three diameters, transverse, antero-posterior, and vertical. The increase in the vertical diameter is caused partly by the eleva- tion of the upper ribs, and the result- ing widening of the intercostal spaces, but is mainly due to the action of the diaphragm. The increase in the other two directions is due to the move- ments of the ribs, which are greatest where the ribs are longest, most ob- lique, and most curved at their angles ((. e., at the sixth, seventh, and eighth ribs opposite the bulkiest part of the lungs), and least in the short flat first and second ribs. As the ribs articulate with the vertebrse by two series of closely ap- proximated joints, the axis rotation, which is the chief movement here, must pass through both joints—e., obliquely outward, backward, and SOmewnat aownwaiCl. \\ nen tne up- and sternum in inspiration: a indicates the degree of icanl rotation of inspiration occurs, the ^Pj^movement; b. tliat of forward movement. (Tes- ventral ends of the ribs, which are inclined obliquely downward, are elevated. By thus decreasing the obliquity of the ribs the front wall of the thorax is carried upward and forward, and its cavity is enlarged sagittally. The ventral ends of the ribs cannot be elevated without straightening out the angles with the costal cartilage, which throws this end of the ribs outward, increasing the transverse diameter in front. The return of the cos- tal cartilages to the natural angle after inspiration is a principal factor in the resiliency of the thorax, to Avhich quiet expiration is due. As the axis of rotation is oblique, upward rotation also elevates the lateral part of the riljs and everts their lower borders, thus increasing the transverse diameter behind. In the first ribs the axis is more nearly transverse ; hence their motion is mostly a slight elevation and depression of their fore But as the obliquity of the axis increases from above downward, the outward movement becomes more exten- sive in the lower ribs. Owing to the plane and sloping articular surfaces on the transverse processes of the vertebrie, from the seventh to the tenth only, there is, besides rotation, a slight backward and upward motion in inspiration and