762 THE ORGANS OF RESPIRATION. nodes. This deposition of pigment makes clear the outlines cf the lobules and even of the bases of the infundibula. Blood-vessels of the Lungs.—Two sets of blood-vessels are distributed to the lung and to all of its lobules—the branches of tlie pulmonary arter;/ and those of the bronchial arteries. The latter furnish nourishing blood to the organ ; the former carry to it venous blood, which is to be aerated, that is to say, to be re- lieved of certain materials wliich are the result of tissue-waste, and to be loaded up from the air with oxygen—the most important of the articles of physiological income. The pulmonary artery (Fig. 819), by its branches, accompanies the tubes and carries the greatest part of its blood to the capillary plexus of the alveoli ; but some of it is supplied to the mucous membrane of those bronchioles which are near the infundibula—those which have air-vesicles upon them. The puhnonary veins (Fig. 820) begin bv radicles at the margin of the caj)illary network of the Fin. sjO.—I'uliuonary veins, seen in a dorsal view of the lieiirt and lungs. (Testnt.) alveoli and the minute tubes—tliat is, they take blood from the parts to which the ]iulmonary artery is distributed. The bronchial arteries follow the divisions of tlie air-tubes, and supply arterial blood to the walls of the tubes (excei)t the smallest), the coats of the large ves- sels, to wliich they are vasa rasorum, the bronchial lym])li-nodes, the jileura, the areolar tissue beneath the jdeura, and that between the lobules. Tlie bronchial veins gather the blood from all of the parts to which the bronchial artery supplies it, excepting a little, which on account of a communication of the networks on the intralobular tubes and those which form the stems of the lobules, mingles with the blood furnished by the pulmonary artery, and is, consequently, taken up by the radicles of the pulmonary vein. GROSS ANATOMY OF THE LUNGS. The hmgf< (Figs. 821-823) (Latin puhnones, from which comes " pulmonary") are two large organs, which occu]>y a great part of the chest cavity, one in each side of it, and separated from each other by the heart, the gullet, the great blood-