23 jStames and delimitattoxs of surface parts. lip" (labium mperius), and underneath it the " lower lip '' {labium inferius). Pop- ularly, the word mouth is often applied to the lips, as when a woman is said to have a pretty mouth—a comment which manifestly is not intended for the slit- like opening, and still less for the cavity behind it. (It may not be amiss to call attention to the foct that the Latin os, meaning a mouth, has oris for its genitive, and gives origin to our English oral; whereas os, meaning a bone, is ossis in the genitive, and thus stands behind our English osseous.) The upper lip extends vertically from the nose above to the free border below, and later- allv to the crease which cotirses down and out from the hind border of the Aving of the nose, and is called the geno-labial sulcus; the lower lip extends from its free edge above to a transverse crease, the mento-labial sulcus, which presents a downward concavity, and separates the lip from the chin. The middle portion of the upper lip projects farther downward than do the parts which bound it laterally, and its skin surface is marked by a somewhat tri- angular depression, the philtrum. The border of the skin of this lip describes a line which is a mark of beauty, and is called by artists the bow of Cupid. The "chin" (mentum, genium) is the central prominence which finishes the face below, in and near the mid-line. It is not distinctly separated from the cheeks. The main part of each lateral aspect of the face is the "cheek" (mala, gena), which presents a broad, quadrilateral expanse, botmded below by the inferior border of the lower jaw, behind by the vertical portion of the bone of this jaw, above by the lower margin of the orbit (the cavity lodging the eye) and by the ridge of bone running back from it, and in front above by the side of the nose, below this by the geno-labial sulcus, which separates the cheek from the upper lip. The outlines of the lower part of the face are determined largely by its framework, the inferior jaw-bone (mandibula), which, with its varioits attach- ments and coverings, constitutes the under jaw (maxilla inferior). The upper jaw-bone is the staging upon which the greater part of the central zone of the face reposes. On separation of the lips the " teeth " (dentes) are seen projecting beyond the " gums " {gingiva-) in two arches with the convexities forward ; and on depressing the lower jaw a view of the cavity of the mouth is obtained. In its floor we see the muscular " tongite " (lingua) with its rough upper surface; its roof is formed by the "hard palate" {palatum durura), and behind is the "soft palate" {palaturn nioUe) hanging like a short curtain over the base of the tongue. Between the two upright ridges to which the soft palate extends on each side is the " tonsil" {tonsilla, amygdala), and beneath the pendulous veil of the palate we can see a paii: of the rear wall of a cavity for which the laity have no name, but which we know as the phariin.v. The "neck" {cervix, collum) connects the head and the trunk (Fig. 2). In front it extends from the level of the lower jaw to the " breast-bone " {sternum) in the middle line and the " collar-bone " (clavicula) on each side. These bones can readily be felt through the overlying structures. Behind, in the middle line, the neck extends from the base of the cranium to the seventh segment of the back-bone or spine, the tip of which can be both felt and seen projecting beyond the plane of any of its fellows above. Between this segment {veiiebra 2:)rominens) and the collar-bones—that is, at the sides—there is no clear demarcation of the neck from the trunk when the upper limbs hang passively : there is usually an unbroken slope from the head to the peak of the shoulder. But if the shoulders are raised straight upward, a crease is produced which sharply indicates the boundaries of the neck for two-thirds or more of the distance, and suggests the line for the remainder. In this attitude of hunched shoulders the neck rises like a column from a depressed base. Although not exact in every respect, this technical delimitation of the neck is vastly more definite, as well as more restricted, than that which is in popular vogue concerning women arrayed in what is known as " full dress," whose necks, varying at different times according to the dictates of fashion, may find their lower limits anywhere between the collar-bones and the nipples in front, and between the vertebra prominens and