THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 842 from the internal pudics, corresponding in name to similar branches in the male. Tlie veim for the most part end in trunks, which accompany the arteries. Those of the labium majus communicate freely with the veins of the round ligament at its distal extremity, while the bulbi vestibuli communicate with the vaginal plexuses, the dorsal vein of the clitoris, the veins of the corpf)ra cavernosa, and the ol)turator veins. The lymphatics accompany the veins and empty into the superficial inguinal nodes. Nerves.—Sympathetic nerves derived from tlie pelvic or inferior hypogastric plexus accompany the arteries. In addition sjjinal branches are supplied by the genito-crural, inferior pudendal, and internal pudic. In the nympha; and glans clitoridis they end in the tactile corpuscles of Pacini and Meissner, and on the glans alone in the so-called genital corpuscles. THE MUSCLES OF THE FEMALE PERINEUM. The muscles of the female perineum (Fig. 902) are the homologues of those in the male. Fig. 902.—Muscles of the female periiieuiii. iTestut.) The sphincter ani externus and coccygeus are identical in the two sexes. The transversi perinei and ischio-cavernosi differ from their male counterparts only in being smaller. The ischio-cavernosus is more frequently called the erector cliforidis, as it sustains the same relations to the clitoris that its enlarged masculine fac-simile does to the ])enis. In the levator ani tlie anterior portion courses at the side of the vagina, and the ]mir (if muscles jirolxdily produce some constriction of the lumen of the tube. The bulbo-cavernosi are more commonly called the sphincter vagmce or com- pressor var/ince. They are smaller than in the male, and, instead of being united by a median raphe, are separated, and include in their grasp the opening of the vagina and the bulbs of the vestibule. They are inserted into the cavernous bodies of the clitoris. The constrictor urethrae, or transversus perinei profundus, is mainly composed of unstriped muscular tissue. Its origin, as in the male, is from the ischio-pubic rami. The smaller anterior portion stretches across the subpubic arch in front