THE EXCRETORY AND REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS. 101 The testes and the parts in their neighborhood undergo changes comparable to those just described for the ovaries, the principal ditference being that the Miillerian ducts degenerate except at their two extremities, the anterior ends per- sisting as a small vesicle attached to each epididymis, and known as the hydatid I of the epididipnis, while the lower ends unite together to form a small sac, which I opens into the prostatic portion of the urethra, and is termed the sinus pocularis. This latter structure from its mode of formation is evidently homologous with the uterus of the female, and has consequently been termed the uterus maseuliims. On the other hand, the Wolffian ducts persist, forming the f(/.so deferetitia, and, as in the female, the tubules of the upper portions of each Wolffian body grow inward toward the testes, with which they unite, their testicular ends forming the tubuli recti and rete testis, while the ends connected with the Wolffian ducts form the epididymis. The remainder of the Wolffian bodies undergoes almost complete degeneration, portions, however, as in the female, persisting, and forming the structures known as the vasa aberrantia of the epididymis and the paradidyniis or organ of Gircddes. FEMALE INDIFFERENT MALE Fig. 114.—Diagram of the development of the genito-urinary apparatus. (Modified from Hnxley.) The round ligament, whose contraction occasions the descent of the ovary into the pelvic cavity, since it is ])rimarily in connection with the mesonephros, has naturally a representative in the male, passing from the lower end of the mesonephros to that region of the skin where the scrotum will develop. By its contraction the descent of the testis is brought about, this organ being drawn first into the cavity of the false pelvis, and then into the inguinal region. Here, in the mean time, on each side, a downgrowth of a finger-like process of peritoneum into the scrotum by the side of the round ligament has occurred, the downgrowth being preceded by prolongations of various muscular layers of the abdominal wall. The testes, continuing their descent, follow these peritoneal downgrowths, and thus come to lie within the scrotum, the peritoneal processes wrapjiing them- selves around them and forming the tunicce vaginales, the neck by which the process communicates with the general peritoneal cavity subsequently closing by the fusion of its walls, while the remaining coverings of the testes are produced by the