470 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTE3L Tlie Cephalic Vein, the smaller of the veins of the arm, ascends in the groove external to the biceps and then in the interval between the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles to a little below the clavicle, where it perforates the costo-coracoid CEPHALIC VEIN ENTERING AXILLARY AXILLARY CEPHALIC.. VEIN BASILIC VEIN PERFORATING DEEP FASCIA ASILIC VEIN Fig. 500.—Superficial veins of front of arm and shoulder. (Testut.) membrane, and ends in the axillary vein, after crossing the first portion of the axillary artery. Sometimes a branch, and rarely the entire vein, crosses over the clavicle to end in the external jugular vein. The Deep Veins of the Upper Extremity. The arteries below the axillary are accompanied by two veme comifes ("com- panion veins ") with frequent cross-branclies. They communicate with the super- ficial veins, especially in the hand and at the elbow. Xear the lower border of the teres major or the subscapularis muscle, the inner brachial vena comes joins the basilic vein to form the single Axillary Vein. This accompanies and has the same relations as the axillary artery, lying to its inner side, and ends at the outer liorder of the first rib in the subclavian vein. It collects all the blood of the up[)er extremity, receiving the cephalic vein and the radicles which correspond to the branches of the axillary artery. The Subclavian Vein continues the axillary vein from the outer border of the first rib to the sterno-clavicular articulation, where it ends in the brachio-cephalic vein. It lies in front of and at a somewhat lower level than the subclavian artery, from wliich it is separated by the scalenus anterior muscle and the phrenic nerve. It lies in the groove on the first rib in front of that of the artery. Close to the outer border of the sterno-niastoid muscle the external jugular vein empties into it, and just external to this point the vein is provided with a pair of valves. The Veins of the Thoracic Wall. The Internal Mammary Veins accompany each internal mammary artery and its branches in anastomosing pairs, whicli unite into a single trunk a sliort distance below their termination in the lower jiart of the brachio-cephalic vein.