208 THE ARTICULATIONS. C())i(!!tioii is f'oimd in tlie cervical, the latter in tlie lunibar rcgi(jii, and these are! the two most niiA'ablc parts. The direction of motion in any region is regulated by the shape of the arti(^ular processes. j In the neck all movements are permitted by the obliquity of the articular] processes. Extemion is more free than elsewhere, and jiexion is free, but lessj than in the lumbar region. Ldteral flexion is more extensive than in any other region, but it is a combination with rotation, neither motion occurring freely] by itself, excejit in the lower cervical region, where rotation is free. But little j motion is allowed between the axis and the third cervical vertebra, owing to thej tliinness of the disc and the overla[)ping of the axis in front. j III the thoracic region extension is checked by the overlapping of the laniinse'l and spines, as well as by the shape of the articular processes. The latter also| prevent flexion. As the articular processes lie in the arc of a circle of which thej centre is in front between the bodies, rotation is permitted and is most free in the upper jiart. Lateral flexion, otherwise possible, is prevented by the ribs. j In the lumbar regioyi, owing to the thickness of the discs (especially betweenl the lower three vertebrae), flexion is very free, extemion moderately so. The! centre of the circle in which the articular ])rocesses lie is situated behind ; but,! owing to the fact that these processes do not tit closely together, a slight aniountj of rotation and some lateral flexion are permitted, the lateral motion being alsq limited by the great transverse diameter of the bodies. j Motion is. therefore most free in regions whose curve is convex forward,j whose spinal canal and the contained spinal cord are largest, and where there are no bony cavities containing viscera. The ligamenta subflava complete the! spinal canal, prevent the ca])sular ligaments from being nipped between thej articular surfaces during motion, and restore these surfaces to their norma] position after movement. They have but little, if any, etfect in limiting flexioi; or restoring the column to the erect position after flexion. 2. The Articulations and Ligaments Between the Atlas, Axis, and Occipital Bone. The essential diifei'cnce between these and the intervertebral articulation; in general lies in the absence or modification of the intervertebral discs. Thi specialization of motion between these three bones results in some differences ii the ligaments, though most of them are the continuation of the series founc below. A. The Articulations between the Axis and the Atlas (Figs. 228, 229).—Ther^ are here two sets of synovial joints or articulations : 1. The joints between the superior articular processes of the axis and thl lateral masses of the atlas are arthrodial. Each is surrounded by a capntdd, lif/amerit, strengthened at the iimer and dorsal aspect Ijy an accessory lif/amm wliich passes from the back of the body of the axis upward and outward, alonj the outer edge of the occipito-axial ligament, to the lateral mass of the atla| behind the transverse ligament. j 2. The articulations of the odontoid process in the ring between the ventra arch of the atlas in front and the transverse ligament behind are of the troclmdA class. There are two synovial sacs—one in front, between the odontoid proce.'! and the atlas ; the other and more extensive one behind, between the odontoij process and the transverse ligament. These two sacs are separated by transversJ fibres, which pass from the sides f)f the odontoid i)rocess to the atlas, in front o, the tubercles for the transverse ligament. The transverse ligament is a thicl dense, and very strong band, which passes across the ring of the atlas betweo the tubercles on the inner side of its lateral masses. It is arched slightl backward, flattened from before backward, and cartilage-clad in front as it pafis< beliind the narrowed and faceted neck of the odontoid, which it holds in placj and by doing this preserves our lives. From and across the (-entre of its dors;