673 THE EAR. Fibrous trabeculse cross from the membranous labyrinth to the opposite side of the osseous in various parts, and assist in the fixation. The free surface of the peri- osteum is covered with delicate, flattened cells, developed from fibrous-tissue corpuscles. The Vestibule.—The central portion of the osseous labyrinth is a chamber of sufiicient size to give lodgment to the utricle and saccule. It is called the vesti- bule. On its outer side is an opening, the fenestra ovalis ("oval window"), wliich looks into the middle ear; but it is always closed in the recent condition. A depression at the front part of the mesial wall, called the fovea hemispherica, lodges the saccule ; and another hollow, the fovea hemiellvptica, behind and above Fig. 723.—Constituent parts of the osseous cochlea—the modiolus, the coiled tube, the spiral lamina- isolated in the first three pictures, and combined in the fourth. Diagrammatic. (Testut.) the last, holds the upper part of the utricle. Between the two is a ridge, the crista vestibuli, which divides below, and encloses a little pit in which lies the lower extremity of the canal of the cochlea. Close to this is the opening of the aqueductus vestibuli, holding the ductus endolymphaticus. Behind are the five apertures of the three semicircular canals. The canals bear a close resemblance in shape and direction to those of the membranous labyrinth which they enclose. The scala vestibuli of the cochlea begins at a large opening in the front and lower part of the vestibule. The Bony Cochlea (Figs. 723, 724).—In front of the vestibule the osseous labyrinth presents the cochlea, which looks very like a coiled shell, as its name implies. Its base faces inward, forward, and upward, its apex in the opposite direction. It is in reality, as in appearance, a tube, gradually diminishing in size from base to apex, and twined nearly three times around a central, conical core, the modiolus. From the side of the tube nearer the modiolus a thin shelf of bone, the lamina spiralis, projects about half way across its lumen. 43