THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS. 95 downward to divide the opening between them into two parts. In the ventricle a crescentic partition develops from the posterior and dorsal walls, and grows upward toward the auricular septum, with the lower border of which it unites, ending, liowever, in a free edge beneath the opening by which the aortic trunk communicates with the ventricle. The aortic trunk has meanwhile flattened dorso-ventrally, and on the inner surfaces of the flat sides two ridges develop, and finally unite, dividing the lumen of the aortic trunk longitudinally into two portions (i^ig- 108). The partition extends down into the ventricle, and unites c Fig. 108.—Development of the aorta and pulmonary artery. (After Born.) with the free edge of the ventricular septum, so that the division of the ventricle becomes complete, and the aortic trunk then separates completely into two tubes, one of which, the aorta, communicates with the left ventricle, while the other, the jjulmonary artery, opens into the right ventricle. The original tubular heart has thus become converted into a four-chambered organ which differs from the adult heart only in the existence of the foramen ovale in the auricular septum. The aortic trunk, prior to its division, in passing forward from the heart gives off from time to time pairs of lateral branches, which pass dorsally in the branchial arches. These are the aortic arches, which, on each side, unite above the branchial clefts to form a longitudinal vessel, and this, passing backward, unites with its fellow of the opposite side to form the dorsal aorta, (Figs. 109, 110). This primitive con- dition is, however, merely transitory, the first arches early disappearing, and then the second, the continuations of the aortic trunk from which these arche.s arise per- sisting, however, to form the e.vtenud carotid arteries, while the branches of the dorsal aorta into which they opened likewise pei'sist to form the internal carotids. The third arches persist, becoming portions of the internal carotids, and forming the connections between those arteries and the external carotids ; but the portions of the branches of the dorsal aorta which intervene between the third and fourth arches • disappear, thus cutting off the direct connections of the internal carotids with the dorsal aorta. The fourth arch of the left side persists in its entirety, forming the arch of the aorta of the adult, and is the only connection between the heart and the dorsal aorta, since the right branch of the dorsal aorta disap- pears completely behind the third arch, the right fourth arch forming part of the right subclavian artery. The fifth arches give rise to an artery on each side, the pulmonary arteries, and the portion of the arch distal to the branch on the right