THE FIFTH OR TRIFACIAL NERVE. 577 glia connected with the tiftli nerve—the ophtlialniic, splienopuhitine, otic, and .sub- maxillary. Each of these has three roots, derived from motor, sensory, and sympathetic nerves respectively, and a varying number of branches of distribu- tion. Their cells are multipolar, thus resembling the cells of symjiathetic ganglia, and diifering from those of the ganglia of the posterior spinal nerve-roots and (irasserian ganglion. The Ophthalmic, Ciliary, or Lenticula.r Ganglion (Fig. Go-")).—The ciliary gan- glion is a small reddish body about the size of a large pin-head (one-twelfth of an inch in long diameter), compressed laterally, and ([uadrilateral in sha|)e, present- ing four angles. It lies at the back of the orbit, between the external rectus and the optic nerve, and is often in contact with the ophthalmic artery. Its long (sensory) root is derived from the nasal nerve, entering its supero- posterior angle. Often incorporated with this or entering the ganglion by its side is the sympathetic rt)ot, derived from the cavernous plexus ; and its motor root is a short, comparatively thick (jifset from the branch of the tliird nerve to the inferior oblique, which enters the postero-ijiferior angle of the ganglion. Fig. 639.—Maxillary division of the trifacial nerve and Medici's ganglion. (Testnt.) From the anterior angles of the ganglion spring its branches of distribution I called the >s\\orf cU'mvy nerves. There are at first six to eight of them, arranged in two groups, superior and inferior, the inferior group being joined by the long I ciliary nerves from the nasal. They pass along the np]ier and lower surfaces of 1 the optic nerve, subdividing until about twelve to eighteen tine filaments reach the sclerotic, and ])ierce it in a circle round the optic nerve. They supply nerves of ordinary sensation and trophic nerves to the eyeball (derived from the nasal), motor nerves to the ciliary muscle and sphincter iridis (derived from the oculo- motor), and sympathetic nerves to the dilatator fibi'cs of the iris. I Ths Second or Maxillary Division of the Fifth Nerve (Fig. 039).—The maxillary Unperior tnaxUlarji) nerve is intermediate in size and position between the two other divisions of the fifth nerve, and like the first is purely sensory. After a 37