588 THE NER VES. Running forward in the ^ul)stance of the parotid olaiid, in whicli they cros.< superficially to the external carotid artery and temporo-niaxillary vein, the tcm- jyorofacidl division after receiving a stout branch from the auriculo-temjioral nerve, subdivides into temporal, malar, and infraorbital branches, and tlie cervico- facial division into buccal, mpramaiuJibular, and irframaxillary branches ; the parotid duct sej^arating the infraorbital from the buccal nerve. Leaving out the inframandibular nerve, these branches spread all over the face, each occupving mainly the region which its name indicates. They form, by interlacing witli each other and with the various cutaneous branches of the fifth nerve, an intricate net- work called the jjr.s^ a/i.se/v'H?/.si (" goose's foot"), and supply all the face-muscles, including the buccinator, the frontalis, and the anterior muscles of the auricle. The inframandibular brancli emerges from the parotid gland behind the angle of the lower jaw, runs downward and forward under the platysma over the inframandibular and adjacent region of the neck, communicating freely with the great auricular and superficial cervical nerves, and supply ing the platvsma on its under surface. It should further be said that the zygomatic muscles and levator labii supe- rioris lie superficial to the infraorbital branch, and the risorius, depressor anguli oris, and depressor labii inferioris cross the supramandibular branch ; but with these exceptions the branches of the facial nerve are superficial. Beaxches fkom the Temporofacial Divisiox.—The temporal branch of the temporofacial division of the facial nerve passes upward thrnugh the parotid gland, over tlie zygoma, and divides intf) branches, which supply the orbicularis palpebrarum, frontalis, corrugator supercilii, attrahens and attollens aurem, and small muscles of the front of the pinna. Its branches form numerous communica- tions with each other, with the malar branch, and with the auriculotemporal, tem- poral, lachrymal, and sttpraorbital branches of the fifth nerve. Xotc.—The branches to the frontalis and orbicularis palpebrarum are derived from the nucleus of the third nerve. The malar brancli runs forward over the malar bone, and is distributed mainly to the orl)icularis ]>alpel)raruni. It sends filaments to both eyelids and communi- cates freely with the tem]ioral and infraorViital branches of the facial, and the supraorbital, lachrymal, malar, and infraorbital branches of the fifth nerve. The infraorbital brancli emerges from the anterior border of the parotid gland just above the parotid duct, and divides into branches which radiate to the region of the face between the orbit and the mouth. They pass under the zygomatic muscles and the levator labii superioris, under the latter muscle forming with the infraorbital branch of the fifth nerve the infraorbital j^/r.r?/.s. It communicates also with the neighboring focial l)ranches (malar and bticcal) and with the buccal, malar, nasal, and infratrochlear In'anches of the fifth ; and supidies the zygomatic muscles, levator anguli oris, levator labii superioris, levator labii superioris alseqne nasi, pyramidalis nasi, compressor nasi, and depressor alee nasi; also the buc- ciuator and orbicularis oris. Branches fro5[ the Cervicofacial Division.—The cervicofacial division runs downward and forward in the parotid gland crossing the external carotid arterv. In the substance of the gland it receives fibres from the great auricular nerve. It divides into the following three branches : The buccal branch emerges from the parotid gland under the parotid duct, crosses the masseter muscle, and breaks up into twigs to the liuccinator and orbicularis oris. It communicates with neighboring branches of the facial and with the long buccal nerve. The supramandibular branch crosses the masseter muscle and facial vessels on the body of tlio mandible, and under the risorius and depressors of the lower lip passes toward the chin. It supplies the risorius, de2iressf)r anguli oris, depressor labii inferioris, and levator menti, and communicates with the liuccal and infra- mandibular branch of the facial and with the mental branch of the inferior dental nerve.