THE ARTERIES. ment of the knee-joint and below by the popliteus muscles. The space contains the popliteal artery in close contact with its floor, the popliteal vein superficial to the artery and the internal popliteal nerve superficial to the vein, these structures being almost in the mid-line of the space. The external popliteal nerve runs along the outer and upper border of the space, in close contact with the biceps. The space contains much fat and areolar tissue, and a few lymphatic nodes. Variations.—The popliteal sometimes divides into three branches, the anterior tibial, the posterior tibial, and the peroneal; at times into the anterior tibial and peroneal, the peroneal supjjlying the place of the posterior tibial. Sometimes a high division of the popliteal occurs opposite the knee-joint. Surgical Anatomy (Fig. 4811.—The popliteal is sometimes injured in fracture Fig. 481.—Surgical relations of the popliteal artery. (Kocher.) of the lower end of the femur. AVhen the lower end of the femur is divided in operations to correct the deformity of knock-knee, the artery must be carefully avoided. The popliteal artery, next to the aorta, is the most common site of aneurism. This condition is relieved usually by pressure, or the ligation of the femoral, although at times the aneurismal sac is dissected out, and the artery ligated above and below the lesion. The pojiliteal can be exposed and ligated at any part of its course. The artery is more superficial in the upper and lower portions of the popliteal space than in the middle portion. In exposing the vessel in any part of its course the fact that the internal popliteal nerve and the popliteal vein are superficial to the artery must be borne in mind, and these structures avoided. The Branches of the popliteal artery are the muscular, the cutaneous, the articular, and the anterior and j^osterior tibial. The muscular are distributed to the muscles forming the boundai'ies of the popliteal space, a superior set to the hamstring muscles, and an inferior set to the gastrocnemius, plantaris, soleus, and popliteus. The cutaneous branches supply the integument over the calf of the leg. The articular branches are five in number : the superior inter- nal, the superior external, the azygos, the inferior internal, and the inferior external articular arteries. The superior and inferior articular arteries wind around the knee-joint, and form an anastomosis with each other around the patella. These vessels anastomose with the i-ecurrent branches from the arteries of the leg, with the anastomotica magna of the femoral, and with the perforating