692 THE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SENSES. liairs, the cUla or eyelashes, which curve away from the ]wlpehral aperture. Behind tliese and nearer to the posterior angle are the openings of the (hicts of tlie Meibomian [/lands, twenty or thirty in number and more numerous in tlie Fig. 739.—The tarsi and ihcir ligaments—right eye, front view. (Testut.) upper lid than in the lower. There are also modified sweat and sebaceous glands in this situation. For the first fifth incli out from the inner canthus the divergence of the lids is very gradual and then suddenly becomes more marked. Along this part the lids have no cilia and are not in contact with the eyeball. Nestling in between them in this situation, and resting against tlie globe of the eye, is a little fleshy protuberance, the earuncula lacliryiiialis (" the little fleshy body jiertaining to tears"), which has all the characteristics of true skin, although quite isolated from the adjacent integument. The depression here between the lids, from the bottom of which the caruncle protrudes, is known as the laeus lachrymalis (" lake of tears "). Just at the points where the divergence of the lids becomes suddenly more pronounced a small prominence may be noticed on the margin of each lid. This is the papilla lachrymalis, and on its summit is the minute opening, punctum lachrymale of tlie lachrymal catiaJ, leading into the lachrymal sac. The lower punctum is slightly farther out than the upper. The puncta are applied to the surface of the globe and are not seen unless the lids are slightly everted. Structure of the Eyelids (Fig. 740).—On their superficial aspect the eyelids have a covering of skin, very thin and delicate, and containing fine hairs, sebaceous follicles, and sweat glands. On their jiosterior surface they are covered by a mucous membrane, called the conjunctiva, which, at a certain distance back from the free margin, is reflected onto the eyeball. Between these two coverings various other structures enter into the formation of the lid. Imme- diately beneath the skin is a layer of loose, fiitless, areolar tissue, which provides for the laxity of the integument. Embedded in this tissue is the orbicularis palpebrarum mnscle, the sphincter of the paljiebral aperture, serving by its con- traction to approximate the lids, and thus close the eye. Deeper than this is the tarsus (often, though improperly, called " tarsal cartilage ") (Fig. 739), a thin plate of dense, fibrous tissue devoid of cartilage cells, which strengthens the margin of the liil, and stretches from the inner to the outer orbital wall. The ujiper tarsus is much stronger and thicker than the loAver, and about twice as Avide. Each tarsus is thickest at its free border and widest in the middle. They thin off toward the attached edges above and below, and taper toward the ends. Their attachments to the inner and outer orbital margins are known as the inner