THE BONES. 124 CERVICAL VERTEBRjE THORACIC VERTEBRAE bodies steadily increases from above downward to the sacrum. The bodies are widest in the cervical and lumbar regions, where motion is most free. The rear view presents in the middle line the series of spines, nearly hori- zontal and about (opposite the corre- sponding bodies in the cervical and lumbar regions, thus allowing free motion. The spines of the upper cer- vical vertebrie are not readily felt in the living body until we reach the seventh, or sometimes the sixth, spine. The upper thoracic spines are easily felt as subcutaneous, the lower thoracic and lumbar less so, for they lie in the deep spinal furrow bounded by the masses of muscles which occupy the vertebral grooves. At the sides of the spines are the vertebra/ grooves, bounded externally by a row of transverse processes. The floor of these grooves is formed by the laminje, connected by the ligamenta subflava, and by the articular pro- cesses with the mammillary processes in the lower part of the spine. The sjjinal canal is large and triangular in the cervical and lumbar regions, smaller and round in the thoracic region, and still smaller and flattened in the sacral region. The weakest point in the spine is found between the second and tliird cervical vertebrce, but the union of the thoracic and lumbar curves, or the twelfth thoracic vertebra and those on either side of it, is most liable to in- jury, for here a fixed part joins the most movable, there is a long leverage on both sides, and the transverse width is least. Notice that the plane be- tween any two vertebrae is interrupted of the articular processes and other, e dislocation between two ver- LUMBAR VERTEBR/E -The spinal column, right lateral view and (Testut.) by the upward and downward jjrojection parts connected with the neural arch, tebrse is, therefore, almost imjjossible, unless perhaps in the cervical region, where the surfaces of the articular ])rocesses are more nearly horizontal. This is borne out in practice, where we find fracture-dislocation the common injury, the processes or neural arch being commonly fractured, if not the body itself. Ossification of the Vertebrae. The vertebrae are preformed in cartilage (Fig. 146) around the notochord and enclosing the spinal cord. In most cases three primary centres of ossification occur—one on either side in the neural arch, and one in the body. The former unite together in the median line dorsally to form the arch. J^ut sometimes this union fails for a distance, especially in the lumbar and sacral regions, leaving a gap through which a sjjina bifida may occur. The part formed by the ossific centres of the neural arch constitutes a varying amount of the lateral and dorsal aspects of the bodies (including the rib facets), se^jarated for a time