ELEMENTARY TISSUES. 66 part or the lining of a cavity. Witli the hitter signification the term is employed in this section. The type npon which all of the members of the gronp are constructed consists of a foundation of white and yellow fibrous tissue, which is limited toward the free surface by a single layer of very thin, plate-like cells, and u\)u\\ tliis last an epithelium (Fig. 67). The fibrous tissues are felted into a layer of variable thick- - ( Fig. 67.—a typical membrane in vertical section. (F. H. G.) ness, strength, flexibility, and elasticity, according to the proportion and arrange- ment of its ingredients, and is called the cor/Hvu (" leather "). The lamella of flattened cells surmounting tins is really a part of the corium, for it consists merely of cells of the white fibrous tissue, greatly attenuated and adhering to each other at their edges. It is termed the baxeinent membrane. Finally comes the epithelium, which jjresents upon the free surface, and may be either simple or stratified in numberless layers. In most cases the attached surface of the membrane is connected with the underlying structures by areolar tissue, abundant or scanty, which permits some gliding of the membrane on the subjacent parts. This areolar tissue is called subserous, suImiiucous, subcutaneous, and so on, according to the kind of mem- brane under which it lies. The line between it and the corinm of the membrane is not exactly determinable, as a rule, the two structures being made of precisely the same materials, diflering only in their mode of arrangement, and gradually shading from one into the other. AVhen the membrane is peeled olf from the areolar tissue its under surface is flocculent, on account of the attachment of bundles of the fibrous tissues of the latter. In the areolar tis.sue course the larger vessels and nerves of the region, sending their branches to, or receiving their radicles from, the corium. There are four clas.ses of membranes : 1. Serous Membranes. 2. Synovial Membranes. 3. Mucous Membranes. 4. Cutaneous Membrane. SEROUS MEMBRANES. Of all the raend^ranes, the serous are the sim])lest—the nearest the type which has been described. They are always moist with a fluid very like blood-serum, and from this fact they derive their name. They are thin and transparent, permitting a view of the immediately subjacent parts, fairly strong, considering their delicacy, and somewhat elas- tic. With a single exception, which obtains in all females, but never in males, the serous memljranes are shut sacs ; that is to say, they have no opening by which they communicate with the surface of the body (Fig. 68). In the simplest of them this condition is so plain as to be easilv understood ; in the most com- FiG. 68.—Diagram showing arrangement of . • n , i a serons membrane. The broken line repre- plicated it IS UOt especially ClltnCUlt tO ClcmOll- (KH. G." '"'^"^^^'^"'^ ^^"^'"^ '^"'^^ strate, even though the form of the membrane