49 ADIPOSE TISSUE. stomach; everywhere among bundles of fibres, as in muscle,—in all such situa- tions is areolar tissue, furnishing a springy bed for the blood-vessels. Indeed, it may be laid down as a rule that vessels are developed in this sort of tissue, and always continue to occupy it. Adipose Tissue. Areolar tissue has been described as composed of white and yellow fibrous tissues, disposed in such a way as to leave irregular spaces between their bundles. Some of the cells of the white fibrous tissue of this combination in certain cir- cumstances undergo peculiar changes. The outer layer hardens, forming a deli- cate cell-wall ; the most of the substance of the cell is converted into liquid oil; and the nucleus, ])reviously central, is crowded off to one side, thus becoming peripheral, and is flistencd to the cell-wall. Thus is formed a fat-cell (Fig. 34)— a veritable sac of liquid oil, deserving the name " cell " in the etymological as well as in the his- . tological sense. Such cells are lodged in the jr*'®L.^S.^-^^~x Fig. 34.—Fat-cells : a, filled with oil; h, exhausted of Fig. 35.—Fat-cells packed closely together, oil, the cell-wall shrivelled. (Kolliker.) and thus becoming polyhedral. spaces of areolar tissue very generally ; but in a few localities they are never seen—the penis, the eyelids, the cavity of the cranium, and the lungs (excepting a little near the roots). When the number of fat-cells is suilicient to fill the areolae even moderately, the fmue is called adipose or fatty. The cells are round or ovoid, except when they are closely ])acked, and then the mutual pressure pro- duces angular facets all over them (Fig. .'>5). Fatty tissue is yellow, soft, and resilient when living, but hard when dead. Its quantity is very variable, and there is no absolute criterion of the normal quantity. But when its shifting line of healthful development is overstepped, obesity or corpulence is reached—a patho- logical condition which may interfere with the proper performance of vital functions. Sometimes the fat in the abdominal wall attains a thickness of six inches. The uses of adipose tissue are various. It is a cushion for organs—the kid- neys always lie in a bed of fat, and other organs are similarly provided, though less lavishly. Being a slow transmitter of heat, it is a protection against cold— it is always found in the great serous apron which hangs down in fi'ont of the bowels, and doul)tless serves to keep them warm. Adipose tissue is a reservoir of nutrient material which is drawn upon in starvation. If an animal is deprived of suitable food, his system relies largely upon its store of fat in the emergency. If a wolf and a sheep are starving, each feeds upon its own fat, the herbivorous animal becoming for the time practically a carnivorous one, since it lives on fat mutton. A man wasting with fever lives on his own tissues—cannibalistically consumes human flesh. The adipose, being a cheap tissue, is used most freely ; nervous tissue, the most costly, suffers the least loss of weight. During the process of starvation the oil is abstracted from the cells, and the walls become wrinkled and collapsed. The nucleus, however, keeps alive ; and, when nourish- ment is again appropriated by the system, the nucleus becomes active, takes from the blood the materials suitable for the manufacture of oil, combines them prop- erly, and deposits the product in the cell-cavity, which soon becomes plump again. Finally, it is not unworthy to mention the jesthetic effect of a reasonable amount of adipose, which softens the asperities of sharj) angles, and contributes to the pro- duction of the graceful contours, which are so essential to perfect beauty of form. 4