471 THE VEINS. PPER END OF ORACIC DUCT The Superior Intercostal Veins.—The veins from the two to four intercostal spaces below the first join together to foi*m a short trunk, which on the right side descends to empty into tlie upper part of the great azygos vein, and on the /eft side ascends across the arch of the aorta to empty into the left brachio-ce])halic vein. The left superior intercostal vein communicates interiorly with the left upper azygos vein, and sometimes receives the left ])ronchial vein. It is often connected with the oblique vein of Marshall by a fibrous cord, traceable through the vestigial fold of the pericardium and representing the left duct of Cuvier. The veins of the upper intercostal space, or sometimes the upper two intercostal spaces, ascend to join the vertebral or brachio-cephalic vein of the corresponding side. The Azygos Veins (Fig. 501). The Azygos Veins, developed from the primitive cardinal veins, form an anastomosis between the inferior and superior venas cavse, which is of inip(jrtance in obstruction of the inferior vena cava. They receive the venous blood of most of the dorsal and late- ral thoracic walls. The azygos veins are three in number, and lie on the sides of the front of the vertebral bodies. The Right or Great Azygos Vein (^vena azygos major) commences in the abdomen as an upward continuation of the ascend- ing lumbar vein, which communicates Avith the common iliac vein, and is often connected with the inferior vena cava and the renal vein. It ascends through the aortic opening of the diaphragm on the right of the aorta and the thoracic duct, in Avhich position it continues up- w^ard in the posterior mediastinum in front of the right intercostal ar- teries, grooving the dorsal border of the right pleura. Opposite the lower end of the fourth thoracic vertebra it bends forward over the root of the right lung, to empty into the superior vena cava at a point just above where the latter pierces the peri- cardium. Tributaries.—It re- cieves (1) the right sub- costal vein ; (2) the seven or eight lower right intercostal veins ; (3) the right superior intercostal vein ; (4) the right broncliial veins ; (5, 6) the left lower and the left upper azygos veins, and some small (7) cesophageal ; (8) pericardial ; and (9) mediastinal veins. ASCENOIN Fig. 501.—Azygii^ aii.l iiiturcostal veins. (Testut.)