369 THE HEART. pal sets, anterior and posterior. From their summits project delicate tendons, chordce teiidinew, vfhich are inserted into the free edges and under side? of the flaps of the tricuspid valve. Running across the chamber obliquely is usually a prominent muscular beam, the moderator band. Action.—When the muscular wall of the ventricle contracts, the cavity is practically obliterated, and its contents are discharged. As soon as contraction begins, the tricuspid valve is closed, and, were it not for the special restraining apparatus, its flaps would be swept into the auricle, and the greater part of the blood in the ventricle would go with them. But the papillary muscles come into action simultaneously with all other parts of the wall, and pull the valve down- ward exactly to the extent that the blood tends to push it upward beyond the plane at which the free margins of its segments come in close contact. Thus regurgitation is prevented, and the blood is forced through the only other avenue of escape, the pulmonary artery. The con- traction of the ventricle ceasing, the dis- tended artery has a tendency to return some of its contents to the ventricle; but, as soon as the column of fluid starts back- ward, the semilunar festoons, which have been flattened by the outrush of blood from the heart, are closed Avith a snap, the accumulation in the sinuses behind them giving the first impulse, and the pressure of the fluid in the artery completing the act. In this way not a drop is allowed to regurgitate. The columnse carnese of the second and third varieties are useful in regulating contraction and evenly dis- tributing pressure, the moderator band being of especial service in preventing too 426.-The three varieties of columns great distention and in causing approxima- carnea;. (f. h. g.) tion of the opposite walls. The Left Auricle presents fewer irregularities of internal surface than does the right (Fig. 427). The musculi pectinati are less numerous and less pronounced. Toward the rear on each side are the orifices of two pulmonary veins. The posi- tion of the fcetal foramen ovale is indicated by a slight indentation on the septal wall. The auricido-ventricular opening is much like that in the right heart, but a little smaller. It is guarded by the bicuspid valve. The Left Ventricle has a capacity equal to that of the right, but its cavity has a ditferent shape, being ovoidal. In general features it strongly resembles the other ventricle. The three varieties of colurmm carnece are present; but, while these muscular bundles are more numerous, they are of less size. The papilhiry muscles are disposed in two series. A band, similar to the moderator of the right ventricle, but much smaller, crosses the chamber. At the uppermost part of the septum the wall is fibrous and very thin, constituting a weak area, sometimes called the undefended space. The auriculo-ventricuiar orifice and that of the aorta are verv close together, the former being toward the rear, the latter near the front. The auriculo-ventricuiar valve is called bicuspid, on account of its having two chief segments, and mitred, because these flaps, when open, are somewhat suggestive of a bishop's mitre (Fig. 428). One segment lies close to the hind wall, the other and larger is between the two orifices. Frequently small second- ary segments are found lietween the two great flaps. The valve is connected with papillary muscles by chordee tendinece, and in general features of structure is like the tricuspid, already described. The valve at the base of the aorta (Fig. 429) is a rejjetition of that of the pulmonary artery, except that in almost every respect its characteristics are more pronounced. The semilunar segments are situated 24