138 2'HE BONES. 1 ANTERIOR BORDER osity aud capitellura of the humerus and the lower end of the uhui are in a straight line. The irregular upper extremity is the thickest part, and j)resents for articulation with the trochlea of the humerus the great sigmoid (" signia-like ") cavity. This looks forward and upward, is concave from above downward, and presents a longitudinal ridge which Hts into the groove of the trochlea. At tlie middle of the cavity is a constriction (sometimes a groove) which repre- sents the limit between the upper and iiind part formed by the olecranon, and the lower and fore part formed by the coronoid process. The thick o/ava/foy; (" elbow-head ") process forms the highest part of the ulna. On its broad upper surface the triceps is inserted dorsally, while the front of this surface projects in a beak which overhangs the great sigmoid cavity, and fits into the olecranon fossa of the humerus in exten- sion of the elbow. The dorsal surface is triangular and subcutaneous, except for a bursa covering it. The margins of the ventral or articular surface attach the internal and posterior ligaments of the elbow. From a tubercle on its inner side part of the flexor carpi ulnaris arises. The coronoid (" crown-like ") jivocess projects forward from the upper end of the shaft. Its sharp ventral edge, or apex, is received into the coronoid fossa of the humerus in flexion. The ventral and internal edges of its upper or articular surface attach the anterior and internal ligaments of the elbow. The inferior or ventral surface is rough, and, together with the tuberosity at its lower end, gives insertion to the brachialis. The oblique ligament is attached to the outer part of the tuberosity. On the inner edge of the ventral surface is a tubercle from which part of the flexor sublimis digitorum arises, and from the ridge below this parts of the pronator radii teres and flexor longus pollicis arise. On the outer side of the upper end of the coronoid process, and continuous with the great sigmoid cavity, is the concave, oval, small sigmoid ccwity for articulation with the side of the head of the radius. The shaft tapers from above downward. It is curved inward above, outward below, as well as slightly backward. Triangular in the upper three-fourths, more rounded below, it presents the following parts : The anterior or ventral border runs from the inner margin of the coronoid process to the front of the styloid process, becoming continuous with the oblique pronator ridge in its lower fifth. The posterior or dorsal border begins at the apex of the subcutaneous triangle behind the olecranon, and runs sinuously to the back of the styloid process, becoming less distinct below. The external or interosseous border, faintly marked below, is sharply marked in the middle, and attaches the interosseous membrane. It bifurcates above into two lines which pass to the two ends of the small sigmoid cavity, and enclose a triangular s])ace whicii, with its prominent dorsal border, called tlie supinator ridge, gives origin to the su])inator muscle. The ventral surface gives origin in the concave upper three-fourths to the flexor pro- fundus digitorum, and in the lower fourth, below the oblique pronator ridge, to the pronator qnadratus. In the middle third is the nutrient foramen, directed j upward. The internal surface gives origin to the flexor profundus digitorum in STYLOID PROCESS Fig. 161—The bones of the right fore arm, rear view. (Testut.)