601 THE SPINAL NERVES. SPI NAL ACCESSORY CERVICAL PLEXUS BRACHIAL PLEXUS peniOR CERVICAL ON OF SYM- PATHETIC MIDDLE CERVI- CAL GANGLION NFERIOR CERVI- CAL GANGLION fibres for distribution to the vessels which it innervates, and contributes meduUated fibres to the sympathetic trunk. The ventral primary divisions of the thoracic nerves (except the first) form intercostal nerves, and are distributed each to its own area, but in all the other regions intricate plexuses are formed by neighboring nerves before their branches of dis- tribution are given otf. The recurrent branch is a small twig given otf from the nerve immediately after it leaves the interverteljral fora- men. It receives a communi- cation from the sympathetic and re-enters the spinal canal to supply the meninges and blood-vessels. Dorsal Primary Divisions of the Spinal Nerves.— General Statement.—The dorsal pritnary divisions of the spinal nerves (Fig. 654) are destined for the supply of the skin of the back of the seal]), trunk, and gluteal region, and the muscles of the posterior spinal group, except those connected with the upper limb, the serrati posteriores, and the levatores costarum. With the few excej)tions men- tioned below, each nerve passes backward between the trans- verse processes of the adjacent vertebrae and spinal muscles, dividing into an internal and external branch. From sixth thoracic nerve up- lumbar GANGLIA an the ward the internal branches are larger and are mainly cuta- neous, the external branches are smaller and purely mus- cular ; below that point the arrangement is reversed, the external branches being the larger, and mainly distributed to the skin, the internal branches small and chiefly dis- tributed to the erector spinse and deeper spinal muscles. Exceptions to this general type are as follow : The dorsal primary divis- ion of the first cervical (sub- occipital) nerve does not divide, is usually purely muscular, and rerpiires special description. The dorsal divisions of the fourth and fifth sacral nerves and the coccygeal nerve do not divide, but form loops witli each other, and are purely cutaneous. COCCYGEAL^ PLEXUS Fig. 653.—Anterior surface of the spinal cord, showing the spinal nerves and their connections with the sympathetic trunk on one side. (Testut.)