457 THE VEINS. from the head, neck, upper extremities and thoracic walls. It contains no valves. Relations.—On its right side are the right lung and pleura, with the phrenic nerve between. On its left side lies the braehio-cephalic artery above, and the ascending portion of the aortic arch below. In fre/nt it is overlapped by the right pleura and lung. The root of the right lung lies behind it. Its Icderal tributaries are the great azygos vein, which enters it just before it penetrates the pericardium, and small veins from the ^pericardium and mediastinum. The Braehio-cephalic Veins. The braehio-cephalic or innomincde reins return the blood from the head, neck, upper extremities, and a part of the thoracic walls. They are formed by the union of the subclavian and internal jugular veins, behind the sternal end of each clavicle, and unite below, opposite the lower border of the first right costal car- tilage, at its junction with the sternum, to fttrm the sujjerior vena cava. At the angle of junction of the subclavian and jugular veins there open into the venous circulation the thoracic duct on the left side and the right lymphatic duct on the right side. There are no valves in the braehio-cephalic veins. The Right Braclxio-ceplialic Vein, only about an inch in length, descends nearly vertically on the outer side of, and superficial to, the braehio-cephalic and the commencement of the subclavian arteries. The right lung and j^leura lie on its right side and in front, with the phrenic nerve between. The Left Braehio-cephalic Vein, two and a half to three inches long, passes from left to right with a sliuht downward inclination to join the right vein. In front of it lies the upper part of the manubrium sterui, with the lower ends of the sternal muscles, below it the arch of the aorta, and behind it the three branches of the arch, and the left phrenic and pneumogastric nerves. Latercd Tributaries.—Each brachio-ce])halic vein receives the vertebral, inferior thyroid, and internal mammary veins of its own side, and, in addition, the left vein receives the left superior intercostal vein, and small thymic, medi- astinal, and pericardial branches. Variations in the Superior Vena Cava and Brachio-cephedic Veins.—These are mostly due to a persistence of the left duct of Cuvier of the f etus, which may form a left superior vena cava. This descends from the commencement of the left braehio-cephalic vein, in front of the aortic arch and the root of the left lung, to the heart, Avhere it is continued in the usual position of the coronary sinus to open into the right auricle. The usual left braehio-cephalic vein may persist as a small communicating branch between the right and left superior venae cavse, or it may be altogether wanting. In a few cases besides those of transposition of the viscera the superior vena cava is found on the left side, the right brachio- cephalic vein taking a transverse cour.se similar to that usually taken by the left. Veins of the Head and Neck. I. Veins of the Surface of the Head asd Face (Fig. 492). A. ANTERIOR REGION. The superficial veins of the face and the fore part of the head and the deep veins of the face unite to form two trunks, the facial and the temporo-maxillary veins, while the occipital and posterior auricular veins collect the blood from the liind part of the scalp. Valves are generallv absent in the veins of the head and neck, except at the lower end of the internal and external jugular veins. The Facial Vein (anterior faded) collects the blood from the fore part of the face and scalp. It commences at the side of the nose, on a line with the lower margin of the orbit, as the direct continuation of the angular vein. It is less