THE EYE. 107 whose lips, gradually ap])r()aehino;, finally fuse, except below, to form a pair of cavi- ties, the openinjis into which are the anterior narc>i. These at first coniniunicate with the mouth, but become separated from it by the union of the two maxillary processes, a separation further perfected by the formation of the hard palate. The Eye.—The first indications of the eye are a pair of hollow outgrowths from tiie anterior vesicle of the brain (Fig. 122), and these take the form of vesicles in contact with the ectoderm externally and united to the 'tween-brain by narrow optic stalks. Tliat portion of the wall of each vesicle which is in contact with the ectoderm becomes invaginated, and the vesicle thus becomes converted into a double-walled cup, from whose walls the retina is formed. The invagination proceeds more rapidly on the under side of the vesicle, and is con- tinued backward some distance on the optic stalk, which thus becomes grooved on its under surface, the optic cup being imperfect along a narrow line on its under surface, this opening being the ehoroidalfissure (Fig. 125). MHien the retina is estab- FlG. 125.—Diagrams of the formation of tlie optic cup and choroidal Assure. lished nerve-fibres grow from its cells toward the brain, choosing the optic stalk as the path of least resistance, and thus converting it into the solid optic nerve. That portion of the surface ectoderm with which the optic vesicle came in contact early begins to thicken, and later becomes invag- inated, pressing upon the wall of the vesicle. This ecto- derm gradually separates from the surface and forms a spherical, hollow structure, lying in the mouth of the optic cup; it is the anlage of the lens (Fig. 12(3). Later, the cells of its anterior wall flatten down to form the epithelium of the lens (Fig. 127), while those of the posterior wall become much elongated, and are converted into fibres running in various directions and completely filling the original cavity. At first the lens is in close contact with the surface ectoderm; but later mesenchymal tissue pushes in between it and the ectoderm, forming a layer which becomes converted into the cornea (Fig. 127), the ectoderm external to it forming the conjunc- tiva. At the same time a concentration of mesenchyme takes place all around the optic cup to form the sclerotic and choroid coats of the eyeball, and between the outer surface of the lens and the cornea fluid collects, forming the aqueous humor. The vitreous body is formed by the migration of mesenchyme into the interior of the optic cup through the choroid fissure, and is at first richly supplied with blood, the artery bringing it running along the groove on the under surface of the optic stalk, and so entering the choroid fissure. In the later Fi(i. 12fi.— Semi-diagram of the secondary optic vesicle and the developing lens: AB, layer which becomes pigmentary reti- nal layer; C, posterior chamber, to be occupied by vitreous; If, remnant of cavity of primary optic vesicle; IB, layer which becomes greater part of retina; L, lens, as a cup open on exte- 7'ior ; M, M, M, mesoderm ; M', M', points from which meso- derm grows in to form iris and body of cornea; -f, place at which the primary optic vesicle has been doubled back on itself; *, point of invagination of ecto- derm to form lens. (Wieder- slieim.)