THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 730 The Sigmoid Colon. The sigmoid colon (Figs. 787-7iS!») is often called the sigmoid flexure ; but as the term " flexure" is used to designate the bends between the horizontal and the two vertical jwrtions—mere angles in, and not parts of, the tube—it is eonfusint;- to have the same name applied to a ])or- tion of the bowel, which, while the seat of complicated flexions, includes a consid- erable length of the intestine. " Sigmoid cohm" signifies a part of this intestine, whose form is so tortuous as to suggest the DESCENDING COLON Fig. 787.—Sigmoid colon, front view. Semidiagram- matic. (Testut.) Fig. 788.—Sigmoid colon, dorsal (Drawn from tlie His cast. F. H. G.) Greek letter sigma, and seems, on the whole, to be the best of its numerous titles. The Limits of the Sigmoid Colon.—The sigmoid colon is the most movable and the most variable of the divisions of the large intestine. It is continuous below with the rectum, and most authors fix the dividing line between the two opposite the joint of the left hip-bone with the sacrum. But the result of many careful observations shows that, while the large intestine cros.ses this articulation in some cases, in the majority this condition does not obtain. Even if the classical description were in acccu'dance with the fact, there would seem to be little wisdom in separating these two territories of intestinal surface by this extraneous and purely arbitrary boundary, thus depriving the sigmoid colon of a portion of intestine exactly like its major part in structure, and bestowing it upon the rectum, from which it materially differs. A few recent writers, recognizing the expediency of adopting the intrinsic dividing line, which nature has established, have dis- carded the extrinsic and artificial boundary, and confine the application of the name "rectum" to that portion of the liowel below the brim of the true pelvis which has no mesentery. This method is here adopted. The sigmoid colon (Fig. 787) begins on the plane of the crest of the left ilium, and thence usually passes down to within an inch and a half of the inguinal (Poupart's) ligament, bends sharply toward the middle line, crosses the psoas magnus muscle, dips into the cavity of the true pelvis, I'ises to the brim on the right side, and thence curves backward, downward and inward to about the third sacral vertebra at the median line, where it becomes continuous with the rectum. It is 14 or more inches long. For its uppermost three inches it has a serous covering on its front and sides only ; but below this it has a mesocolon in its entire length. The sigmoid mesocolon is much longer in the middle portions than toward the ends. The diameter of this part of the intestine is less than that of the preceding, and constantly, though gradually, diminishes toward its lower end. The three longitudinal bands are continued on the sigmoid colon for most of its course ; but, as the end is approached, those which are behind spread out and