cVb f }/ ? 1 I I I .I. A CLINICAL HISTORY OF THE • \ ACUTE RHEUMATISM, Or RHEUMATICK FEVER. With a CORRESPONDENCE; CONTAINING THE Testimony of eight eminent Physicians in the Metropolis, to explain the lenefcial Effects of the Peruvian Bark, Cinchona, in the Acute Rheumatism. II. A CLINICAL HISTORY OF THE NODOSITY OF THE JOINTS. "Orav ri, Wyvaj on trotvireov If, itoiys, perfltrors <pvyys oipQyvxt 7TpoCCT&COV OCVTOy X.OCV CcXXoToV T l 01 7ToXXoi (AS XXoJO'l TTEpi OCVTS viroXtz/s.Guveiv. E i fs.lv yap sn of us ttoisTs, avro to tpyov (ptvyf ei oi of us, rl (poGri rus Intrn'K-l (,ov\as bjc of us-, EPICTETI ENCHEIRIDION, 3£. •“ Before thy mystic altar, heavenly Truth, “ I kneel in manhood, as I knelt in youth ; “ Thus let me kneel, till this dull form decay, “ And life’s last shade be brighten’d by thy ray.” sir william jontp , *rf . BY JOHN HAYGARTH, M. D. F. R. S. AND F.R.S. EDINB. \ AND OF OTHER MEDICAL AND PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETIES. A Neiv Edition, -with CorrcSions, and Additions. PRINTED BY RICHARD CRUTTWELL, ST. JAMES’S-STREET, BATH, FOR CADELL AND DAVIES, STRAND, LONDON. 1813.CONTENTS sect. I. Rheumatism. II. Described. 1I[. Usual Remedies. IV. Table 1ft of Rheumatick Cases explained. V. Male and Female Patients. VI. Ages of Rheumatick Patients. VII. What Season most Rheumatick. VIII. Causes of Rheumatism. IX. Latent Period after Catching Cold. X. Prior Diseases. XI. Concomitant Diseases. PAGE 15 17 20 20 22 23 24 25 38 42 42 SYMPTOMS. XII. Inflamed Joints and Muscles. XIII. Pain and Swelling. XIV. Chills and Sweats. XV. Urine. XVI. Pulse. XVII. Blood. XVIII- Other Symptoms. 46 47 48 50 53 53 55 REMEDIES. XIX. Prior Remedies. XX. Veneseftion. Leeches. Sudorificks. Salines. Antimony. XXI. Cinchona. Dr. Fothergill. Sir Edward Hulse. Dr. Morton. 59iv CONTENTS. SECT* PAGE XXII. Cinchona given for 43 years. ... 74 XXIII. On what Day of the Fever. JQ XXIV. At what visit. 7(3 XXV. Form and Dose of Cinchona. 77 XXVI. Fatal Cases. Fermenting Wort. yg XXVII. Difficult Cases. 106 XXVIII. Did Cinchona do injury ? 12L XXIX. Salutary Effects of Cinchona. Conclusion ••• 124 XXX. Additional Case. 134 CORRESPONDENCE with 1. Sir George Baker, Baronet, M. D. 141 Letter of Inquiry. * 142 2. Dr. Hf.berden. 145 3. Dr. Saunders. 347 4. Dr. Will an. - 148 5. Sir Lucas Pepys, Baronet, M. D. 150 0‘. Dr. Lettsom, 151 7. Sir Walter Farauhar, Baronet, M. D. .153 . S. Dr. Aikin. 155 TABLES. Table I. Cases of Rheumatick Fever. 156 II. Ages of Rheumatick Patients. 174 III. Rheumatick Season. 175 IV. Latent Period after Catching Cold. 176 V. Diseases which preceded and accompanied the Rheumatick Fever. 1/7 VI. Inflamed Joints and Muscles. 178 VII. The Pulse. 178 II. NODOSITY OF THE JOINTS. 181IV* V PREFACE To the First Edition qf 1805. IN former publications, the Author has attempted to discover some of the most important properties of the poisons which produce variolous, typhous, scar- let, and other infectious Fevers; in order to determine, on scientifick principles, by fads, and by conclusions deduced from them, according to what laws they are propagated; and by what means the mi- sery and destruction occasioned by these mortal enemies of mankind might be effectually prevented.* * As persons unaccustomed to scientifick inquiries generally and very unjustly condemn them, from an opinion that they are useless speculations, it may be proper to state that entirely on this foundation there was established the Small-Pox Society of Chester in 1778, for six years; the Fever Wards of the Chester Infirmary in 1 JS'l, for 2Q years ; the House of Recovery BI [ I ^ PREFACE. The History of diseases which now solicits the reader’s attention is of an humbler kind, and the benefit which may at Manchester in 17<)6; and, since that time, at London, Liverpool, Edinburgh, Newcastle, Dublin, Cork, and many other towns. These Institutions will supply such numerous fads as must at length effectually correct the inveterate and pernicious errors which had universally prevailed. They prove beyondall controversy, that the Regulations deduced from these Principles can exter- minate the Small-Pox and the Typhous Fever from every place where they are pundually executed. There cannot be a doubt that exaftly the same Regulations would immediately exterminate, the Pestilential Fever of the West-Indies, America, Spain, &c. They might -1 • ' > .1 ■ # ^ have entirely prevented the late fatal calamity at Gi- braltar. They may preserve us from the imminent danger, to which all Europe is at present exposed, of receiving this pestilential poison from the various re- gions into which it is widely dispersed. This highly important subject is falsely thought to be exclusively \ if • <«■ J t . medical: it maybe fully comprehended by every per- son of a clear and philosophical understanding, who will attentively consider it. S,ee the Tracts i. ii. and. iv. noted on the last page of l - * i , t . ■this volume Dr. Clark's Collection of Papers on Fever Wards at Newcastle; the Reports of the Society for bettering the condition of tfie Poor, No. xiii.; and Pol. v. Hpp. iii. Proceedings of the Board of Health at Manchester. be iPREFACE. B 2 be expected from it is much more limited. Why Mercury, Antimony, or Bark, are remedies for some diseases; why Ipeca- cuanha has an emetick, and Jalap a ca- thartick quality, no theory, nor even any hypothesis, has explained. We cannot discern any farther connection between cause and effeCt than that the latter fol- lows the former at a certain distance of time, and with a considerable degree of uniformity. However, this circumstance alone cannot hinder the progress of hu- man knowledge. We no more know the reason why an apple falls to the ground by the attraction of gravitation, than why Mercury and Ipecacuanha have certain medicinal qualities. The whole differ- ence lies in the frequency and certainty of events, which ascertain what is the law of nature. Hence may be explained why physicians have been sometimes de- ceived in regard to the efficacy of medi- ernesPREFACE. - cines which they have recommended, without any just suspicion that they intended to deceive others. When con- clusions are formed from solitary or even a few cases, the danger of mistakes may be clearly understood. But the inference is totally different when many examples concur to prove the efficacy of a remedy. It is for this reason that medical faCts, when distinctly discovered, become ex- tremely valuable. If many of a similar kind are brought collectively into one view, conclusions may be deduced from them by induction with a probability approaching to certainty. Physicians at first obey the instruc- tions of their predecessors, which by de- grees they learn to correct or confirm by their own observations. Even in the same disease, patients, when compared with each other, have some variety of symptoms, or of constitution. One casePREFACE. 5- is seldom exa&Iy similar to others. In the practice of physick, judgment and discernment are requisite to apply the experience of former to succeeding pa- tients : but remote analogies are seldom required, or warranted. When, there- fore, a new method of treating disorders is recommended, a particular explanation will be required, in order to justify a phy- sician who makes any material innovation. With as close an imitation as possible I at first followed the successful experience of others, and, next my own. However, I have never been devoted to any medi- cal theory, or indeed to any general rule of practice, farther than either was war- ranted by success. With all possible at- tention I have constantly observed what remedies or regimen appeared to relieve or aggravate diseases. By diligently and implicitly following the juvantia, and care- fully avoiding the ladentia,independently ©fpreface. of every speculative opinion or authority whatever, I have been gradually led to practise what I hope will be found im- proved methods of treating some diseases. When I Observed them to be successful, I gradually deviated more and more from the usual remedies. Since the commencement of my pro- session in the year 1767,1 have constantly recorded, in the patient’s chamber, a full and accurate account of every important symptom, the remedies which were em- ployed, and, when an opportunity of- fered, the effects which they produced. These clinical cases have been always written in Latin, as being most concise and expeditious, and as best adapted to coriceal the complaints, especially fe- male complaints, that are confidentially revealed to a physician. The manner in which these cases are written, was acci- dentally published many years ago in thePREFACE. 7 the “ London Medical Observations and “ Inquiries, vol. vi.” It was in the history of a patient ill of an epidemical influenza, communicated in a private letter to the present and published by the late Sir William Watson, M.D. At that time I was sorry to see the case in print, as it seemed of too little importance, and might have too pedanticai an appearance to readers unacquainted with these cir- cumstances. However, on the present occasion, it may answer the purpose of an authentick document, to shew the rea- der on what kind of evidence the follow- ing observations are founded. At that time (in 1774) after I had used this me- thod of recording these histories for above seven years, I first received intelligence from Sir W. Watson, that our venerable Friend the late Dr. HEBERDENhad been long in the habit of writing the cases of his patients in a method somewhat similar. But,PREFACE, But, though both of them were clinical records written in Latin, yet as our plans were separately and independently con- ceived, our mode of executing them, as might be expected, are different from each other. His reports were noted with much greater brevity than mine; as I have been informed both by the late and the present Dr. Heberden. In the form of Tables, the most im- portant fatffs which have occurred during the experience of thirty-five years, (from 1767 to 1801 inclusive) are exhibited at one view, with all the accuracy and fidelity of a single case, if related with equal brevity. However it cannot pos- sibly be expected that every symptom and every remedy of every patient could be noted. But notwithstanding the omissions, many important conclusions may be drawn from the recorded fadts. Silence concerning common symptoms must * ,*»?PREFACE. must not always imply their absence. Considering the urgency of medical du- ties, the experienced practitioner will rather be surprised that so many circum- stances are expressed, than that some are omitted. The seasons and the sexes are always mentioned. A full account of the reme- dies is commonly given. The antece- dent duration of the disease is generally, the age of the patient, the effeCt of the remedies, and the termination of the disease, are frequently, noted. The comparative recurrence of symp- toms, though not fully, will be impar- tially exhibited. The important but difficult inquiry, what is the relative efficacy of medicines, will claim great attention. The inductions from the faCts which have fallen under my observation, cannot always be conclusive, but they shall always be proposed with truth and candour.10 PREFACE. • •* candour. As the original cases are pre- served, the facts maybe verified, if doubts should at any time be entertained con- cerning their authenticity. I fully adopt the following excellent remark of the late Dr. Heberden: * It ‘ is necessary to be upon our guard against ‘ experience itself, when delivered in a ‘ system, the very notion of which seems c to imply, that the fa6ts and observa- * tions are not barely related, but are 4 arranged into some method, and formed 4 into one body, dependent upon what * the compiler takes to be their general 4 cause or nature : and hence arises the 4 great danger of their being misrepre- ‘ sented, in order to make them fit more 4 exactly the several places which are 4 assigned them. The Jews were cofn- 4 manded 44 to build their altar with stone 44 unhewn, and untouched by any tool:” 4 and, in like manner, the best materials 4 ofPREFACE. the 4 of natural knowledge are the plain fa6ts « themselves, just as they come from na- * ture: he who pretends to new model 4 them and polish them, in order to their 4 being adapted more perfe&ly to his 4 system, has utterly polluted them, and 4 made them unfit for the altar of truth.’* In exaCt conformity to this judicious observation, the following 44 Altar of 44 Truth” is constructed with materials taken from nature, unhewn and unpo- lished. There is no misrepresentation in order to make the fa6ts fit the several places assigned them; every circumstance is accurately and faithfully arranged,from cases written in the patient’s chamber. From these clinical Records, some ad- dition might be made to the history of all common and some rare diseases; but * See Dr. Heberden’s Sketch of a Preface designed for the Medical Transaftions, published by the College of Physicians in 1767.PREFACE. the leisure of many years would be required to arrange them in a proper manner. Only two diseases now claim the reader’s attention. 1. A history of the acute Rheumatism, 2. Of the Nodosity of the Joints. I had intended in this publication to have inserted the clinical Histories, 3. of the Herpes, or scorbutick eruptions, 4. of Indigestion, and 5. of Hypochondriacism; because experience seems to have suggest- ed some important improvements in the methods of curing these diseases. But the casesof these three maladies, especially of the two last, are so numerous, that much time will be required to arrange them.* In the mean while, the plan I have form- ed may receive corrections and amend* ments, if it be honoured with intelligent and truly candid criticism. No other * Number of cases of Herpes, 271 ; of Dyspepsia, 383 } and of Hypochondriasis, 914. capPREFACE. 15 can merit notice. Speculative opini- ons can have no weight, when put into the opposite scale against practical experience.• ■ ; 1" • i ■■■■ • ■ i»is . > ■ - . r i • ' ' ‘ * '• r ;yi . • .. ! '. ✓ /OF THE ACUTE RHEUMATISM, RHEUMATICK FEVER. PART FIRST. §. I. HE term Rheumatism, both in Rheunu. common and medical language, includes a great variety of disorders, which ought to be distinguished from each other by different names. After separating from it the Sciatica, Lijmbago, Tic douloureux, Nodosity of the Joints, and other diseases, which some Nosolo- gists have placed under this denomination* there still remain 470 cases of Rheu- matism. This disease is generally classed with fevers, and yet only 170 (about ■OR (ism one-thirdACUTE RHEUMATISM. 1 <5 one-third of them) had any fever. These last are the cases which come under the title of acute Rheumatism, and exclusively form the subject of the following pages. The remaining 300 were cases of chronick Rheumatism. Among the higher and middle ranks of society I have noted and classed the * cases of 10,549 patients, from 1767 to 1801 inclusive.* Others undoubtedly have, been omitted, from the hurry of professional duties, and different causes, but in what proportion cannot be ascer- tained. However as these omissions were accidental, and as they did not - t . 3 There has not yet been leisure to reduce under their proper genera the cases which have occurred since 1S01. 1 have also written clinical reports of a large number of diseases among persons in the lower ranks of life, being the cases of all my in and out patients at the. Chester Infirmary for thirty-one years. Most of them are preserved} but I have not yet had time to execute the laborious task of classing them. exclude-OR RHEUMATICK FEVER. 17 exclude any particular disorder, except what was very slight or desperate, an im- partial view of medical fadts is exhibited; whence true conclusions may be drawn by fair induction. Hence it appears that a sixty-second part of these cases have been Rheumatick Fevers. In the annexed Tables the clinical histories are accu- rately and faithfully stated. The medical readers who possess a truly professional spirit of improvement, will find the ar- rangements of fadts the most satisfactory, interesting, and instrudtive part of these pages. By a comparison of the data with the conclusions, they will have an opportunity thoroughly to examine whe- ther a true foundation be thus laid of pradtical knowledge. §. II. The Rheumatick Fever, in common Described: with most others, begins with chilly fits; c succeededACUTE RHEUMATISM, 18 succeeded by increased heat; frequent pulse; thirst; loss of appetite; and pros- tration of strength. The symptom pe- culiar to this disease is an inflammation of the joints; which often increases to great violence, with swelling, soreness to the touch, and sometimes redness of the skin. It attacks most, if not all the joints of the body in different patients; often two, three, or more joints at a time, leaving some and going to others in succession, frequently returning again to each of them several times during the disease. The muscles are also af- fe£ted, but less generally and less severely than the joints. The patient, being un- able to find an easy place for the diseased limbs, often remains restless and watchful formany days and nights together. Sweats appear spontaneously, or are easily ex- cited by remedies, frequently to a profuse degree. The urine is, at first, high- coloured,* OR RHEUMATICK FEVER. 19 coloured, and afterwards lets fall a red sediment. The blood is generally co- vered with an inflammatory crust. Exposure to coldness or moisture is the chief cause of the acute Rheumatism. This very formidable and extremely painful disease generally continues for many weeks or months; more or less, according to the magnitude of the ma- lady, and the efficacy of the remedies which are employed to remove it. The consequences of this disorder are often painfully felt for many years. On this subjedt the testimony of Sydenham is of great authority. “ Etenim si minus “ perite tractatur” Rheumatismus “ non “ ad menses tantum sed ad annos etiam <c aliquot, immo per omnem adeo vitam u miserum haud infrequenter discrutiat.** Se<5t. vi. cap. v. c l2 §. hi.ACUTE RHEUMATISM, 20 Usual Remedies- ist Table o the cases ex- plained. §- HI- The remedies usually employed in the acute Rheumatism are bleeding by the lancet or leeches, blisters, antimony, su- dorificks, saline medicines, and the warm bath. The principal purpose of this publication is to recommend the Peru- vian Bark, Cinchona, in preference to all other remedies. §• iv. In order to give an accurate and in- strudtive view of the acute Rheumatism, all the most important information which 170 cases have suggested* is exhibited in the form of a Table of 27 columns.* 1st, Males; iid, Females, iiid, Ages, ivth and vth, Dates of the first visit, and when the disease commenced; in order to dis- * See Table I. cover21 OR RHEUMATICK FEVER: cover the most unhealthy season of the year in regard to this disease, vith, the causes of Rheumatism, viith, Latent period, which notes the hours or days which had elapsed between the time when the patient was exposed to the cause of the Fever, and the commence- ment of it. viiith, The diseases which preceded the Rheumatism. ixth, The diseases which accompany it. In the next seven Columns the Symp- Symptoms . i-ii ,1 rr-ii • • . Rheumatism toms are described; as, xtb, The joints and muscles afTedted with rheumatick inflammation, xith, Pain and Swelling, xiith, Chills and Sweats, xiiith, Appear- ance of the Urine, xivth, The Pulse, xvth, the Blood, xvith, Other symptoms not comprehended under the preceding heads. The next ten Columns contain -the £fmedies of f Rheumatism remedies which were administered. xyiith, The remedies which had been used before I visited22 ACUTE RHEUMATISM, Male and Female pa tients. I visited the patient, xviiith, Bleeding by the lancet; xixth, by leeches, xxth, Sudorificks. xxist, Saline medicines, xxiid, Antimony, xxiiid, Warm Bath, xxivth, The Peruvian Bark given ; on what day of the disease ; xxvth, on what day after I first visited the patient; xxvith, in what dose and form,* xxviith, The event, of death or recovery. The following inductions, being found- ed upon the facts noted in the Tables, may be verified by any one who will take the trouble to arrange them under the following heads. §. V. More Males were attacked with the acute Rheumatism than Females, in the * In the first edition there was a column to state what other lemedies were used, which were not con- tained under the preceding heads. But it is now omit- ted, because they were very miscellaneous, chiefly for occasional symptoms, so as to convey no useful infor- mation.OR RHEUMATICK FEVER. 23 proportion of 99 of the former to 71 of tiie latter, or nearly as 4 to 3;* probably because men are more exposed to cold and rain than women, and because their food and drink are more inflammatory. On my communicating this observation to a very intelligent physician, (Dr. Cogan,) who had resided for several years at Amsterdam, he made the following re- mark: ‘ What confirms this idea is that in ‘ Holland the Rheumatism among Fe- ‘ males is comparatively seldom ; though 6 the air is extremely moist. They are ‘ much more domesticated than in this ‘ country, and their dress is much warmer.’ §. VI. The annexed Tablesf exhibit an ac- Ages of pati. entsinRheu* curate statement of the ages of 63 pa- matism. * See Table 1. Columns i. and ii. f See Table I. Column iii. and Table II. tientsACUTE RHEUMATISM, 24 tients affedted with the acute Rheuma-* tism. It will from them appear to attack both older and younger persons than what is commonly supposed. Hence we learn that the acute Rheumatism affedted all ages from 5 to 72 inclusive; more commonly from 6 to 30, but most fre- quently from 16 to 20. §. VII. At what sea* In order to discover at what season of son most Rheumatism the year this disease was most to be ap- prehended, I have in the following Tables* noted the dates both of my first visit, and, when mentioned, of the com- mencement of the Fever. As far as these fadls are conclusive, it is manifest that this Fever is most frequent in the five cold months of December, January, February, March, and April, in which I first visited 84 patients, and 86 f See Table I. Columns iv. and v. and Table III. illOR RHEUMATICK FEVER. 25 in the other seven warmer months. Out of 150 cases, in which the date of the commencement of the acute Rheumatism is noted, 75 happened in the former, and 75 in the latter, period. It is evident, therefore, that in the cases here recorded the colder were more liable to it than the warmer seasons in the proportion of 7 to 5. But no part of the year is exempt , l from this malady. It is most common and dangerous in cold countries, but sometimes appears in the warmest. §. VIII. t It is generally known that the acute causes of Rheumatism Rheumatism, and many other, especially inflammatory, diseases, are occasioned by catching cold. For this reason, we can- not be too minute and diligent in our endeavours to investigate the circum- stances in which this enemy produces suchACUTE RHEUMATISM, 2 6 such injury to mankind. It should be premised, that catching cold is here ex- clusively applied to the cause of disease, and not to the effedl, which is the disease itself. This error is often committed, not only by the vulgar, but by all ranks of society. Thus a person affedted with a Coryza, a Cough, and even a Fever, says? “ I have a cold.” Such equivocal ex- pressions must be carefully excluded from medical language. I was always fully aware of, so as to guard against, such mistakes. But farther, patients often conclude that they have caught a cold, from some unknown cause, j udging merely from the effect. I very rarely omitted to inquire the reason why such a cause was suspected, and did not insert it in my notes, unless I thought it probable. In 65 cases,“f Rheumatism is ascribed to having caught cold. The following cir- f See Table I. Column v. cumstances27 OR RHEUMATICK FEVER. cumstances are specified in what manner the patient had been exposed to coldness in 23 instances. Acute Rheumatism is ascribed, 1st, to cold water poured on the head, shoul- ders, and breast; 2d, to exposure to coldness when in a sweat; 3d, to a damp bed ; 4th, to a damp room ; 5th, to a damp shirt; 6th, to lying on the ground; 7th, to being wet to skin ; 8th, to tra- velling in a hard frost; 9th, to frost and snow; 10th, to being wet to skin twice; 11th, to a damp house; J2th, to being wet to skin with sleet; 13th, to dancing; 14th, to wading in the river; 15th, to wet feet; 16th, to walking in the fields after dancing ; 17th, to being wet j 18th, to change from worsted to cotton stock- ings ; 19th, to exposure to cold air when sweating; 20th, to wading for half a day; 21st, to wet leet; 22d, to a damp bed after dancing; 23d, to sitting in a current of28 ACUTE RHEUMATISM, of air after walking to excite sweat. It is observable that in 20 out of 23 exam- ples, dampness or moisture is particularly- mentioned or implied. But a fair and accurate proportion of mischief to be apprehended from dry and from moist coldness, may not be exhibited by these fadts. Moisture being more clearly and manifestly discoverable, such notices are much more frequently recorded in these clinical cases. Though dry coldness may be much less danger- ous than moisture, yet as persons are far oftener exposed to it in the common occurrences of life, and in circumstances which are less suspedted, and very difficult to avoid, many more diseases may pro- bably be produced by the former than the latter cause. Moisture produces coldness from two causes. 1. A liquid conducts heat more quickly than air. 2. It generates cold- ness2 9 OR RIIEUMATICK FEVER. ness by evaporation. Is there some other more morbid quality in moisture than merely the production of cold ? Are coldness and moisture more injurious when partial than general ? For what length of time must these causes be applied in order to produce disease, when the body is at rest? and how much longer when in adtion ? These periods would vary considerably according to different constitutions. But these interesting questions might be investigated so as to ascertain the law of nature, by accurate reports of both affirmative, and negative, fadts, to a very useful degree of precision. Some ingenious Physicians and Philo- sophers have doubted whether our ideas of catching cold are well founded. To prove that the common is the true opinion, it appears important to publish such fadts as I have witnessed and recorded relative to this disease. They will best discover whenceACUTE RHEUMATISM, so whence the danger may be apprehended, and how avoided. But lest a wrong inference should be deduced from these fafts, it will be proper to remark that persons most liable to acute Rheumatism, and other inflammatory diseases, from catching cold, are not, on that account, to seclude themselves from fresh nor even cold air. This objetf: is so highly important to the safety of mankind, that the reader will, I hope, excuse an illustration of it by observations upon another disease produced by the same cause. During the whole period of my observations in the Chester Infir- mary, I have often wondered how few patients, even out patients, were attacked with the pulmonary Consumption, though a large proportion of them were daily ex- posed to all inclemencies of the weather. Persons in the middle and higher ranks of life, who dwell in dry and comfortable houses,OR RHEUMATICK FEVER. 31 houses, and arc but seldom exposed to cold or rain, are much more frequently afflicted with this mortal malady. These facts are recorded in regard to both my Infirmary and private patients; but I have not had leisure to arrange them, so as to determine accurately the propor- tions of phthisical patients, in each class of people. However the justness of this conclu- sion depends upon another important question. For many years I have been fully aware that the opinion which generally prevails that Phthisis, or the pulmonary consumption, proceeds from Scrophula is erroneous. We hear of scrophulous con- stitutions, scrophulous ulcers, &c. with such a general, vague, and indiscriminate signification, as to afford no useful dis- tinction of diseases. For this reason I have been particularly attentive to faCts which32 ACUTE RHEUMATISM, which might determine this important question by clinical observations. To bring this question fairly to an issue, I will quote the description of Scro- phula in the words of a very intelligent and judicious Surgeon.- It perfectly corresponds with the definitions of all the Nosologists. “ Scrophula begins with “ indolent, somewhat hard, colourless “ tumours; which at first chiefly affect “ the conglobate glands of the neck, but. “ in process of time, the cellular mem- “ brane, ligaments of the joints, and even “ the bones themselves.” He afterwards observes that w the complaint always first “ shews itself by some affections of the “ Lymphatic system.” Bell on Ulcers, p. 37^, 381. No case ought in my opinion to be denominated Scrophulous, but what ex- hibits such pathognomonick symptoms. To determine by observation what connection really exists between PhthisisOR RHEUMATICK FEVER. 33 and Scrophula, I have attentively exa- mined, among the clinical cases which I have recorded, how often the same patient was aflfedted with both these diseases. Out of the 10,549 patients before mentioned, 827 had Phthisis, and 71 Scrophula. But in so large a number, only four had both diseases. Hence it appears that there were 823 cases of Phthisis without Scrophula, and 61 cases of Scrophula without Phthisis. May we not hence fairly conclude that these four instances should be ascribed to a casual concurrence, rather than any natural connection whatever between the two diseases ? In 1777, I selected 144 cases of Phthisis which had then fallen under my observation, in order to determine various important circumstances relative to that fatal English malady. But after d I hadacute rheumatism, I had made considerable progress in this inquiry, I found the subject too melan- choly, and could not assume resolution to proceed in this investigation. Among many other subjefts of these researches, I had endeavoured to discover the cause of Phthisis in 77 of these patients. Only one single patient had Scrophula. But, in 28 instances, it was ascribed to catching cold. It may be observed that Scrophula must be known whenever it exists, or has exist- ed, from its tangible and visible tumours and ugly scars ; and from the bad cha- racter it has obtained in the world. But, on the other hand, Phthisis is very often occasioned by catching cold in so secret a manner as not to be known nor even sus- pected by the patients themselves. It is true that there is some similitude between the appearance of tubercles in the lungs in Phthisis, and of the inflamed lymphatick glands of the neck in Scro- phula.OR rheumatick fever. 35 phula. But these tubercles are not In- flamed lymphatick glands, nor a disease of the lymphatick system. However, this “ appearance” may probably have occasioned the erroneous notions which have so generally prevailed in the medical world. Among patients who are between puberty and old age, when life is in every respect the most valuable, a very large proportion of the fatal cases who solicit medical advice (perhaps in this country even one half) die of Consumptions. From 12 to 50 years old, but chiefly from ] 5 to 30, were I found the ages of phthisical patients; with very few excep- tions below or above that time of life. i The most fatal age was 23. Of the 144* cases, 8b were females and 58 males; being nearly in the proportion of 3 to 2. The peculiar circumstances of the sex will in part account for this difference. d 2 Of \ACUTE RHEUMATISM) 36 Ot these patients seven were preceded by amenorhcea; six commenced during pregnancy, and ten after parturition. Let us seriously refledt how melancholy is the loss of a wife at this period of life. It is certainly the greatest of all calamities that disease can occasion in any family. On all these considerations, I would ear- nestly recommend to English Physicians to discover more accurately that law of nature by which we catch cold, in order to avoid the danger. It is true that, in some instances. Phthisis may have been erroneously im- puted to catching cold; but in more, many more, this cause has been unnoticed. I am persuaded that, in this country,■f in a very large proportion (perhaps even one half) of the consumptive patients, this malady has been caused, or aggravated so as to become mortal, by catching cold. f Phthisis was ascribed to drunkenness in 12 cases; all men, as might ba expe&ed.OR RHEUMATICK FEVER. 37 To many readers such a minute detail of fads might seem superfluous; as not only the most intelligent authors, but even people in general, ascribe inflamma- tory diseases to cold and moisture. The whole of this clinical history is composed of materials taken from nature, and one important purpose it may fulfil will be to confirm opinions maintained by others; and many prevailing opinions undoubt- edly require confirmation. However, such illustrations of common opinions by no means hinder the investigation of other questions which may lead to the advance- ment of medical knowledge. Drunkenness is assigned as another cause of inflammatory Rheumatism. But as only four cases of this kind are pro- duced, the inference may be doubtful, except perhaps in a secondary way: a person who is intoxicated often rashly exposes himself to catch cold. The38 ACUTE RHEUMATISM, The only other cause to which this disease is attributed is a strain : a gentle- man had fallen off his horse, which occa- sioned violent pain in the muscles of his side. No rheumatick Fever was pro- duced; nor could the disease be classed with chronick Rheumatism, as it was of short duration. This case (No. 4) and another rather appertaining to Gout than Rheumatism (No. 103) are placed in the Table only with a view to shew the difficulty of classing diseases, and to ex- plain by what gradations they vary from each other. All doubtful cases, except in these two instances, thus introduced by way of illustration, are rejected from, the Tables, and form no part of our pre- sent inquiry. §. IX. Latent pc- After the curious and instructive expe- riod qfter Cold. riments of SANCTORiuson the insensible perspiration.39 OR RHEUMATICK FEVER.' perspiration, it was long the prevailing hypothesis that cold and moisture occa- sioned disorders by checking this perspi- ration. For some time this opinion has been relinquished, without the substitu- tion of one more plausible in its place. It may reasonably be expedited, and it is greatly to be wished, that medical science should be able to reduce this important subject to a rational and true Theory founded upon fadts; whence con- clusions might be deduced on philosophi- cal principles. But, till this very difficult and desirable point shall be accomplished, it will be of considerable advantage with as much accuracy as possible to deter- mine what are some of the laws by which this great enemy attacks mankind. For some years I have colledted fadts as opportunity offered, to ascertain what length of time elapses between exposure to coldness and the first symptoms of disease.ACUTE RHEUMATISM, disease. This I shall denominate the latent, period, being analogous to what I have called the latent period of infectious distempers. On this occasion I shall confine myself to investigate what is the latent period of the acute Rheumatism.* Out of 20 cases, only three exceed the period between 48 and 72 hours. The shortest time noted is half-an-hour; but I believe that the cause and effect are sometimes connected together without any interval of perfeCt health. The intelligent reader must be aware that this period can very seldom be as- certained with precision. The exposure to cold is often protracted for some hours. In what part of that time it makes a morbid impression upon the constitution, and becomes the cause of Rheumatism, it might be difficult to discover. No investigation of this point has been hi- * See Table I. Column vii. and Table IV. thertoOR RHEUMATICK FEVER. 41 the tnerto attempted. However, the fa<5ts here recorded approximate the truth within such limits as will warrant us to deduce from them very useful informa- tion. It is not to be expected that this law of nature should be completely dis- covered by these few cases so transiently noted. But they may be sufficient to suggest to other observers, as opportunities may occur in practice, how these imper- fect hints maybe confirmed or corrected. When a rule is proposed, exceptions to it will be more easily and obviously noticed, and I hope recorded. One useful purpose of determining what is the latent period between expo- sure to coldness and the subsequent disease, would be to remove all unreason- able apprehensions on this head. Thus * it is not uncommon to hear patients ascribe their illness to a cold they had caught several weeks or months beforeACUTE RHEUMATISM, the symptoms of any malady were per- ceived. The fadts here stated will be conducive to prove the improbability and injustice of such imputations. §. X. In the history of a disease, it may be of importance to know by what maladies it is usually preceded. In regard to the acute Rheumatism I have noted thirty fadts.* Hence we learn, as far as these cases afford instruction, that persons who have been previously affected with the acute or chronical Rheumatism, the Gout, or sore throat, are most liable to suffer at- tacks of this disease, and ought therefore to be particularly careful to avoid expo- sure to coldness and moisture. * See Table I. Column viii.j andTABLf. V. §. X.OR RHEUMATICK FEVER. 43 §. XI. In order to exhibit another illustration concomi- taHt disease* of the nature of this malady, 85 fadts are noted, in which the inflammatory Rheu- matism is combined with other diseases. These amount to so great a variety as 34 genera, which are classed in Table V. in a nosological order. In inflammatory Fevers, it is sometimes very difficult to distinguish when Deli- rium should be denominated a symptom or a separate disease. In the 1st Table there are entered lb cases of Phrenitis; but, on farther consideration of the symptoms, all these patients, or all but one, (No. 91,) appear to have had the Delirium of a rheumatick Fever rather than a Phrenitis. • »i Nine cases are attended with miliary eruptions. The intelligent reader will judge for himself whether Miliaria should be44 ACUTE RHEUMATISM, be classed as a separate disease, or merely as a symptom produced by profuse sweats in the rheumatick Fever. Had the common method of treating this disease by sudorificks been adopted, it is highly probable that many more cases would have been attended with miliary erup- tions, which, according to the opinion of De Haen, now generally adopted by physicians, appear to be rather a pro- dudtion of art than of nature. In six cases, Catarrh, and in three a Cough, accompanied this disease. They proceed both from the same cause with Rheumatism, exposure to coldness and moisture; but no theory nor experience has yet taught us what modification of it produces these different diseases. In many patients there is much diffi- culty to distinguish whether the disease be Gout or Rheumatism. As before in- timated, one such doubtful example is inserted45 OR RHEUMATICK FEVER. inserted in the Table of Cases. But only- three instances are noted where the Gout was combined with acute Rheumatism. Though this Fever be manifestly in- flammatory, and in general bears, and is thought to require, blood-letting in a larger quantity than most other diseases, yet the patient is sometimes in a low faint state, even to the degree of swoon- ing. Six cases of Syncope are recorded, and two more where the degree of lan- guor nearly approached to Syncope. Do not such facts merit more attention than they have obtained ? The symptoms of this Fever have sometimes a daily exacerbation with con- siderable regularity. In four cases they have assumed the type of a quotidian ague. A very learned Physician thought that he had discovered a particular connection between Rheumatism and Dysentery. SixACUTE RHEUMATISM, 4G Six cases of Diarrhoea, and one of Dy- sentery, have occurred to my observation, as connected with Rheumatism. Phrenitis vel Delirium ; Catarrh us, Tussis, et Dyspnoea ; Miliaria ; Diarrhoea, et Dysenteria; Syncope Quotidiana; et Podagra; are the Diseases which have most frequently attended the Rheumatick Fever. The remaining 24 genera which have been noted may be esteemed casual concurrences ; as in 5 of these combina- tions only 2 cases, and in 19 only a single case, are mentionnd. SYMPTOMS. §. XII. inflamed From the arrangement of Fa£ts in the Joints and _ , . . Muscles. Vlth Table, it is manifest that the acute Rheumatism is chiefly seated in the Joints. Out of 170 cases, 154 are noted, in which one or more joints were in- flamed; the enumerated cases amount in47 OR rheumatick fever. in all to 411. No joint is probably ex- empted from this disease ; 15 different joints are particularly specified. However, it is manifest that this in- flammation sometimes attacks the mus- cles. In 63 cases, both the joints and muscles were affedted with the acute Rheumatism at the same time. In 11 cases, the muscles only, and not the joints, were inflamed. It has attacked 13 muscular parts of the body. The number of instances mentioned amounts to 112. §. XIII. Pain is always understood to be a con- stant symptom of Rheumatism. But of the 179 cases* in the 1st Table there are only 106 in which either Pain or Swelling is especially noted ; namely, 75 in-which both occur, 25 in which only pain ismen- * See Table 1st. Column xi, tioned, Pain and Swelling.ACUTE RHEUMATISM, 4-8 tioned, and 6 in which only swelling; but in these 6, pain must have accompanied the swelling. Such omissions, in a number of patients, by no means imply an ab- sence of usual symptoms. In only 3 cases it is expressed that there was no swelling. In general, if not always, the swelling and redness must be understood to de- scribe the inflamed state of the joints, % but not of the muscles. However it is not intended to be denied that this inflam- mation may so far afledl muscles as to make them swell, and even appear red ; but these symptoms, being less evident, and more rare, if they happen at all, are not noticed in the recorded cases, §. XIV. / Chills and *Both Chills and Sweats are usual Sweats. < symptoms of the Rhcumatick Fever. Ot the 170 cases in the 1st Table, there are chills * See Table 1st. Column xiii.OR RHEUMATICK FEVER. 49 ] 04 in which one or both symptoms are mentioned ; namely in 54 both; in 12, chills only; in 38, sweats only. On this point it is proper to warn the reader, that, regarding sweats as more charaCteristick of this Fever than chills, I have been more attentive to mark this symptom. For this reason, it is not to be inferred that sweats occur in more cases than chills. Only 4 cases are noted where there was no chill, and four cases where there was no sweat, and four where there was no Fever. J$ut it must be understood that my reports sometimes express only the present situation of the patient; they do not always describe the whole preceding disease. Often, from hurry or other causes, the word Fever or other general expres- sions have been written instead of par- ticular symptoms. As this has been done without any selection of cases, the in- duction from recorded symptoms will e have50 ACUTE RHEUMATISM, I * have force as far as warranted by the num- ber of fa<5ls. §. XV. urine. One diagnostick mark of the Rheuma- tick Fever is taken from the appearance of the Urine. At the beginning it has a high colour, but afterwards deposits a copious brownish red sediment, like brick dust. In the Gout there is a similar sediment in some degree; but generally it is in less proportional quantity, and of a deeper red colour, tinging the vessel in which it is contained with a pink stain. In Agues there is likewise a considerable lateritious sediment in the urine, which has a nearer resemblance to what appears in Rheumatism than Gout. Perhaps the profuse sweats which accompany the Ague and Rheumatism, and sometimes theOR RHEUMATICK FEVER. the Gout, may be one cause of this co- pious sediment. More of the aqueous and perhaps of some other part of the urine being thus discharged, a larger and probably a different portion of the con- tents may remain undissolved. Chemists have discovered that this red sediment contains the uric acid. If this science could supply an accurate test to discriminate with certainty be- tween Gout, Rheumatism, and Ague, especially the two former, it would be highly valuable: for cases sometimes occur of so doubtful a nature, that a physician cannot always positively de- termine to which disease they belong. This distindtion is very important for the safe treatment and recovery of the pa- tient. Chemistry promises to discover such a decisive test, considering the won- derful ingenuity and zeal with which this useful science is at present prosecuted. e 2 TheACUTE RHEUMATISM, * See Table I. Column xiv.; and Table VII. The appearance of the urine is noted in only 31 cases; in 27 its sediment was red. It is not to be understood that these comprehended all the cases where it thus i appeared. As I did not find it necessary to wait for this change in the urine before Cinchona was administered, this circum- stance has been, for that reason, less fre- quently noticed. It is so generally known that the urine has usually a lateritious se- diment in Rheumatick .Fevers, that more attention has been paid to the exceptions. In three of these cases there was no sedi- ment at the time of observation. The black sediment which appeared in one case denotes blood, a circumstance not usually connected with Rheumatism.* §. XVI. Out:]: of 105 notations of the Pulse, there are 6 below 72 in a minute ; 54- # See Column i. Table XIII.53 OR RHEUMATICK FEVER. (a full half) are from 84, to 107, inclu- sively ; and 30 (two sevenths) from 108 to V26. §. XVII. In 31*f* cases the blood had an inflam- matory crust, which in four was very dense. In three patients it had scarcely any inflammatory appearance, and in two instances none at all. It is noted that one patient . (No. 134- of the first Table) had been bled seven times before I saw him. I had an opportunity to examine the blood last taken; which continued to exhibit an inflammatory crust; yet both the Fever and Inflamma- tion continued with unabated violence. But after these bleedings the Cinchona had such a remarkable good effect, that it seems proper to insert the case. t Table.I. Col. xv. No. Blood.ACUTE RHEUMATISM, No. 134. Mr. W. July 13, mi> having caught cold, has been ill for five, especially for the last two weeks. The joints of his fingers, feet, shoulders, hands, are swelled, red, and painful. Profuse sweats, flatulence ; much rumbling in his bowels; in a laxative state; shortness of breath; faintness; tears. P 96. At first x and soon xx grains of the powder of Bark were taken in mint water every three hours. July 21. He has taken four pints of the mixture which contained 51 ounces of Bark in substance, in eight days. As soon as he began the medicine, there was an immediate abatement of the inflam- mation, flatulence, and langour. In five days his sweats ceased : in six days after he began to take the Bark he was so well recovered as to ride on horseback. No f * complaint remained, but some pain in one hand and one sboulderv InOR RHEUMATICK FEVER. 55 In this case the efficacy of the Bark was very remarkable. Perhaps the fre- quent blood-letting, which had been previously employed, might be condu- cive to this purpose. However it is manifest that such copious evacuations from liis veins did not cure the rheu- matick inflammation, but reduced the patient to extreme languor, debility, and even tears. §. XVIII. Other symptoms, not comprehended other Symptoms. in the preceding Columns of the Table, are few and of little importance. Two cases attended with vomiting are noted, and one where the Rheumatism appeared to be translated to the stomach. But the rarity of such a connexion confirms, rather than confutes, Dr. Cullen’s opi- nion ;ACUTE RHEUMATISM, 55 nion ; that the stomach was not affedfed by Rheumatism, but only by Gout. REMEDIES. §. XIX. One column of the 1st Table is assigned Prior & Remed.es. C011tajn an account of the remedies . which had been employed before I first saw the patient. This intelligence is not generally given; but in the cases which are noted, they appear to have been chiefly blood-letting, tartarised Antimony, antimonial powder, the compound pow- der of Ipecacuanha, and Cicuta, §. XX, venesection. In most of the cases of acute Rheu- matism* which I had visited before I / * See Table I. Column xviii. received57 OR RHEUMATICK FEVER. received the interesting intelligence of the efficacy of the Peruvian Bark in this Fever, blood was taken from the arm hy venesection. Even subsequent to the time when this important information was communicated, I did not neglect this powerful remedy ; though I gradually employed it seldomer and in diminished quantities, as the successful use of the Bark increased my confidence in its sa- lutary efifeCts. ^ For the same reason, leeches were Leeches, much more frequently employed in the former than the latter period of my praCtice. ■f Only 23 cases are noted in which sudorificks. sudorificks were administered, which were composed of opiates generally combined with antimony, sometimes with Ipecacuanha. The omission of so usual and so important a remedy must J See Tablb I. Col. xix. f See Table I, Col. xx. xxi. beACUTE RHEUMATISM, 58 Salines. Antimony. be ascribed to the same reason as the neglect of letting blood by the lancet and leeches. Saline medicines were given in 59 cases, as, acetated ammonia, the effervescing draught, and Nitre. § Antimony had been employed not only as a febrifuge and antiphlogistick remedy, but principally with an inten- tion to cleanse the stomach and bowels, as a preparation for the exhibition of the Bark. The Rheumatism was frequently relieved by Antimony, and for some years t I waited for this relief by antimony, bleeding, leeches, and saline medicines, before the Bark was administered. But, for a considerable period of time, after sufficient evacations were obtained, the Bark has been exhibited without any farther delay. The antimonial Powder has been given in 61, and the tartarised Antimony in 34 cases, being 95 in all. § See Table I. Column xxii.OR RHEUMATICK FEVER. 59 V The warm Bath was employed in 11 cases. It is almost superfluous to re- mark that this remedy is chiefly useful in the chronical Rheumatism. Dr. Falconer has published a full and ac- curate account of its efficacy in this disease, from extensive experience, with great candour and judgment. §. XXL It was before intimated (§. III.) that the chief purpose of this clinical History of the acute Rheumatism is to recom- mend the Peruvian Bark or Cinchona as a remedy for this Fever. For several years after the period when I commenced the practice of Physick at Chester,that excellent Physician the late Dr. John Fothergill used annually to retire from the fatigues of his profes- Bath. Cinchona, Dr. Fother- gill. sion,60 ACUTE RHEUMATISM, sion, during about two months in-sum- mer, to Lea-Hall in Cheshire. In this pleasing rural retreat, I had frequently opportunities to enjoy his very impro- ving and entertaining conversation. He allowed me the very important privilege of stating to him the doubts and difficul- ties which often perplexed me as a young physician. With a truly liberal and en- lightened mind he freely and generously communicated to me his opinion and advice, whenever he was thus consulted. In one of these friendly visits I solicited his counsel for a patient ill of a Rheu- matick Fever. He recommended that the Peruvian Bark should be administered. At this advice I expressed great surprise ; that it was directly contrary to the mode of treatment which I had been taught by the most judicious and learned Au- thors and Professors; and that I had always understood4 as » OR RHEUMATICK FEVER. Ol understood the Bark to be highly im- proper in all inflammatory disorders. To my objections he made this reply : 4 When I was a young physician, being c twice called out of my bed to visit pati- ‘ ents in a frosty night, I caught a very 4 severe rheumatick Fever. By the ad- 4 vice of my medical brethren I had been 4 blooded repeatedly and largely, even to 4 70 ounces. My disease yet remained 4 unsubdued, and my blood still exhibited 4 an inflammatory crust. Hence I was 4 convinced that the method of curing 4 this Fever by such copious evacuations 4 was erroneous. Soon after my reco- 4 very, I was desired to visit a patient 4 ill of an acute Rheumatism. At my 4 request Sir Edward Hulse, at thatSirEdwari 4 time the most eminent physician in 4 London, was consulted. He proposed 4 that we should order the Peruvian 4 Bark. I gladly agreed to the proposal,62 ACUTE RHEUMATISM, % 4 as I thought there were several analo- * gies between an Ague and a Rheuma- ‘ tick Fever. In both diseases* the urine ‘ lets fall a similar lateritious sediment. * In intermittent, as well as Rheumatick ‘ Fevers, the blood when let is covered 4 with an inflammatory crust. Both of 4 them are accompanied with profuse 4 sweats. The pain and fever of Rheu- 4 matism have certain periodical, though 4 not quite regular, paroxysms and re- * missions. 4 I nth is consultation with Sir Edward ‘ Hulse, the Bark was given with such * manifest advantage, that I have ever 4 since adopted thepraCticein thisdisease; 4 and recommend it to you in spite of 4 all medical authorities to the contrary.’ To enquire into the origin and-pro- gress of the practice of giving.the Pe- ruvian Bark in the acute Rheumatism, will be curious and instructive. InOR RHEUMATICK FEVER. 4 inteftines, In Dr. Richard Morton’s Treatise Dr.Morton, on Fevers, the IXth Chapter describes the Proteiform nature of Agues. After explaining that the poison of intermit- tent Fevers was often tlie cause of he- micrania and apolexy, he says, * Centies observavi Colicam Ventriculi, 4 vel Intestinorum, Pleuridem acutissimam 4 etverespasmodicam, Rheumatismumuniver- * salern, vel particularem, Febrem Scarlati- 4 nam, Erysipelatosam cum symptomatis 4 Pathognomonicis intensissimis, ab expansione 4 explosiva spirituum hoc veneno nimis irri- 4 tatorum, orta fuisse. At ista symptomata 4 st at is periodis redibant; Urina reddebatur, 4 quahs in Febribus Intermittentibus appa- 4 rere solet: Et has febres, cum vel sponte sua 4 vel arte coadlce larvas deponunt, C.hina- 4 china cito semper, et feliciter curare sole o' Morton, C i. p. 83. 41 have an hundred times observed that 4 the Colic of the stomach or of theACUTE RHEUMATISM, ‘ intestines* that the acutest spasmodic)*. ‘ Pleurisy, that general or local Rheu- 4 matism, that Scarlet Erysipelatous 4 Fevers with the strongest pathognomo- ‘ nick symptoms, were produced by an ‘ explosive expansion of the spirits irri- * tated by this poison. These symptoms 4 returned at stated periods. The urine 4 was like what is voided in Intermittents. 4 These fevers either spontaneously or by 4 remedies drop their mask ; when I cure 4 them soon, constantly and happily with 4 Cinchona.’ The accuracy of this reasoning, and the justness of such ideas, there is no oc- casion to consider farther than belongs to the present subject. An useful disco- very may sometimes result from error. Many passages might be quoted from Morton, which prove that he freely and successfully exhibited Bark in Rheuma- tism ; but a few in an abridged form may beOR RHEUMATICK FEVER; be sufficient to establish the truth of this remark. 4 Tinctor Pannorum in vico ditto White- 4 Cross-street, a frigore fcepiiis fusceptOy 4 dolore Rheumatico fere universal,i, per 4 ornn.es artus hinc inde versatili correptus; 4 Ubi prce gradu doloris Spasmodici Deli- 4 quium scepenumeroperpessusy devitd despe- * rare ccepisset, tandem me advocavit. Cum 4 autem observassem XJrinam profunda rube- 4 dine tinttam, a'eri expositam sedimentum *• lateritium deposuisse; atque ab adstantibus 4 narratum esset, Dolores statis periodisy 4 singulis scil. vel alternis diebuSy augeri 4 solere, atque summd JEgritudine concomi- * tante exacerbari (utut ex Pulsu vel Tem- 4 peramento certa indicia Febris, prce Symp- 4 tomate vehementiy deprebendere baud potu- 4 erim) rite decrevi Spasmos bosce dolorificos 4 or turn suum duxisse venenato ex. Febris 4 Intermittentis Fomite Spiritum animalem 4 adeo irritantey ut at.gradum usque Explo- F 4 sionis66 ' ACUTE RHEUMATISM, A sionis adversus venenum, prcesertim in Pa- * roxysmoy sese expanders moliretur. £>uo- £ circa in prasens dolor um lev amen ^xii. e sanguinis e brachio illico detrabendasjussiy * atque post intervallum sex horarum Vomi- c torium Antimoniale mitius propinandum; ‘ quopadlo Spasmi derepente minui cceperunt: ■ Ut autem Morbi fundamenta penitiis eru- 4 erem gj. Corticis cum guttis aliquot Lau- ‘ dani liquidi lertid vel quartd qudque bora 4 exhibendas jussi; eo modo subaclionem. Ve- 4 neni morbifici moliensy ne Spiritus inde 4 recens irritati novum Paroxysmum redu- 4 cerent. Postquam sesquiunciam Corticis 4 (qui genuinus eo tempore erat ac Vege~ 4 tus) devordssety illico absque quocunque 4 alio Remedio ministratOy a Febre ac 4 Spasm is Rheumatic is liberatusy Urind 4 ac Appetitu derepente restitutisy revaluit 4 /Eger.' 4 Licet post xiv. dies elapsos, quam- 4 primum scil. energia Corticis dejicere cape- 1 rat, denuo recidivationem Rheumatism i 4 perpessusOR RHEUMATICK FF<VER. 67 * perpessus sit, qua ceque facile Cortice, £ post Phlebotomiam, repetito (nullo alio « Medicamento exhibito) brevt sonata erat> * uti Us accidere sokt, qui Febris Intermit- * tentisrevirescentidajjiciunturT. i. p. ‘ A Dyer in White-Cross street, having ‘ frequently caught cold, was attacked 4 with almost an universal rheumatick 4 pain wandering through all his limbs. * After he had frequently fallen into ‘ a Syncope, and had begun to de- 4 spair of his life from the violence of * the spasmodick pain, at length I was 4 consiilted. When I had observed that 4 his urine was of a deep red colour, and 4 on exposure to the air deposited a late- ‘ ritious sediment ; and was informed by 4 his attendants that his pains increased 4 at stated periods every day or every 4 other day, and that the exacerbations 4 were accompanied with the greatest 4 anxiety ; I announced that these pain- f 2 4 fulACUTE RHEUMATISM, c ful spasms originated from the poison of 4 intermittent Fevers.’ 6 Wherefore Ior- 4 dered 12 ounces of blood to be taken 4 from the arm to relieve the present pain; * and after an interval of six hours l ordered 4 a gentle antimonial vomit. By these re- £ medies the spasms soon began to abate. But, that I might perfectly cure the dis- 4 order, I ordered a drachm of Bark with a 4 few drops of Laudanum to be given every < three or four hours. By these means 4 I intended to destroy the morbifick poi- 4 son, lest the spirits again irritated should 4 excite a new paroxysm. After he had 4 taken an ounce and a half of fresh good 4 Bark, immediately, without any other 4 remedy, he recovered from the Rheu- 4 matick Fever and spasms. The natural * urine and appetite returned, and the 4 patient was restored to health. Butin a 4 fortnight, after the energy of the Bark 4 had begun to fail, he again suffered a 4 relapseOR RHEUMATICK FEVER. 69 4 relapse of the Rheumatism, which, after * venesection, was cured with equal faci- 4 lity by the Bark, without the aid of any * other remedy ; as happens to those who * are affli6led with the relapse of an in- 4 termittent Fever.’ I was not a little delighted to discover by what traditional authority this prac- tice had been transmitted from one phy- sician to another, as clearly appears in the following history. In Morton’s Treatise on Fevers, and the ixth Chapter above quoted, the 20th Case is intitled 4 An Ague long con- ‘ cealed under the mask of a pain of the 4 breast which was in reality rheumatick.* The symptoms and remedies of this case are so various that it would be tedious and uninstruCtive to quote or read them all. He adds, * Hoc patio, dotie et argute delirans, 4 quippe falsa principia poncns, et apparent!- 4 bus/ 70 acute rheumatism, c bus Symptomatis deceptus, Mgr am ^ Febre, Vigiliisy Dehriis ac dolore pene confeEiam * ^ Ora fauces duxeram, Febre, ' ■ tidianis et stalls periodicis Par obey smis jam ‘ tandem typum ac genium suuin palam pro- 1 dente, suspicatus sum Fermentum Febrile c Venenat'um delitescens, Spiritibus itnpH- ‘ citum, Symptom at i huic dolorifco admbdhm c molesto, ahsam pneebuisse. Quocirca (an- * nueiite Cl. Collega jD. jD. Hulsio, qui ‘ mecum in consilium vocatus est) ad nisnm * Spirifuiim (quern causam esse dolor is de- 1 prehendi) minuendum, die tertio AjiriHs’ 1690, 1 Ven&secHonem iteriim in brdchio c celebraiidam jiissi; et, ad seminium verte- * ndtum delendum, §kij*. Corlic. Peruv. 6 cum eequalibus parlibus Sacchari albi com- * 'mixti, partitis 'vicibus, sc. gij. quanta - quaque bora exhibendns, Pah n um \Va I - f licum Oleo Palmitis illitum ad partem * aff'cBam caltde afplicanduih: Et in Lan- * guori's relevfltionem Cochl. iv. Uf/ v, Jn- ‘ bpii,71 OR RHEUMATICK FEVER. 4 Japii cardiaci ad libitum sumendad 4 Hi see 4jinitis, die quinto, -prater spem ami corum, 4 aut meam, conspexi JEgram dirugerov, pla- 4 cide dormientem, hilar cm, vegetam, * symptomatis universis, et dolore ipso pene * liber at a?nd 1'. i. p. 24-3. 4 In this manner, learnedly and 4 shrewdly erring, by trusting to false * principles, and being deceived by ap- 4 parent symptoms, I had brought myi 4 patient almost to the jaws of death, 4 being worn down by her fever, watch- 4 fulness, delirium, and pain ; until, the 4 Fever betraying its type and nature, 4 by coming every day at stated periods, 4 I suspected that the lurking febrile 4 poison was the cause of this most pain- 4 ful symptom. Wherefore (with the 4 consent of my celebrated Colleague Dr. 4 Hulse, who was called into consulta* 4 tion with me on this case) I ordered 4 blood again to be taken from her arm 4 on72 ACUTE RHEUMATISM, 4 on the 3d of April,’ 1690, 4 to diminish 4 the violent efforts of the spirits which 4 I discovered to be the cause of the pain: ‘ and to destroy the febrile poison, xii £ drachms of the Peruvian Bark mixed 4 with an equal quantity of white sugar ‘ were divided into doses of 2 drachms 4 each, to be taken every four hours; 4 and a piece of Welsh flannel besmeared 4 with palm oil was applied warm to the 4 affedted part. A cordial Julep was oc- 4 casionally given. On the 5th day after 4 these remedies had been administered, 4 far beyond the hopes of her friends and 4 my own I beheld our patient without 4 Fever, cheerful,lively, sleepingplacidly, 4 nearly quite free from pain and all other 4 complaints.’ In this manner I discovered, very highly to my satisfaction, by what traditional authority, supported by experience, in spite of the powerful influence of a con- traryOR RHEUMATICK FEVER. 73 trary hypothesis, the benefit to be derived from the Peruvian Bark in the acute Rheumatism had been preserved from oblivion. Morton, Hulse, and Fo- thergill, were Physicians of uncom- mon abilities. It may not be improper to remark that this tradition seems to have had (as might be expedted) more influence in London than any other place. Sir John Pringle in his Observations on the Dis- eases of the Army, p. 16(5, says, 4 Some 4 physicians have ventured to give the 4 Bark in acute Rheumatism (after plen- 4 tiful bleeding) as soon as a sediment 4 appeared in the water; though some « degree of Fever remained, and the pains 4 were still considerable. I have had ‘ some success myself in giving it so early, 4 but have not seen cases enough to re- * commend the practice to others.’ §. XXII,14 ACUTE fcHEtTM 4TISM, 3a;k given for 43 years. §. XXIL The first case of the rheumatick Fever in which I prescribed the Peruvian Bark,, on the recommendation of Dr. Fother- gill, appears to have been No. 13, in August 1769, being now (1812) 43 years ago. The favourable opinion which I entertained of this singular practice on such respectable authority, was soon con- firmed by my own experience of its effi- cacy. During the long period of time which has since elapsed, in every case of this Fever which appeared proper for the Bark, it has been administered ; at first with great caution, after sufficient evacu- ations of the blood-vessels, stomach, and bowels. Taught by attentive observation and successful experience, I gradually employed this remedy with more and more freedom ; which was attended with still more manifest proofs of its safety and efficacy. It75 OR fcHEUMATICK FEVER. It will be proper first explicitly to state all the fatfs, and then to consider what useful inferences may be fairly deduced from them. By reference to the first Table the rea- der will be fully informed what remedies had been employed before the Bark was exhibited. He is to understand as noted in xviii, xix, xx, xxi., xxii, xxiii, Columns, in what cases bleeding by the lancet and leeches, sudorificks, salines, antimo-r ny, and the warm Bath, were ordered previous to tkeadministration of the Bark. Being solicitous to communicate all the information which experience has suggested on this interesting subject, I have stated in one view, 1st, the day of the access of the acute Rheumatism inclusive from the commencement of the disease when the Bark was first ex- hibited; and, 2d, on what day this medi- cine76 ACUTE RHEUMATISM, f Column xxvi. * See Table I. Col. xxy. cine was taken, after I first visited the patient. §. XXIII. On what Of the 170 cases in the first Table, in day of the Fever; 77 it is noted on what day of the Fever the Bark was given.* In 39 it was in the first fortnight, from the 1st day to the 15th inclusive: in 25 during the next four weeks, being from the 16th to the 43d day. As to the remaining 13, they rather may be reckoned complaints in consequence of the acute Rheumatism, than examples of the disease itself. §. XXIV. At what In 88 cases it is noted on what day, from my first visit, the Bark was first or- dered. t In 45, or one half, it was ordered on the day when 1 first visited the pa- tient. But it must not be understood ... . , .a thatOR RHEUMATICS FEVER. 11 that it was always administered on the first day. The Bark was seldom given before sufficient evacuations by Antimo- ny, See. had been obtained. This being the direction given to the medical and other attendants, the Bark was seldom taken till the following, and perhaps, in several instances, a later day. In 10 cases it was ordered on the 2d ; in 13 on the 3d ; and in 17 from the 4th ' to the 10th day, both inclusive, after my first visit; in 3 it was ordered later than the 10th day. To all these patients the Y» Bark was generally given on the day it was ordered, as evacuations which were thought sufficient had been previously obtained. §. XXV. It will next be proper to state the form Dose#nd and dose in which the Peruvian Barkor?of baric, was exhibited. These circumstances are fullyacute rheumatism, tillly explained in the 1st table.* Hence It appears that the powder was given in 79 cases, the Decoction in 43, the Infu- sion in 12, and theTindture in 19. The dose of the Powder varied from 5 to 60 grains, and the repetition of this quantity Irom once in 2 to once in 12 hours. But the most common dose was from 10 to 30 grains, and the usual time of repeat- ing it was from every 3 to 8 hours. The Decoction of Bark was given from the dose of an ounce to an ounce and a half, up to two ounces every 2, 4, 6, or 8 hours. The Tincture of Bark was ordered in 19 cases, but I believe never till both the Fever and inflammation were gone or much abated. In several cases, the form in which this medicine vvas administered is not noted. * See Tabxe J. Column xxvii. From1$ OR RHEUMATICK FEVER. From so many circumstances of simU I arity between the Ague and theRheuma- tick Fevers both as to their symptoms and tiieir remedies, some have supposed them to be the same disease. But, among several, it may be proper and sufficient to notice one manifest difference between them. The poisonous Miasms which exhale from stagnant water are well known to be the chief and probably the only cause of Agues; but not of Rheumatick Fevers. In dry situations, where the soil is not even suspedled to be unhealthy, the latter often, but the former never occur. §. XXVI, Physicians have observed that the acute FsUal C);<s Rheumatism is seldom, or never, a fatal disease. This remark may be true, while it remains in its proper seat the muscles and joints, and when not com- bined with other mortal maladies. So farACUTE RHEUMATISM, far the observation is confirmed by my own experience. But out of 170 cases, I have found 12 which had a fatal termi- nation, either by a translation of the in- flammation to the brain, lungs, kidneys, stomach, or some other vital part, or as being found in combination with other diseases. The following Fatal Cases are copied faithfully from my clinical book, with a few omissions of circumstances of less importance. It was my intention to pub- lish the original words ; which, though generally written in haste, with brevity, and in very anxious situations, yet to myself record the fa<5ts with perspicuity and accuracy. However, they may not appear perspicuous to all readers; and mindful of that excellent admonition of Horace, “ Dum brevis esse laboro obscurus “ Jio” I have thought it might be better to print an English description of the symptoms.81 OR RHEUMATICK FEVER. symptoms. Among other purposes which this communication may serve, it will afford the reader an opportunity to com- pare some of the fa<5ts stated in the Tables, particularly the 1st, with some of the original documents, ri ‘ ; I* ’ <•-» '• ■* '■ " • ' • ♦ ' f* ' • r • « ** 5 '* • ' 4 FATAL CASES. 1* A robust man (No. 1.*) employed in country labour had a week before been attacked with a sore throat, for which he had taken a dose of Jalap on the 24th of May. The following day he was seized with a Rheumatick Fever. My first visit was on the 30th, at 9 in the evening. His ankles, wrists, and other joints, were then swelled, painful, and red; his pulse was full and frequent * These numbers refer to the place in the first Table of Cases of Rheumatism. k g miliaryACUTE RHEUMATISM, miliary eruptions, some of them pellucid, on his breast. During the disease, he had two or three times sudden stools; at present flatulence in his bowels, but no Diarrhoea. Eight ounces of blood were taken; it was inflamed. A Julep with Spiritus Mindereri was ordered. At six next morning he was attacked with a violent purging, rattling in his throat, convulsions, and death.” This event happened in 9 hours after my first visit. 2. “ A young Lady of 16, (No. 17.) who had for ten years been subje£t to wandering pains, was attacked by a Rheumatiek Fever, with pain and swel- ling of her hands, feet, &c.; shortness of breath; vomiting of food and drink. Pulse 120. I visited her on the 6th day of the Fever. A blister was applied. A mixture was directed of Ess. Ant. 2§j. » Tinet. Theb. gtt. 40; of which she took 20 drops every 4 hours. On the 10th ' . .. dayOR RHEUM A TICK FEVER. 83 I day of the Fever, and 5th inclusive after I saw her, the swelling of the hands re- ceded ; her breath became shorter, with a cough and spitting of blood, which soon terminated fatally.” The rheu- matick inflammation seems here to have been translated from the joints to the lungs. In this case venesection was probably- employed, though not mentioned. But perhaps the violent vomitings had pro- duced such debility as to discourage any other evacuations. 3. u A man of 18, (No. 24.) liable to convulsions from two years old, and to spasms the last two years, was attacked with chills, heats, sweats, swelled and stiff joints, and delirium. P. 125, and strong. I first saw him on the 4th day of his Fever. He was bled, and took the tartarised antimony. He died of aPhre- nitis on the 5th day of the Fever,” and o 2 theacute rheumatism1, the 2d inclusive after my first, and (as appears) my only visit. 4. “ Mrs. , (No. 68.) Apr. 25. For two years after her Menses ceased, she had suffered head-achs and pain of her limbs. She had been attacked with a cold shaking fit a fortnight ago, ten days ago, and yesterday. Thrush on her tongue and throat. P. 96. Has now pain of her wrists, knees, back. Inf us. et Tinct. Peruv. efferv. 3 or 4 times a day. Gargle. Leeches. Ap. 29. Pain increased. Leeches to the affedled joint gave no relief. James's Powder gr. iv. every 4 hours, with Camph. Julep. Ap. 30. Ant. Powder, gr. vi. Ii.6. Julep. May 3. Blood not inflamed.* Pain of her wrists, ankles, knees, hips, with swel- ling, but no redness. Thrush on her . y ■ * * Tliis blood was taken from ihearm, though the or- der has not been duly entered in my case book.. tongueOR RHEUMATICK FEVER. tongue and throat. P.108. Ant. Pow- der, gr. x. h. 4*. and JuL eff. May 7. P. 96. Vomiting and four stools from the Powder with relief. Sore Throat. Volatile Oil to the throat. The nnlimonial Powder to-morrozv. May 1?. Pain below the left breast, with difficulty of breathing withoutcough. Pain of limbs diminished. P. 96. Thrush. A fur is generally spread over the inside of the mouth. Blood is discharged with the gargle. Breathe mephitich air for an hour four times a day. Drink ferment- ing ivort; and take a cordial effervescing Julep.—She died that evening,’* In this case there is no suspicion that Rheumatism was the cause of death ; but the account is instructive, in shewing that the rheumatick Fever may be com- bined with Typhus and Aphths.8<f ACUTE RHEUMATISM, Renting The Feimienting Wort was unfortu- nately ordered too late in this case; the patient died before it could be pre- pared. Wort has been frequently given for various disorders since it was recoin-? mended by the late Dr. MacBRiDE, in his Experimental Essays. In that work on speculative principles, he has sug- gested more useful improvements in the treatment of Scurvy, and other putrid diseases, than any author of modern, or perhaps any other times. In 1779, my very intelligent friend the late Dr. Dob- son published his Commentary on Fixed. Air. In this volume, p. 55, he inserted the following communication of mine. * I attribute much good effedt to the ‘ following method of giving wort in a 6 fermenting state\ Less than an equal * bulk of wort is drawn from the malt; % * namely, from six pints of malt about * five pints of wort. With a pint of this 4 wort87 OR RHEUMATICK FEVER. 4 wort, a tea-spoonful of yest is well * mixed; the vessel is covered close, and 4 placed near the fire. In less than an 4 hour, it is covered with a white cap of 4 yest, and is drank in that state. I am 4 persuaded that the wort is greatly im- 4 proved by this process. Yest excites in 4 the wort a vinous fermentation, and co- 4 pious generation of Fixed Air; without 4 such addition, it soon spontaneously 4 changes into an acetous state, by which 4 very little Fixed Air is evolved.* The water should not be poured on the malt boiling hot, but when cooled to about 170v; let it be close covered for two hours, then strain it off, and add the yest. As this recommendation of fermenting wort has not been so fortunate as to excite the attention of physicians to what appears to be an important objeft, it may not be improper, on this occasion, to intro- *V duce a farther short explanation. Instead88 acute rheumatism, Instead of quoting the case in Dr. Dob- son s book, I will translate another in which I found the efficacy of the wort was remarkable. ‘ Mrs. , aged 45, May 18, 1779, * alter a fever attended by general pain * and a foetid diarrhoea, was attacked with 4 haemorrhages from the nose, with f many black spots on her body, and at ‘ the end ot her tongue a black vesica- * cation. P. 84. 4 Julep, alk. el acicl. 3'" horis. Respi- 4 ratio aeris mephitici e creta et acido * vitriolico. Cereuisi# music# fermentcs- * centis Ibij. quotidie." ‘ May 20. Many more black spots, 4 some an inch in diameter, over the * whole body. Tongue better, but black t at the tip. Large black blisters on the ' upper gum and lip. But she is better, 6 and the hasmorrhages diminish. ■ = :,!• ■ ; • • :■;* r _ * r Julepum89 OR RHEUMATICK FEVER. ‘ Julepum, Respiratio, et Cetevesiat ut * anteiu ... 4 May 23. The blister and blackness * of the tongue had disappeared two days 4 ago; it is now of a healthy colour. No ‘ tumour of the gum, but it is still livid, 4 and two days ago had frequently dis- 4 charged blood. Thespots are diminished, 4 and look brow'll. For four days she has 4 been gaining strength ; for three days 4 her appetite has improved. She has 4 taken four pints of the fermenting wort 4 every day, but seldom the alkaline and 4 acid juleps; has often respired mephi- 4 tick air. Eat flesh meat yesterday and * to-day. Drink a pint of nine in gruel * daily, the wort, and Julep, efferv. 4May2i. Convalescent. Her tongue 4 and gums are healed. No haemor- 4 rhage for the last three days. The 4 spots are turning brown, and vanishing. 4 Her appetite, strength, and sleep arc 4 restoredso ACUTE RHEUMATISM, 1 restored. Has taken the julep regu- ‘ larly, but no wort for two days. Con* 4 tinue worty Kc. 4 May 30. Has taken the wort regu- 4 larly, but no other medicine for a week. 4 No spots remain, but on her arms. 4 Good appetite. Increasing strength. 4 She soon recovered perfect health.* That a patient in such a very danger- ous and almost desperate putrid disease, denoted by so many unequivocal proofs of a dissolved state of blood, should iir three, and still more in six days, shew dis- tinct proofs of recovery, and in six days more, should be restored nearly to perfect health, (though the remedy was acci- dentally omitted for two days,) are ex- traordinary fadts. On this account I have desired Dr. Falconer, and other medical friends, to compare this account with the original Latin, written and bound into a volume 25 years ago, without the re- % ' motestOR RHEUM A TICK FEVER. £>l motcst expectation that it would ever be published. But, as I have before explained the danger of drawing medical conclusions from solitary or even from a few cases, it will be proper to add, that in 1777 this improved method of giving Wort in a fermenting state occurred to me, and that I have for 35 years ordered it in all putrid diseases, and uniformly with more salu- tary effects than any other medicine. In this form, the yest* is copiously drank at the time it is generating, and while it still remains mixed with the new wort. Some- times a part of the white cap of yest on the surface is added to the wort, and drank in it. In Aphtha.r, and putrid, ulcers of the mouth, I have long employed, and with the most manifest benefit, the fermenting wort as a gargle, sometimes alone, more * Yest has lately been recommended to the publick as a newly-discovered medicine. frequently92 ACUTE RHEUMATISM, frequently with a considerable admixture of yest-, and often mere yest has been ap- plied to the diseased part. By analogy, I have been induced to use fermenting zoort and yest for Scurvy in (hegums, with success; butmyexperiencc of its utility in this disorder is much more limited than in ulcers and aphtha?, as the thought has but lately occurred to me. A full persuasion of the superior effi- cacy of this remedy for putrid disease?, so dangerous in their immediate and re- mote consequences, will be, it may be hoped, a sufficient apology for the irre- gular manner in which the subject is here introduced. 7. “ Aug. 2. A man 25 years of age, (No. 75.) much addicted to luxury and drunkenness, had been ill for a fortnight before he was attacked with a Rheuma- tick Fever. On the second day of it he " hadOR RHEUMATICK FEVER. <93 had chills and heats; no sweat; pain, swelling, and redness of his ankles, knees, &c.; Teachings to vomit; spasms of the stomach. P. 72—96. Mixt. camp ft. cum Tart. emet. gr. ^ h. 4. “ Aug. 3. No relief. Pain and spasms of the stomach; hands, tongue, &c. trem- bles; thirst; yellow fur on his tongue ; no inflammation of his ankles, and but little of his hands and knees. P. 84. Haunt. atheris 3j Spin nitr. dul. jjfs. mixt. camph. $x. h. 4. “Aug. 4. Violent delirium. Apply ten leeches to his temples. Haunt. Camph. gr. vij. Nitr. gr. xx. h. 4. Shave his headr and let it be frequently washed with vinegar. “ Aug. 5. A diarrhoea. Rhab. p. gr. vij. cum Ipec. gr. iij. “ Aug. 8. Ten stools; memory nearly restored; many pellucid miliary erup- tions on his breast, arms, and face. He died this evening.” ThisACUTE RHEUMATISM, This patient seems not to have been bled from the arm; probably because, though a young man, his strength had been exhausted by drunkenness ; his state of extreme debility being denoted by a trembling tongue, hands, &c. and by the yellow fur on his tongue; and because the inflammation had receded from the joints. The Rheumatism was compli- cated with Phrenitis, Miliaria, Diarrhoea, and Gastrodynia. No Bark was given in this fatal case; the stomach and bowels were so much disordered, that it seemed improbable such a medicine would agree with them. No sweat was observed on the second day; but though no farther notice is taken of this ordinary symptom, yet we must not conclude that it did not appear, especially as it is the usual con- comitant or cause of miliary eruptions. 8. ft Mrs.. OR RHEUMAT1CK FEVER. 9i 8. “ Mrs.K—, (No. 81.) aged 29. Feb. 1. A fortnight after a tedious labour, and on the fifth day of a Rheumatick Fever, but on the third day after the Rheuma- tick swellings had receded from the joints, was my only visit to this patient, who resided twelve miles from Chester. Ever since her delivery she has heard a noise like bells, with head-ach. Her Lochia were profuse for a short time, and foetid. She had wandering rheumatick pains before and ever since her lying-in. Sweats. P. 96—86. No sleep but from opium. Pain and lameness of her right hip ever since her delivery. A copious sediment in her urine. Her wrists were swelled two days ago. Wandering words in her dreams. Leeches to her temples. Pulv. Jac. ant. gr. iij. cum Haust. salin. 6,iJ horis. ad movendum sudor cm, vomitum vel dejee- tionem;. Dein Haust. Dec. Peruv. %ifs Pulv.96 acute rheumatism* Pu/v. Peruv. *)j. Satis tart. gr. xv. in ejfcrxf. cum Sued limon. 3 iij. Feb. 3. (by letter.) “ Fever increased for two days. P. 110. Delirious. No rbeumatick pain ; damp skin; many stools. Had taken the James’s powder and saline draughts” only, but no bark. “ Feb. 4. She died.” 9. “ R. C. esq; Jan. 12, 1784* a vigo- rous young gentleman, (No. 01.) after having repeatedly caught cold, was at- tacked by the acute Rheumatism.” His residence was 25 miles from Chester. “ I only saw him on the 0th day of the Fever and next morning. At first he had chills. Ills joints were swelled; a general pain ; lassitude ; perpetual jatf itation ; P. 110 — 120; thirst; furred tongue; much flatulence; blood let to 16 ounces, had a dense inflammatory crust. Take 16 ounces more blood (it was much inflamed.) Take ten grains of James's Antimonial PowderOR RHEUMATICK FEVER. Powder every 6 hours and the camphor Julep, with a saline effervescing addition. Drink imperial and other small liquids plentifully. “ Jan. 13. Symptoms relieved. Only sleeps for ten minutes at a time; P. 96— 90. Pain in his wrists, ankles, knees, right hip ; no sweat; no sediment in the urine; jactitation. Pulv. antinionialis Jac. gr. x. h. 6. cum Haust. e Mixt. Camph. et Spir. Mind. “ Jan. 14. (By letter.) Fromtheanti- monial powder he vomited thrice, and had 4 stools. Short sleeps. Delirious, “ spits all about the bed, and whistles j‘* skin moist this morning; yesterday even- ing no rheumatick pain ; now pain and swelling of his right hand. P. 120—112. He died;” but the time is not noted. Only 32 ounces of blood are mentioned to have been taken from his arm; but from various circumstances I am con- h vincedi)$ ACUTE RHEUMATISM, vinced that orders for future venesections were provisionally given, which there is no doubt were punctually executed by an intelligent Surgeon-Apothecary who attended him. 64 Perpetual jadtitation” generally proceeds from anxiety about the pnecordia, and denotes great danger. No Bark was ordered, nor is it probable that it would have faved the patient’s life. Besides, at that time, 28 years ago, I never administered this remedy till proper evacuations had produced a considerable abatement of the more violent symptoms. 8. 4< During the last 12 years, Mr. W. (No. 103.) had been attacked with four Paroxysms of Gout or Rheumatism, oc- casioned by habits of intoxication or by catching cold. At my only visit lie had been ill of such a Paroxysm for a fortnight. Four days after the com- mencement of these pains he had been wet with rain on Tracth-Mawr; and, in thatOR RHEUMATICK FEVER. 99 that state, had travelled a long journey. Frequent sickness. P. 120. Olten deliri- ous; debility; a little pain of his hands and feet; voids little urine. R JEtheris nitr. Spir.Nitr. Dulc. a 3 ij. Aqua Mentha giiifs. Conf. Card. *j. M. Capiat %j h. 4. Delude Dec. et Tinct. Peruv. h. 4. He died” soon; probably before any medi- cine, certainlybeforethe Bark, was taken. In classing these clinical cases, as the medical reader will be aware, doubts have occurred whether the disease should be denominated Gout or Rheumatism, the symptoms being sometimes equivo- cal. Though I have inserted this case as an example of Rheumatism, yet it was more probably the Gout. The patient had long lived freely as the landlord of the principal inn at Wrexham. Traeth- Mawr, where he was exposed to rain, is in Merionethshire; whence he immedi- ately returned home, not less than 50 h 2 milesacute rheumatism, miles, probably in bis wet clothes. These circumstances sufficiently explain why the event was fatal, il the disease was the acute Rheumatism ; and still more clearly, if the Gout. 9. “ Dec. 23, 1786. My only visit to W. B. esq; (No. 108.) was on the 11th day after he had broken the fibula of his leg, (when he was exposed to catch cold,) and on the 7 th day of a Rheumatick Fever. lie had felt chills, heats, pain in his loins, knee, foot, shoulders, arms, but chiefly of the joints of his thumbs and big toes. Delirious; profuse sweats for 50 hours; great thirst; white tongue; so languid as nearly to faint into a swoon; the pained joints are scarcely swelled. Haust. Dec. Peruv. %j. Spir. vol. Arom. Gutt. xx. statim. Deinde Haust. Dec. Peruv. %ifs. cum Camph.gr. iij. hor. 2rffl, forsan cum Pulv. Cort. Peruv. gr. x. Haust. e Tiuct. Theb. gutt. xx. Spir. Mind101 OR RHEUMATICK FEVER. Vin. Antim. Sfc. hord somni. Redeuntibus dolore et febre, Antim. Jac. gr. v. hor. 6. cum Mixt. Camph. et Spir. Mind. Vein- enti nausea, Haust. efferv. et Colomb. Pulv. gr. x. “ Dec. 29. He died.” This gentleman lived at Whitchurch, 20 miles from Chester. For 6 days I re- ceived no intelligence of him ; whence I had reason to think that during that time he had proceeded prosperously. On the fatal change, I was again desired to attend him, but was stopped in about an hour by another messenger. These cir- cumstances are mentioned to shew that the Bark (if he took it at all) had not disagreed; otherwise, I well know, both from the character of my patient, and of the Surgeon who attended him, that I should have received immediate notice. His death was sudden and unexpected, but the symptoms are not noted. 10. “ Mr.ACUTE RHEUMATISM, 10. “ Mr. C. (No. 125.) Dec. 25, for 3 months, particularly for 3 weeks, had pain in his feet, hands, back, hips; no swelling of his joints; no sweat; head- achs; thirst; want of appetite; costive- ness ; P. 100. So languid yesterday and to-day as nearly to faint into a swoon ; for two days has voided little urine; habitual drunkenness. Pil. Arom. gr. x. alvo astr. R Dec. Peruv. %vis. Tinct. Guai. vol. f)ifs. Pulv. Per. %ij. M. %j. hor. 4. “ Dec, 29. For 12 hours attempts to make water without effedh Enema Tereb. Venet. 3vj. Sic. Spir. JEth. Nitr. in Mixt. Peruv. “ Dec. 30. R Spir. JEth. Nitr. %ijs. Bals. copiab. %fs. M. 3 ij in Mixt. Pcjuv. “ Jan 1, 1790. Voids little urine and with difficulty. R. Dec. Per. gv. Spir. JEth, Nitr. %ifs. Spir. Junip. %ij. M. %j. hor. 3. If the urine be again suppressed, repeatOR RHEUMATICK FEVER. 103 repeat the turpentine clyster ; and if need- ful, give an anodyne clyster. He died.’* In ihis case, Rheumatism did not ap- pear to be the cause of the fatal event, but the suppression or deficient secre- tion of urine proceeding from habitual drunkenness. It is doubtful how far these two disorders were connected with each other. There is not the least rea- son to suspedt that the Bark disagreed with this patient. 11. “Mr. B. (No. 133.) March 4, having caught cold by wading in a river, had in three days afterwards two shaking fits, followed by pain of the joints, and profuse sweats. Pulv. Ant. Jac. gr. v• hor. 5. cum Mixt. Camph. %j. “ March 10. Cough relieved. Pain in his head, breast, and limbs. Cinchona Pulv. gr. x. in Aq. Menth. hor. 3. “ March 12. Better. Cinch. dj. hor. 3. “ March 15.ACUTE RHEUMATISM, 104 “ March 15. Yesterday was delirious; low spirits; a looseness. R. Tinct. Cin- namomi 1j. opii 3fs. Capiat 37. in Mixt. Peruv. “March 16. Delirious; so languid as nearly to faint into a swoon; diarrhoea. R. Mixt. camph. 3vij. Pnlv. cret. comp, cum opio gr. xv. Tinct. e. kino 37. M. hor. 3. Capitis rasura. Vesic. nucha.. “ March 17. Died.” This patient had Phrenitis and Diar- rhoea, both of them probably connected with acute Rheumatism. I11 this case, though not.noted, it is highly probable that blood was taken by the lancet and leeches frequently, as the Rheumatick Fever was accompanied by a cough, mentioned in the second, though not the first report. Such omissions in the narrative the reader will understand and excuse from the hurry in which it was written, and without any intention of publication. It105 OR RHEUMATICK FEVER: It is presumed that the information which these Fatal Cases communicate will warrant the following conclusions: 1st, That seven* fatal cases were com- bined with Phrenitis or Delirium: 2d, That three-)- cases terminated with a sudden and violent Diarrhoea; two of them combined with Phrenitis, and the third with convulsions: 3d, That in one;); case, when the pain and swelling receded from the joints, the patient was attacked with shortness of breath, cough, and spitting of blood ; which soon terminated fatally: 4th, That in three§ of the fatal / cases two of the patients were so faint and languid that they were apprehensive of falling into, and the 3d had, a Syn- cope: 5th, That in two|| cases miliary eruptions accompanied the Rheumatism : * Cases No. 12, 24, 75, 81, 91, 103, 133. f Cases No. 1, 75, 133. \ Case No. 17. § No. 108, 125, 133. || No. 1, 75. 6th,ACUTE RHEUMATISM, 106“ Difficult Cafes. 6th, That in one-j~ there was a suppression of urine: and 7th, That one+ was com- bined with a Typhous Fever, and aphtha? on the tongue and throat. §. XXVII. Having in this manner attentively examined, and I hope fairly determined, the interesting question whether the Bark had done mischief in any of the fatal cases which have occurred in my practice; it will in the next place be of great importance to inquire what diffi- culties were experienced in other cases where its beneficial efife6ts were most doubtful. For several years, my usual method of treating the acute Rheumatism has been to give either the tartarised Antimony frequently with soluble Tartar; or Anti- } No. 68. f No. 125. monial107 OR RHEUMATICK FEVER. nionial Powder, generally the latter, till the stomach and bowels are sufficiently cleansed. Without waiting for any other evacuation, or abatement either of the inflammation or the Fever, I order the Bark; at first in small doses, and, if they succeeded, gradually in larger. But if the Bark in any respect disagreed, or even if it do not produce manifest relief of the symptoms, the Bark was always suspended, and the Antimony again re- peated till it produced sufficient evacua- tions. After the stomach and bowels have been well cleansed a second time, the Bark was administered again in like manner, at first sparingly and then more freely. But it was never continued longer, nor in a larger quantity, than what per- fectly agreed with the stomach, the Fever, and so as not to aggravate the rheu- matick inflammation. If doubts occurred on any of these points, recourse has been had108 ACUTE RHEUMATISM, had to bleeding by the lancet or leeches, or both, and to more evacuations by Antimony. In such cases the Bark is not again employed till the inflammatory symptoms are abated. After a very accurate re-examination of all the cases of acute Rheumatism, I can only discover five in which the Bark did not produce manifest salutary effects on its first exhibition, and even in four of these patients it was of service after proper evacuations by the lancet, leeches, and Antimony. In order thoroughly to investigate this interesting question, I will here give a succinct account of these most unfavourable cases ; that the whole evi- dence may be submitted to the impartial judgment of the medical reader. The 1st untoward case* was of a young Lady, who together with all the usual * See Table I. No, 150, symptoms109 OR RHEUMATICS FEVER. symptoms of a rheumatick Fever bad been attacked with vomiting and purg- ing, a few days before I saw her. By these complaints she was reduced to a very debilitated state. For this reason? and because she had previously taken James’s antimonial Powder, (it is not said with what effedt,) I did not order any Antimony before the Bark was ad- ministered. Three days after she began to take it, I received a favourable report of its effects in abating the pain, increa- sing the appetite, and relieving the sick- ness. A week later there was a farther diminution of pain, but an increase of fever and loss of appetite. These cir- cumstances occasioned doubts, and there- fore (as was always my rule) the Bark was omitted. I ordered Blood to be let, which gave much relief to the Fever and pain; and then antimonials and the effer- vescing camphorated Draughts, which produced,ACUTE RHEUMATISM, 110 produced salutary effects. By these remedies her symptoms were much re- lieved; when the Bark was again taken, and continued till perfect health was recovered. The reason why Bark was taken with less uninterrupted success by this than by most of my other patients in the acute Rheumatism, appears to have been that her stomach and bowels were not suffi- ciently cleansed before it was exhibited. If she had been fieely vomited and purged with Antimony, and perhaps also bled, before she took the Bark, it seems proba- ble that her recovery would have been more speedy and perfect. My patient was situated 27 miles from Chester, and I only visited her twice ; otherwise pro- per evacuations might have been earlier employed, and her recovery sooner accom- plished. But, even in this unfavourable case, she was restored to a convalescent stateOR RHEUMATICK FEVER. Ill state in a month. A patient ill of a bad rheumatick Fever is seldom so far re- covered by the usual remedies of the lancet, leeches, sudorificks, &c. in so short a period of time. The 2d unfavourable Case* was a young man of 22, who had previously been twice attacked by the rheumatick Fever; tiie first time £) months ago, for a fort- night; the second time 6 months before I saw him, which continued for 6' weeks. Having caught cold by wet feet, he had again been seized with the acute Rheu- matism. My first visit was on the. 10th day of the Fever. After plentiful eva- cuations by Antimony, the powder of Bark was taken for a week without af- fording any relief. He was then bled ' repeatedly, and the antimonial powders, with saline camphorated draughts and squills, (as he had a cough combined with the Rheumatism,) were given for four * Table I. No. 159.112 ACUTE RHEUMATISM, The four days. Alter these evacuations the Bark was again taken till he recovered. This third fit of acute Rheumatism which he had suffered in 9 months con- tinued for seven weeks, being 5^ weeks after my first vssit. In so young a man, a rheumatick Fever occasioned so mani- festly from having caught cold might probably have received more speedy re- lief by taking more blood, and sooner by the lancet. However as the 2d rheuma- tick fever was longer than the 1st in the proportion of 6 to 2, there was reason to apprehend that the 3d attack might have been of longer duration than it proved to be. His recovery from the first relapse was very imperfect; he had rheumatick pains which continued all the summer. It is not reported how perfect was his recovery after taking the Bark, which was again ordered when he was in a convalescent state.OR RHEUMATICK FEVER. 113 I The The 3d Case* in tyhich the Bark was given with less than usual advantage was a patient who had been afflicted with this disease before I saw him, for five months. The swellings of the joints were gone, but much pain and stiffness remained in them: The warm Bath, pumping, and leeches, were ordered; and afterwards the Bark. When this medicine had been taken without ad- vantage for a week, it was omitted. Bathing and antimonials were ordered; and afterwards blood was let, which ap- peared inflamed. From these remedies he found relief, in about a week ; when Bark was again administered till his health was restored. In this case bleeding and Antimony were of manifest service, and the Bark succeeded better after these evacuations. * No. 168.ACUTE RHEUMATISM, The 114- The reason why these antiphlogistick remedies were delayed appears to have been, because the patient had been extremely debilitated and emaciated by a tedious disease. On this account, leeches only were at first directed, till a fresh accession of Fever required blood to be taken from the arm. Even in this case, though the Bark was taken with less benefit than usual, yet there is no reason to suspedt that it. did harm even when first exhibited, and after the eva- cuations it was of manifest service. The patient was in a convalescent state in 23 days, though he had been very ill for 5 months previous to my first visit. The cases in which I have found the Bark to produce the most salutary effects were in the inflammatory state of the rheumatick Fever: but in this patient the swelling of the joints had previously subsided.OR RHEUM ATI CK FEVER. 115 The 4-th patient* who took Bark with- out the usual benefit, had suffered two attacks of acute Rheumatism several years ago. In the present disease he had been affedted with great pain of his limbs, shoulders, hips, &c. for 5~ weeks; sweats ; and symptoms .of gravel. He used the warm and vapour Baths, &c. and Bark in various forms for a fort- night without much benefit. Mercury was then ordered. In 8 days he took Ilydrargyri muriati gr. iv. and in the 7 succeeding days 28 grains of Calomel : he had bathed eleven times at 96°, and four times in the vapour Bath. His gums were swelled red, his breath foetid. The Calomel was taken at gr. iv. a day for two days longer, in all gr. 3b; and then finally omitted on account of a salivation which continued at a pint a day for 3 days, and then gradually * Table T. No. l6g. i 2 abated.H<> ACUTE RHEUMATISM, abated. After the commencement of the mercurial course, the rheumatick pains began to be remarkably relieved in 7, and particularly so in 10 days. His health was gradually and perfectly recovered. On this occasion, I am very happy to offer my testimony in confirmation of the practice recommended by my very respectable friend Dr. Clark, of New- castle. He has published the most con- vincing proofs of the salutary power of Mercury in Rheumatism.* In the case above related its salutary effects were very remarkable: the disease was soon and completely cured, and the patient has ever since enjoyed good health. The fifth and last difficult case. “ No. 170. Mrs. M. March 28, being the 4th day of a rheumatick Fever, had suffered chills, burnings, profuse * See Clark, on the diseases of hot climates. Chap. ix. sweats,117 OR RHEUMATICK FEVER. sweats, violent pain of the shoulders, back, elbows, feet, thigh, knee, hips; great thirst; very restless days and nights. She took the Antimonial Pow- der; which produced copious evacua- tions of her stomach and bowels, but without relief of the Fever or inflam- mation. March 29. Bark in powder gr. x. was given every 3 hours. March 30. The pain of the shoulders remained, but it was diminished in the lower extremities; less sweat. The Bark L feels grateful. A cough. On account of this symptom, the Bark was omitted and the Antimonial Powders repeated* on March 30, 31, April 1 and 2, without producing any abatement of the pains, swellings, or fever. I endeavoured re- peatedly to persuade this patient to lose blood by the lancet, chiefly on account of her cough, but could not overcome her prejudicesACUTE RHEUMATISM, 118 prejudices on this point. She was extreme- ly averse to the operation, and her faint de- bilitated state gave her apprehensions that she could not bear such an evacuation. April 3. The Bark was again taken in powder gr. x. every 4 hours; April 4th, every 3 hours. April 6. A remarkable abatement of all the symptoms, except the inflamma- tion of the left hand. The Bark was increased to gr. xv. every 3 hours; April 8, to gr. xxii. every 3 hours. April 10. The pains, swellings, and sweats are much diminished. An ounce and half of the Decoction and 20 grains of the powder of Bark were then given every 3 hours. During this course effer- vescing draughts, and occasionally with Anodynes, were administered, to alleviate the Fever and watchful nights. April 12. Seldom coughs. Convales- cent. Continue Bark. InOR RHEUMATICK FEVER. 119 In 14 days (April 3 to 17,) though the patient in that period thought her pains and fever several times aggravated by catching cold, she was restored to perfect recovery from Rheumatism, which had reduced her to the wretched state above described. I never witnessed a more distressing case of this painful malady where the inflammation remained in its usual seat, the joints and muscles, and was not translated upon any of the vital organs. By continuing this re- medy, her appetite, strength, and sleep returned. She soon recovered good health. This case is related not as an instance where the Bark disagreed, or did not afford speedy relief. Its exhibition was suspended for a few days, because the Rheumatism was combined with another disease, a cough, which occasioned some doubts whether that might be aggravated byACUTE RHEUMATISM, 120 by this medicine. But an account of this patient is stated, because the time required to cure one of the worst rheu- matick Fevers by the Bark is accurately noted, that is, two weeks; reckoning the time during which this remedy was regularly administered ; or 3 weeks in- cluding the week, when, except one day, it had been omitted. Alter this rigid scrutiny, it clearly appears that the Peruvian Bark did no injury in any even of these 5 least fa- vourable cases; it aggravated neither pain nor fever. On the contrary, in 4 of them, after proper evacuations, it proved salutary, and promoted the pa^ tient’s recovery. §. XXVIII.OR RHEUMATICK FEVER. 121 §. XXVIII. As the principal purpose of this His- tory is to ascertain how far the Peruvian Bark is a safe and salutary remedy in the acute Rheumatism, I am solicitous to inquire, with all possible accuracy and impartiality, whether the fatal Cases here related can justly excite any doubt re- lative to this question. Only 4§ out of 11 patients who died of this disease had taken the Bark. No. 68 did not die of Rheumatism, but of a Typhous Fever with aphthae on her tongue and throat She only took ) the Bark for four days, and had ceased to use it for 13 days before her death; not because it disagreed, but because it had no salutary effect. In No. 125 a suppression of urine was plainly the cause of death. How far Did Bark do harm ? § No. 68, 108, 125, 133. this122 ACUTE RHEUMATISM, this disease might he connected with Rheumatism seemed very doubtful; they were most probably independent disor- ders. He had brought them on by ha- bitual drunkenness with spirits. It is of importance to remark, that neither in this nor the two other fatal cases (No. 108. 133.) was there any inflamma- tory swelling of the joints when the Bark was given. Again, all these three patients were in such a state of extreme debility and languor as to apprehend or suffer a Syncope. With such symptoms no physician would expedt any mischievous effects from the Bark. In these circum- stances it was manifestly preferable to all other remedies, tho’ it had not sufficient power to save their lives. According to the prevailing medical ideas on this subject, the greatest mischief should he apprehended from this remedy where the Fever was high and the inflammation violent.OR RHEUMATICK FEVER. 123 violent. On the whole, after the most rigid scrutiny, it is manifest there is not the slightest probability in any of the four fatal cases, that the Bark had disa- greed or aggravated a single symptom The written testimony is fully decisive upon this point, and in medical re- searches clearly evinces the great supe- riority of proofs supported by extensive experience to any founded upon theories however ingenious, or analogies however plausible. §. XXIX,ACUTE RHEUMATISM, §. XXIX. CONCLUSION. I had assigned a Column in the 1st Table to ascertain the time between my first visit and the recovery of the patient; but it was removed because the Table was much crowded, and few such facts had been recorded. The following brief statement contains all the information I can communicate on this head. Days. Cases. 3d inclusive 2 7th 3 8th 1 9th 2 11th 4 Days. Cases. 11—20 4 21 — 80 6 31—40 1 41—50 1 70—80 1 25 Hence it appears that 22 out ot 25 patients ill of the acute Rheumatism were restored to health in 30 days. The125 OR rheumatick fever. The following is a synoptical view of all the cases stated in the first Table : Patients died 11 recovered with Bark 100 without Bark .... 28 no report with Bark 15 — without Bark .... 16 170 From the 100, if we dedudl the 5 unfavourable cases, 95 remain. After all the fatal and five other of the most unfavourable cases have been in this * manner explained, and fairly submitted to the reader’s consideration, we may assume with confidence as decisive evidence in favour of the Bark all the other instances where it was used. For in all of them a speedy and perfect re- covery may be manifestly ascribed to this remedy, I have again scrupulously reviewedACUTE RHEUMATISM, 126 reviewed and attentively re-examined all the remaining cases in which the Bark was given with evident advantage. Out of the 95 I can find only two who re- quired any interruption of it, scarcely worth notice, in which the Bark had been, administered before Antimony: but, after properly exhibiting the latter remedy, the former agreed and was- taken with perfect success. To these 95 ought to be added 15 other cases where no report is given of the event, though there is less positive evidence of its salutary effects: but this silence clearly implies, though it does not de- clare, a favourable issue, and that no farther advice nor remedy was required, It is very interesting and instructive to remark, that, though this powerful remedy was given to many patients very early after the commencement of the Fever, and was frequently ordered at my firstOR RHEUM A TICK FEVER. i'27 first visits, yet it seldom failed to pro_ duce immediate and salutary effects. To many medical readers this may appear very bold and hazardous practice, being so widely different from the opinions on this subject, which generally prevail con- cerning the nature of inflammatory Rheumatism, and the medicinal qualities of the Peruvian Bark. But it is to be considered, that my adoption of this uncommon remedy for the acute Rheu- matism commenced on the authority of that eminently sagacious and intelligent physician Dr. John Fqthergill; (fee §. XXI.) and that the practice which I now venture to recommend, is the result of gradual improvements for a long series of years, as successful experience led by degrees to farther deviation from the re- medies usually employed in this disease. With sedulous attention to every cir- cumstance which denotes that a medi- cineI2S ACUTE RHEUMATISM, cine relieves or aggravates a patient’s disorder, wirh a steady purpose to perse- vere or desist according to the effects* I have been long taught, and thoroughly convinced that all hazard of doing mis- chief may be avoided, and yet that as much benefit may be obtained as its salutary qualities can produce. By strictly following the rules and cautions dictated by the medical experience of others and of my own, it has so hap- pened, not only in this but in all other diseases, that I never did witness a fatal consequence from any remedy for 45 years, during which period I have been constantly engaged in ordering them and witnessing their effeCts. So long and so uniform a course of successful experience has given much satisfaction to my own mind, and afforded an highly beneficial confidence in the safety of the pradice of physick. It banishes equallyOR RHEUMATICK FEVER. equally the injurious extremes of timidity and temerity. It encourages and war* rants an efficacious method of treating diseases without rashness, or apprehen*- sions of doing mischief. There is no doubt that this accurate and faithful declaration of the safety of remedies, though diredtly contrary to the vulgar creed, and even to the sceptical opinions maintained by men of knowledge in other sciences, might be confirmed by many physicians of extensive practice; because certainly many others have been at least equally skilful, discreet, and fortunate. For the benefit of mankind, it is of importance to correct the false fears which many entertain of the per- nicious effects produced by physick. Strangers to the Author’s character may have many opportunities to learn from his medical acquaintance and his patients, that he was, even in conversation, never k guilty130 ACUTE RHEUMATISM, guilty of any professional boastings or exaggerations. It cannot therefore be suspected that he should now make such a solemn and publick asseveration, it he could entertain the slightest doubt of its tr uth. On a subject of such great import- ance he feels it his duty to publish this general remark; the conscious confidence of integrity places him above a!! personal considerations ; even above the apprehen- sion that this declaration may be im- puted to the disgraceful motive of vanity. Itis highly proper thatsuch aTruth should be promulged, both for the credit of the Profession, and the benefit of Mankind. It is not to be expected that even this full and faithful statement of fa&s, will soon obtain general attention. Though my respectable friend Dr. Saunders has recommended Bark in. Rheumatism for many years both in his leClures and publications, yet I do not know that it has any where received the attention which itOR RHEUMATICK FEVER. 131 it justly merits: even lately Lhave .heard a pupil of his censured for giving it in this disease, by a very intelligent a.i'id candid physician. For many years, whenever an opportunity offered in correspondence, consultation, or even casual conversation, I haveconstantly recommended the Bark, as incomparably the best remedy for th e acute Rheumatism. Such hints I have in this manner communicated to physicians of the first abilities, but it remains doubtful whether these exhortations have induced them to adopt the pra<5tice. However, in process of time, and when the evidence here adduced shall be fully confirmed by the testimony of other medical witnesses, the method of treatment which I have ventured to recommend, if the best, may at length be generally approved and established. To sum up the whole in a few words. After the stomach and bowels have been K 2 sufficiently132 ACUTE RHEUMATISM, sufficiently cleansed by Antimony, 1 have, for many years, begun to order the pow- der of the Peruvian Bark in doses of gr. v. x. or xv. every 2, 3, or 4 hours; and if this quantity had a salutary effedl, it was gradually increased to gr. xx. xxx. or xl. with sedulous attention never to add more than what perfectly agrees. It has gene- rally been taken in milk, mint water, or the Decodtion of Bark. With the exception of the five unfa- vourable cases above noticed, the Bark has uniformly produced the most salutary effects. The pains, swellings, sweats, and other symptoms of inflammatory Fever, manifestly and speedily abate, and gradually cease, till health is per- fedlly restored. Dr. James Currie, in his Medical Reports, p. 421, observes, that “ the in- “ flammatory Rheumatism is one of the “ most tedious and intra^able of dis- “ eases.” This remark of a physician ofOR RHEUMATICK FEVER. 133 such extensive experience, and medical knowledge, deserves particular attention. It proves the value of an inquiry which attempts to discover a safe and certain remedy for such a malady. Another circumstance merits great at- tention. After the Rheumatick Fever has been treated by bleeding, leeches, sudorificks, &c. it is well known that pains of the diseased joints and muscles often afHi6t the patient for many months or even years. In my clinical reports I find no instance of this kind, and have reason to think that the Bark entirely prevents this cause of the chronick Rheumatism as a consequence of the inflammatory Fever. Except Mercury in the Syphilis, and Cinchona in the Ague, there are few examples where a remedy can produce such speedy relief and perfect recovery in so formidable a disease. §. XXX.ACUTE RHEUMATISM, 134 §. XXX. The following Case, which occurred in my own family, merits particular attention. 1812. Mary Luck ford, 26 years of age, was called out of bed four times one night to take my Grandson to his Mother in another room ; once when in a sweat, succeeded by a cold chilly state for an hour after returning to her bed. On the 3d day inclusive she was attacked by a Rheumatick Fever. 1st day (Thursday March 5th) about noon she felt rheumatick pains in her ankles and arms, with fever. She took the Antimonial Powder that evening; being 7 hours after the commencement of the disease. This and all the following doses were 5 grains each. 2d day. A little sweat; but the An- timony did not adt upon the stomach or bowels. The /OR RKEI7MATICX FEVER. 135 The pains greatly increased last night and to-day in her legs, thighs, hips, back, and arms. Chilly and hot fits. Sweats. Thirst. Pulse frequent, not strong. Four doses of Antimonial Powder were taken to-day, one every 4 hours; which occasioned purging and vomiting. 3d day. After a bad night, had greater pain of her legs, knees, hips, and shoul- ders; a stiffness all over her, so that she is unable to move. Her ankles, knees, and elbows are all much swelled. Chilly and hot fits. Profuse sweats. Thirst. Red sediment in her uiine. Took an Anti- monial Powder in the evening, and at bed time. 4th day. Much worse. Pains and swel- lings increased. Chills. Burnings. Sweats. Cannot move a limb. In the morning took 3 Antimonial Powders, which producing little effedt; 3 drachms of the sulphate of magnesia were given at 2 p. m. InACUTE RHEUMATISM, 13G In the afternoon vomited very fre- quently; had 4 stools in the evening. Profuse sweats. Felt herself very weak and low. At bed time took 20 drops of Laudanum. 5th day. Began at 7 a. m. to take a scruple of Cinchona. Four such doses were taken to-day. As her tongue was covered with a thick yellow fur, the Cinchona was given with the Carbonate of Potash and Lemon Juice in an efferves- cing state; which was extremely palatable and refreshing. Laudanum at night. 6th day. Had a good night, but not much sleep. This morning she can move one leg. During the 3d, 4th, and 5th days, she could not stir a single limb. Took 5 scruples of Cinchona with the effervescing additions. In the evening much better. 7th day. Has pain of her stomach, which seems to proceed from flatulence. For137 OR RHEUMATICS FEVER.' For this reason, and as the fur on the tongue is much less, the Cinchona was given without the effervescing additions, but with ten grains of Rhubarb in the first, and 20 drops of the Spiritus Ammo- nias compositus in each dose. Five scruples of Cinchona were taken to-day, and the Laudanum at bed time. 8th day. A good night. But little pain or swelling. No sweat. She can stand on her feet. Took 5 scruples of Cinchona in milk, to-day. 9th day. In the morning she said, “ I have had a good night and am quite “ well. I have neither pain nor sti fin ess, “ and can walk as well as ever I could. “ When first seized I was sadly fright- “ ened.” Thus on the 9th day of a very severe Rheumatick Fever, and on the 5th day (both inclusive) after she began to take the Cinchona, her health was perfedtly restored ;.. ACUTE SHEUMATISM, restored ; by 50 grains of the Antimonial Powder in ten doses, and by 19 scruples of Cinchona. This said month of March has been the most inclement of the whole winter in various sudden changes to rain, frost, and snow. In going about the house, she thought that she caught cold several times so as to occasion some pain and stiffness ; but these complaints were only slight and transitory. The Cinchona has been continued 3 or 4 times a day. Mary Luckford in 179f>, when ten years old, had been an in-patient of a County Infirmary during 4 months for a Rheumatick Fever, and afterwards an out-patient for 12 months. She had caught cold by walking in the morning through a water meadow', and by sitting all day at school in her wet shoes, stockings, &c. The next morning, the Rheumatick pains and Fever139 OR RHEUMATICK FEVER. Fever commenced; being the 2d day after she had caught cold. In 1804, she was again an in-patient of the same Infirmary during 3 months, for a Rheumatick Fever; and afterwards an out-patient for 6 months. She had had a chill from damp feet, on going out too soon after a bad scarlet Fever. The Rheumatick, Fever began on the 2d or 3d day after this chill. On the first Wednesday after this attack, she was admitted into the Infirmary. From December 181G till March 1811 (except one week in January) she was a third time an in-patient of the same In- firmary for a Rheumatick Fever. She had walked for a mile in very heavy rain, so that all her clothes were entirely wet through, and she remained in them 4 hours after returning home, on a Sunday. She was attacked with Rheumatick pains and Fever on the Tuesday, IACUTE RHEUMATISM, 140 Tuesday, (the 3d day inclusive) and was admitted into the Infirmary next day, Wednesday. This and all other British Infirmaries are under the direction of very skilful Physicians. She was in each Fever blooded, blistered, sweated, &c. Her Physicians were very attentive to her case. They generally altered her medicines at each visit. Hence it is manifest that she had the benefit of the best remedies then known. On the whole, the last appears to be a very extraordinary example. The re- covery was much more speedy and perfect than I ever before witnessed. It far ex- i ceeded my expectations founded upon the experience of the efficacy of this mode of treatment in other instances of the Rheumatick Fever. Indeed a physician has seldom an opportunity to order reme- dies at the commencement of this disease. 1OR RHEUMATICK FEVER. CORRESPONDENCE. Soon after the former edition of this Tradt was published, I had great satisfadtion in receiving the following I. ExtraB of a Letter from Sir George Baker fjart. M. /). F.R.S. President ojthe College of Physicians, and Phy- sician to their Majesties. “July 19thj 1805. “ WITH respedt to Rheumatism, <s you have justified and confirmed the “ mode of treatment which I have fol- “ lowed for many years. In the year “ 17(52, Sir Edward Wilmot was called “ to consult with me on the case of a “ gentleman who was labouring under “ an acute Rheumatism. He communi- 141 “ cated142 ACUTE RHEUMATISM, “ cated to me his practice, which entirely “ corresponds with that which you have “ now made public. “ I have otten seen the inefficacy of “ the frequent use of the lancet, and 4* indeed had been deterred from it by “ the experience of Sydenham.” » As Cinchona had been administered in the acute Rheumatism more generally in the Metropolis than any other part o( the Empire, probably owing to the traditional practice above explained, I .addressed the following inquiry to ten of my medical correspondents in London. “ Bath, Sept. &th, 1809. “ A new edition of my clinical “ history of the acute Rheumatism and “ of Nodosity of the joints is to be soon “ published. Being very desirous to im- “ proveOR RHEUMATICK FEVER. US “ prove it to the utmost of my power, I “ have thought that the best method of accomplishing this purpose would be to inquire among the most intelligent 4‘ of my medical Friends, in: extensive 4‘ pra<5tice, how far their experience had 44 confuted, corrected, or confirmed any 44 of the conclusions which Iliad ventured “ to deduce from the fa<5fs which had 44 fallen under my own observation. “ The practical directions which Pro- 44 fessors and Authors have very generally 44 given, never to administer Cinchona 44 in inflammatory diseases, will obviously 44 excite suspicions that it may do mis- 44 chief in the Rheumatick Fever ; so that 44 it may be difficult to obtain, even from 44 experience, impartial observations to 44 determine the question. If you or any 44 of your medical acquaintance have 44 ventured to employ this remedy in 44 such cases, may I request the favour 44 of144 ACUTE RHEUMATISM, “ of you to acquaint me what are the “ circumstances in which it has been ob-* “ served to do good or harm ? I solicit “ your remarks as a private favour, so “ that you may communicate them “ without reserve. I shall never take the “ liberty to quote your authority without “ special permission. “ Have you known Soda, Arsenic, or “ any other remedy given with beneficial “ effects in Nodosity of the joints ? “ My only wish is to investigate the “ Truth, not to establish any particular “ doftrine or practice. For so important “ a purpose I hope that my medical “ Friends will excuse the liberty I have “ taken in soliciting their unreserved and M confidential observations.” I subjoin145 OR RI-IEUMATICK FEVER. I subjoin the following answers, which contain the whole intelligence that I received in answer to my inquiry. They are published with the “ special permis- sion” of my very respectable correspon- dents. The valuable information which they contain requires no comment. II. Extract of a Letter from William Heberden, M. D. F. R. S. Physician to their Majesties, and Fellow of the College of Physicians. r I \ I “ 16th Sept. 1809. “ OWING to my being out of “ town with my family, I have not been “ able to answer your letter of the 8th “ so soon as I otherwise should have done; “ nor can I answer it so fully, for I have “ no opportunity of consulting with other l “ PhysiciansACUTE RHEUMATISM, 146 III. Extract “ Physicians upon the subject. With regard “ to myself, it had been my usual practice ci at St. George’s, and I have generally “ pursued it since, to give Antimonial “ medicines for the first few days, and Ci then to have recourse to the Bark. I “ believe I learnt this from my Father; “ and I know he told me that the ad- “ ministration of Bark in Acute Rheu- “ matism had been generally adopted “ by Sir E» Hulse, and with very good <£ success. Upon the publication of your 66 first edition the subject was of course talked of among Physicians in London; “ and I know it appeared to be the “ established practice of many of them.” \ yOR RHEUMATICK FEVER, 147 III. Extract of a Letter from William Saunders, M. D. F. R. S. and S. A. # Fellow of the College of Physicians, and Physician Extraordinary to the Prince of Wales. “ Sept. 15th, 1809. “ WITH reaped! to your enquiries on “ the subject of the acute Rheumatism, “ I am assured, by much experience and “ accurate observation, that, with all its “ inflammatory symptoms, it is an Ague “ in disguise ; and that while it may be “ necessary to moderate exacerbations “ by local or by general bleeding, the “ Bark is the only effectual means of “ checking the recurrence of paroxysms. “ I suspedt it is the same disease, whether “ it falls on the Diaphragm or the Heart u or any vital organ, which may make “ it14S ACUTE RHEUMATISM, I “ it necessary to evacuate more freely “ by the lancet, yet the Bark combined “ with volatiles will be found the most “ effectual remedy,” IV. Extract of a Letter from R. WlLLAN, M. D. 66 YOUR observations respecting “ the utility of Peruvian Bark in Acute “ Rheumatism so far agree with the ex- “ perience and knowledge I have on the: “ subject, that I can only confirm what iC you have established. They who “ object to the practice, do it upon “ hypothetical notions, supposing the “ Cinchona to act by a stimulative quality, “ that is, by increasing either the num- “ ber or the force of the arterial vibra- “ tions. From many set experiments, I “ am convinced these notions are un- “ founded. Bark neither quickens nor ' “ hardensOR RHEUMAT1CK FEVER. 149 i i hardens the pulse, whether it be given “ in febrile diseases or a state ot health. “ It has always, in the trials to which I “ refer, diminished the number of pulsa- “ tions of the heart in a given time, and “ appeared to me to render the circula- “ tion steady without stimulating. “ These points were forced, some “ years ago, upon my mind, while im- “ pregnated by Books and Professors with “ a train of ideas entirely different. But “ how are we to eradicate errors grown u almost inveterate, and sanctioned by “ the highest names; it is certainly best “ to persevere in correct statements ; and “ we must feel obliged to you, who stand “ so high in the profession, for opposing “ authority to authority, till the truth be “ made manifest.” V. ExtractACUTE RHEUMATISM, 150 V. Ext? 'act of a Letter from Sir Lucas PefyS) hart. M. D. Physician to his Majesty, President of the College of Physicians, and Physician General to the Army. “ October 28^/2, 1809. “ I place so much confidence in “ every thing you say, that I have en- “ tirely changed my usual mode of “ treating the acute Rheumatism, and “ have given the Bark with the greatest <e success. I have given it with a very “ full pulse, and have not hesitated “ to give it where I formerly used to 44 bleed and promote Perspiration. The tf use of the Bark, and keeping the bowels “ open with neutral Salts, appear to me “ to be the best mode of treating acute “ Rheumatism, and preventing its run- t( ning into the chronic state. I beg, “ therefore,151 OR RHEUMATICK FEVER. i “ therefore, that you will consider me as “ one of those who acknowledge obliga- “ tion to you for having taught them the 61 use of such a medicine in a disease “ which was before very untoward and “ difficult to cure.” VI. Extract of a Letter from J. C. Lettsom, M. D. “ Dec. 4th, 1809. <c SINCE your letter, I have “ attended two cases of violent acute “ Rheumatism. The first at Kentish “ Town, when I found the patient, either “ from nature or art, bathed in sweat; Ci and, from dyspnoea, the head and chest “ raised, whilst the pains and swellings of “ the hand and legs were considerable. “ After purging, I instantly threw in “ the Bark ; and on my next visit, my “ patient152 ACUTE RHEUMATISM, VII. Extract 64 patient was so well as to relieve me *4 from attendance. 44 The other, in High Holborn, had 44 such lancinating pains of the chest, as 44 in any other disease might have discou- 44 raged the Cortex. I purged him with 44 Infusum Rosas and Magnesia vitriolata, 44 and then administered the Bark. Im- 44 promptu I ordered a blister to the 44 breast, to counteract the dyspnoea, but ** it was not applied, as the breathing 44 improved without it.153 OR RHEUMATICK FEVER. i \ I VII. Extract of a Letter from Sir Walter F arszuhar, hart. M. D. Physician to the Prince of Wales. “ Oct. 18th, 1810. “ WITH regard to the Rheumatism “ I have long been a perfect convert to “ your mode of treatment, and have been “ particularly successful by the free use of “ Bark, taking care at the same time to “ attend to all the secretions, and occa- “ sionallv intermitting it. I had last j o u Summer, that is, about 4 months ago, “ the most striking cases of acute Rheu- “ matism, in subjects that had had the “ disease before, which had lasted for '‘3 or 4 months, and left the constitu- “ tion very much debilitated. They “ by the use of Bark were restored to “ perfect health in six weeks, and joined “ their154 ACUTE RHEUMATISM, VIII. Extract “ their regiments. I believe the failure “ of this wonderful medicine arises from “ considering the Bark to be given, as in “ agues, almost without any other medi- Ct cine; by which means, the constitu- “ tion is heated, the usual secretions “ negledted, and mischief is the conse- <c quence. This I confess I have “ repeatedly seen, when the breast has “ been affected, and Phthisis finished the “ scene : this to be sure is no fault in the “ remedy, but in the administration of “ it. I feel happy in being on the list of “ the approvers of your practice. More “ of this if we should be fortunate enough « to meet. If not, make use of my i “ name as you please.”OR RHEUMATICK FEVER. VIII. Extract of a Letter from John A ikin, M. D. “ April 3d, 1811. i “ THIS reminds me of your re- \ 1' - 66 quest respecting the Rheumatick case. “ 1 am sorry that I have no documents “ for any thing more specific, than that '* the patient was an athletic man, in the “ prime of life, who was suffering very “ severely under rheumatick pains affect- “ ing various parts successively ; that the “ antiphlogistic method had been freely “ tried with no advantage; and that on “ being called in, I immediately, con- “ fiding in your experience, threw in “ the Bark liberally with little other “ medicine; though the Pulse was still “ quick, and heat considerable; and that “ a rapid recovery was the consequence. “ My Son Charles tells me he has had a “ case nearly of the same kind.”1st TABLE. CASES OF 156 i. |ii. |iii.| | 1 vi. | vii. ( viii. | ix. | X. | xi. | xii. |xiii. o M •a O < Firit 1 Visit. eves Segan Came. Latent period. Prior Diseases. Present Diseases. Inflamed joint! and muscles. Pain, • Swelling.’’ 1 hills, Sweats. Urine. t. 4 1767 M*y May Cynanchc. Miliaria. Diarrhoea. Convuls. Wrists, ankles, and other joints. Pain, Swelling. Red. a. 16 oa. oa. Twice Cold. Inferior Joints. Pain, Swelling. 3- Dec. Hands. Pain, Swelling. Dec. Dec. Strain. Chest. 5- 1768 April April Epistaxis. Wrists, Shoulders, Joints. 6. 55 June Chest, Shoulders. 7* 66 July Podagra. Erysipelas. Joints, Wandering. Pain, Swelling. Red. Chills. 8. Aug. Legs, Wrists, Joints. Pain, Swelling. 9- 1769 Jan. Jan. • Knee, Shoulders. 10. iS Jan. Dec. Drink- ing Spirits. • Phthisis Diarrhoea. Phthisis. Miliaria. Purpura. Syncope. Knee, Wrists^ Arms, Legs. Pain, Swelling. Chills. Sweats. I I 4^ April Jan. Drink- ing Spintr. Feet, Knees, Loins, Hips. Pain, Swelling. Chills. Sweats. Red Sedi- ment. la. 53 May May Phrenitis. Knee, Shoulders. Chills. Sweats. Red S. >3- Aug. Dyspnoea. Chest, Wandering. Fever. *4 July June Cold. Delirium. Hands, Joints. Pain, Swelling. Swears. is- 65 Aug. Nodosltaj. Nodositas. Knee and all joints. Pain, Swelling. 16. Dec. 'Nov. Miliaria. Joints. Chills. RedS. *7- l6 1770 Jan. Jan. "" Rheum, t hronic. Hsemopt. Dyspnoea. Hands, Feet. Pain, Swelling. t3 15 Marcl Marcl Cold. Back, Neck, Knees, Head. Pain. Chills. Sweats Red S. 19 30 1771 Jan. Cold. Phrenitis Miliaria. Chest, Thighs, Loins. I Chills. 1 Sweats. RedS. 20 April April Water on head breast, shoulder Quotidian Breast, Neck, Head. Pain. Chills. Sweats. 2.1 • 36 Sept. Sept. Phrenitis Miliaria. Wrists, Joints Pain, Swelling Chills. . Sweats Clear. aa r Nov. Nov Cold. Joints, Ankles Pain. Swelling Fever. RedS. »..eech Dd. >udo. 5 Ant. Sp. ' Symp- ■ul«c dis. Prior Anti- R. 157 V. S. R. Ant. mony Saline. ACUTE RHEUMATISM. R. R. R. Saline. Ant. R. 5 fUms. ifick sp. sp. Ant. V. S. Dose. SP. sp. tnfus. Perwv. B. or Ollier Lax. V. S. R. Salinei. Ant. R. sp. visit. Cinchona. rtf D. Inf. 2 ox. Opio Infld. Ant. Ant Ess. sp. Ant. Ant- Not Ant R. z8th. R. . Mind. Dec. 1ii. R. inf. jfii. Ant 1st. ter die. Infld. Tart 108 Ant. R. ^nt. R. V. s. loth. V. s. V. s. R. Mind. Bis die. R. Ant. V. s. xst. P. vi. drams R. Ant. 91 R. D. R. Sp. REMEDIES ORDERED. ""bark ordered. > :iv.| xv. | xvi.|xvii. |xviii.|xix.| XX.| XXI. Ixxii. |xxiii.|xxiv. xxv.l xxvi. | xxvii Blood.1 toms. CO Day Day kec. Infld. viij. Mind. 6. Mind. Tart. 83 Infld. 3viij- twice. 4« Mind. Infld. once. Sp. Mind. 80 Tart. 120 Infld. xij. Mind. Tart. Infld. viij. Mind. Tart. Infld. once. Mind. 108 4- sp. Mind. | 120 Infld. xxvj. Nitre. Am. Tart. D. 7<S Infld. viij. Mind. Am. Tart id. £>uater die. Infld. JXij. xx. 2. Nitre gr. xx. 4 die. Tart. 37th. 30th. Pul'v. *r. 40 twice a day to an ounce. 4- F. gr. xxx. Sp. Ess. 110 Tu- mors rece- ded. Ess Opio. ptf Infld. Jix. viij. Sp. Mind. Tart. 108 sp. Mind. Haust Salin. Tart. 3d. Sp. Mind, half ox. 111 Infld. Ets. Opio Tart. twice Inf. lift Hor.3. 1i4 Infld. X. J. 47th 7 th. Inf. %ij,158' 1st TABLE (Continued). CASES OF i. |ii.|iii.| iv. | v. | vi. | vii. | viii. | ix. | x. | xi. | xii. |xiii. O f« s *3 , 4. U ~ s M < First Visit. Dis. Hegan Cause. Latent period. Prior Diseases. Present Diseases. Inflamed Joints! Pain, and Muscles. | Swelling Chills Sweats. Urine. > 77— Jan. Dec. Cold. 1 Knees, Loins, Head. Sweats. *4 18 Jan. Jan. Convulsio. Pbrcnitis. Limbs. Pain, Swelling. I Chills. Sweats. 25- zi. Marcl Feb. | Cold. 1 Wrists, Shoulders, Loins. Pain, Swelling, Red. RedS. 16. March Teb. Cold. Joints. Pain, Swelling. Sweats. Red S. % *7- A’p ril Jan. Knees, Hip, Fingers. Pain, Swelling. Chills. 18. June June Hands, Knees, Feet. Pain, Swelling. Chills. Sweats. 3.9. / II. July May Expo- sure to Cold in a Sweat. Joints. Pain, Swelling. 30. Dec. Nov. Hysteria. Back, Head, Belly, Wandering. Chills. • ' 3i- 17. 1773 Jan. Jan. Hands, Knees, Ankles. Pain, Swelling. Sweats. 3*- Feb. Joints. Pain, Swelling. 1 I 33- 17- March Feb. Legs, Arms. Swelling. Chills, j 1 3,| 1 1 23- March Jan. 1 1 Joints. Pain, Swelling. 1 1 35- *S.| April Marchj l Cold, j ■ Hands, Knees. Ankles. Pain, Swelling. Chills. Sweats. 3<S-J 1 M- June Cold. 1 I Hands, Feet, I Knees. Pain, Swelling. 37- oa. oa. | Cold. 1 Miliaria. Joints. Pain, Swelling. Chills. 38. l oa. oa. Cynanchc. Rheumatism. | Sweats. 39- Nov. Cold. Ischias. Hip. 40. ■sstt M arch Cold. Knees, Ankles, Hands,Thorax, Elbows, Shoulders. Pain, Swelling. RedS -1 21 l April | • i Knees, Ankles, Hands,Thorax. Pain, Swelling.ACUTE RHEUMATISM. _ 159 i. — — —. ■■ »•— ■ ■■■■- ■ ■ ■» ‘ REMEDIES ORDERED. r- —A ; 7> Cinchona Ordered. XV. 1 xvi.|xvii. |xviii.|xix.| xx. | xxi. |xxii. |xxin.]xxw.| «tv. | xxvi. |xxrih Hood Othe . Symp toms Prior - Remc dies. V s. 5 r Mrh f Surfo Leecl1' tificks Salines j Anri- : A mony 1 £ 1 SO •-‘ay discas Day visit. Dose. Rec. or Dd. nflil. Vertig Vomii ing. 0 X. I Am { Tirt gr.fs \om.ko ' 1 1 1 R. J -via. 1 1 | Ant. | Tart 1 gr-js 1 1 l L nfld. 1 1 X. X. 1 Ant. Tart. \&Ta 1 Solut) 1 I- i 1 1 3 quo- tidie. • Ant. Tart. Tart. sol. Bee. & Acid. Vitr. dein. cum Pulv. gr. x. R. 1 1 1 6. Ant. Opio. Spir. Mind. 36th. 1st. Dec. IS"Acid. Vitr. R. 1 1 1 via. Spir. Mind. Essent Ant. 1 | — 1 1 Spir. Mind. J Ant. Tart. 12th. 7 th. Pul. 9/. ter die. L lfld. V. s. bis. . 1 4ar- nculo info. quotid. i l - Ant. Tart. Inf. lfld. j x. x. i l 1 Nitre, j Ant. Tart. 1 x. An1' Tart Inf. R. X. Spir. Mind. Tart- sol. Ant. Tart. 1 R. X. Hir. Ant. Tart. Kali Tart. 1 1 R. Eu. Ant. Tinlt- Opio. 1 Ter. | in i yna.\ 182. I Pul. 9 j. Ist' 1 bis die Infus. | Cbamaem. R. 1 lfld. T///7. 'Lft. 6. 6. Nitre. ifith. 4th. Dec. rzj. h. £ R. viii. Spir. Mind. Ant. Tart. 1 1 R. 1 1 t i 1 1 Ant. Tart. B. R. ■via. J 4. 1 Ant. Idle, j Opto. Ant. Tart. 28th. 1st. | Dec. is?TinO. ter die. R. 1 1 viii. j ! Ant. Tart. OfiO. | 1 1 1 1 1st. Pul. 9 j. bis die.160 1st TABLE (Continued). CASES OF i. |ii. |iii.| iv. | v. | vi. | vii- | viii. | ix. | x. \ xi. f- xii. |xiii. u 1 * male. . J 10 , 55 ' 7irst risit. B Dis. egan Clause. Latent period. Prior Diseases. Present In Diseases. flamed Joints Pain, ind Muscles. | Swelling. Sv Chills, 0 seats. — rinc June May Pbrcnitis. Inkles, Knees. g Pain, veiling. 43- Dec. Nov- Cold. Ilium, Loins, Leg, Hand. 44- 1775 Feb. Jan. E ack,Shoulders, Hands, Feet. S Pain, veiling. Sweats. 1 45- Feb. Feb. Phlegma- sia. Leg, Side. Chills. 46. 54- May Nov. Gums, Teeth, Jaws, Head. 47- Sept. Aug. • Wrists, Ankles, Feet, Hands. Pain, welling. Chills, Sweats. 48. Pci6 Knees. 49- ?'• May • Knew. 50. 40 June June Hands, Feet. Pain, Swelling. 51. June June Damp Bed. Breast, Brow, Back, Neck. Pain, Swelling. Chills, Sweats. 52- July July Fatigue. Cold. - Dyspnosa. Thighs, Legs, Arms, Wrists. Shoulder. Pain, Swelling. Chills. • | 53- 1 I 1777 Jan. Dec. Cynanchc. Nephritis. Hematu- ria. Wrists, Fingers. Pain, Swelling Chills. Sweat*. 54- I 1 itf. March Feb. f Catarr. | Diarrb. Ankles, Wrists, Hands, Knees, Hips, Shoulders Pain, Swelling Chills. . Sweats ^ 1 V* « jMarcli Feb. Uterus. Hands, Knees, Hips. Pain, Swelling Sweats R S6. 42 April April 1 Catarrh. Diarrb. Ankle, Ham. 1 57 22. May April Hands, Knees, Heel. No Fever. 58 Oft. Sept. Cold. Wandering, and Hypocondre. Pain. Fever. 59 Oft. Oft. Loins, Knees, Shoulder, Feet. Chills, Sweats 1 . 60. Nov. Oft. Cold. Cynanebe- | Knees, Ankles, Wrists. I Pain, 1 Swelling Chills, . Sweats 1B. Infid. R. 1 7. Infld. | Scarce Saline. ter die. Inf. ? if- Tin it. jii. R. Ant. ! 1st. 1 Mbit, Peruv : 5th. ( Ant. 1 R. Ant. A.T. 9th. R. b. 4. 1 Tart. 8 | Opio. 1 1 Ant. 1 p. bit die. 1C 1 Infill. | 1 1 4- Pulnj. Ant. 7. loth. 4th. P. 4 ilie. R. 1 1 l 1 i I Used no j Remedy. )0 58 Ess. Ant. 29th. (5th. inf. Per.Jifs. Tint}, j/. bis die. R. : * * quotid. Ant. Opio. P.A.J. iv. 14th. 2d. inf. J id- ler die. R. P.A.J. 1 1 1 r - ►— 1 Pul'll. J- / Ext. 3 ft. ' — f 10 b| Infill 1 Pulv. 1 j162 1st TABLE fContinued). CASES OF J gia. I Back, Side. I Nephritis. | Miliaria■ J - ^4 i. | ii. |iii.| iy. | v. | vi. | vii. VIII. IX. O (M “• s First Visit. nis. I Began! I ! xi. I xii. Ixiii.., Cause. Latent period. Prior | Present Diseases. ‘ Diseases. 61. 63. Dec. Inflamed Joints Pain, Chills and Muscles. Swelling.Isweats.' oa. A'oiios has. 6z, Urine.:.! Vcmiiui Diarrb. Knees, Hips, Wrists. 1778 Jan. Pain, Swelling. Chills, Sweats. Dec. 63. Dyscntc- ria. Hand, Legs, Thighs, Knees. 38. Feb. Dec. Cold. Breast, Belly, Back, wrists. Chills, Sweats. 64. Nov. Nov. Cold. Shoulder. Pain, Swelling. Sweats. <SS. id. Dec. Nov. Cold. 3d D. Knees, Head, Back, Hips. Pain. Chills. Sweat*. Pale. 66. 30. '779 March Feb. Damp Stock- ings. Catarrh. Neck, Groin, Thighs, Knees. 1 April April Damp Room. I Asthma. Anasarca. Ankles, Knees, Chest. Pain, Swelling. No Fever. RedS <5;?. (58. April April June June Typhus. aphtha. Cyn.incbc. Cold. Wrists, Knees, I Pain, Back, Hips, Iswellinj Ankles. Not Rei Breast, Shoulders,Neck. 70 1 j Aug 1 1 Head, Back, Thighs, Knees Sweats. 7' 15 1 1780 "I Jan. Jan. Damp Shirt. 4th D. Lees, Ankles, Shoulders, Knees, Fingers J Swelling Sweats. RedS. 71. March jMarch Elbow, Wrists, Knees. Pain, Swelling 1 Chills, Sweats. Real S. 73- April | March Cold. 3d D. Hematu- ria. Pbrenitis. Shoulders, Hips, Thighs. Pain. I Chills, 1 Sweats. Black 6. 74- April April [ Cold. Back, Knees, Ankles, Head. Chills, Sweats. 75- aj. Aug. April Drink- ing. Pomitus Pbrenitis. Miliaria. Diarrb. Gastrodyn. Wrists, Ankles, Stomach. Pain, Swelling. Red. Chills. No Sweats. 7(5. Sept. Sept. tiamp Floor. 6 I hours. I 1 • Tussis. Tussis. Joints. Pain, Swelling. Chills, Sweats. Red S. ’ll Nov. oa. Leg, Thigh, Arm. No Chills, Burning. 78. 72. Nov. Nov. Catarrh. Catarrh. Hands, Hips, Sec. Pain, Swelling. Chills, Sweats. 1 79.1 1 Nov. J Nov. | Cold, j McnorrhaA Thumb, Arm, 1 / *163 ACUTE RHEUMATISM R. ter du. REMEDIES ORDERED. Cinchona Ordered. Other Symp- toms. Prior Reme- dies. V. s. 3 Leech Sudo. rificks. Salines. Anti- mony i ca J,ay discus. Day visit. Dose. Rcc. or Dd. ■ 1 Trans- lated to Sto- mach. Saline. ■ Acid. Vilr. Dec. R. K a R. 1 1 1 1 J i 1 50th. 1st. Infus. 3 if. ter die. R. I 6. Ant. Opio. Ant. Tart. 12th. 3d. Cinch Puhj, bis die. R. '•Ifld. 12. R. •Dtii. Ant. \ Opio. R. I*- ■ C Wrfi v.s. u VJ 4-1 Ant. J Tart.l R. ; ■ Not ■ nilil. L. ) I P.A.J. 10th. 1st. Inf. Per. Effert’. Pul'v. gr. x. b. 4. a 'Vii. Spin. | Mind. Puhj. Ant. gr.i-v. R. \ ■J -! Pul-v. 3 j. h. 4. R. I 1 ! xi*v. Hir. . H. Efferv. Puli’. Ant. 7- Hir. H. Efferv. Pulu. Ant. y- Dec. F.ffem. b. 6. R. Infld. X. J H. | Effer-j. 1 Puhj. Ant. y- j 15th. 10th. D. ^ix. Sue. Union Siii. R. I Not Bund. ' Hir. H. Efferu. Pull). Ant. 7- 2d. Dec. J ifs. Tinft. Si. Pulu.3j.b.a. R. .il 1 X. Spir. Mind. Ant. Pul'v. i ■ 0. Nitr. P.A.J. •v. la. 1 I 1 1 Spir. Mind. P.A-7 gr. ini. h. S- nth. id. Inf. Sift. TinA. s ifs. R. Spir. Mind. Pubv Ant. gr. iv. 1 R" r.s. Spir. Mind. 21 St. Dec. ~ ii.\64f 1st TABLE (Continued). CASES OF I oa. oa. Sweats. i. |ii.|iii.| itr. | v. | vi. | vii. ) viii. | ix. j x. ; xi. | xii. |xiii; JU S Fe- male, J < First Visit. Dis. Began- Cause. Latent period. Prior Diseases. Present Diseases. Inflamed Joints 1 and Muscles. |S Pain, welling. Chill*, sweats. Jrir.i So. 1781 Jan. Dec. Cold. Thighs, Legs, Feet, Knees. welling. Chills, Sweats. 1 1 s. Feb. Jan. Phrcnitu. Wrists, Wandering. Pain, welling. Sweats. Red. Si. June June Cold. ad D. General Stiffness and Pain. Sweats. 8j. July July Lying on Ground. Neck, Head, Shoulders, General. Chills, Sweats. 8+ Sept. July 1 1 Hands,Shoulder, Loins, Feet. ; 1 1 ' I 8 5- Dec. Dec. Miliaria. Feet, Knees, Hips, Wrists. Pain, Swelling Redness. Chills, Sweats. | Re t 86. 6. 1781 April April > - Feet. Legs, Wandering. 87. Dec. Nov. Hand, Wrist, Shoulder, Knee. Pain, Swelling. No Chill. Burning Sweat*. 88. Aug3, j June Neck, Face, Head, Eye. Chills, Sweats. 89. Dec. Dec. Cold. 3d D. Cynancbe. Ankles, &c. Breast. 90. Dec. Dec. Neck,Shoulders Breast, Hypochondre. Pain* Chills, Sweats. Re 91. 1784 Jan. Jan. Cold Repeat- edly. Pbrenitis. General, Joints, Wrists, Ankles, Knees, Hips, Hands. Pain, Swelling. No Sweats. Nc 9i. Feb. Feb. \ Breast Bone. Pain, Swelling. Chills, No Sweats. 94. 95■ 93- March Jan. Quotidi- ana. Hip, Thigh, Leg, Foot. Chills, Sweats. 18. April Feb. ■ Joints, particu- larly Knees. July July Wet to Skin. , 30 hours. Hcad,EackBonc, Loins, Legs. Chills, Sweats. 96. SO. Nov. 0 &. Drink- ing Spirits. Cold. Miliaria. Hands, Knees, Feet, Shoulders, Breast. Pain, Swelling Sweats. 1, 97• 17- 178S Feb. Dec. Cold,tra- velling in Hard Frost. FjH Rheum. Cbnon. Ankles, Hands, Knce^Shouldcrs Thorax. Pain, Little Swelling Sweats. t 98. 48. Back, Hams, Knees, Ankles, Feet, Heels, Elbows, Hand. Pain. ProfuseACUTE RHEUMATISM. 165 ter die. 1 REMEDIES ORDERED. r —, T* Cinchona Ordered. 1 xv. 1 xvi.lxvii. |xviii.|xix.| xx. | xxi. |*xB. I«'“-I«w.| xxv. ] xxvi. jxxviu jBlood. Other Symp- toms. Ptior Reme- dies. V. S. 3 Leech Sudo. rlficks. Salines. Anti- mony i CO Day liseas. Day Dose, visit. K.CC. or Dd. 1 1 1 1 18th. ISt. Dec. 3 ife- Pult). 9 /• b. 4. R. I 1 j 1 1 Pult). Ant.J. gr. Hi. b. 6. 1 1 Bark order- ed, but not taken. D. 1 1 Pult). Ant.J. gr. it). b.6. list. 1st. Dec. %ii. h.€. R. •viu | 1 1 Ant. Tart. i 1 3d. ISt. Pult). 9 j. 4r. d. R. J. Pult). Ip- Dec. $ti- 4r. die. R. 4- Pult). 7- gr. ti. 1). 6. 8th. 1st. Pult). 9J- b.6. R. Ant. Tart. TinCl. Opii. 1 R. 0 Infill. via. X. Pin. 1 Ipec.et Tina. Op. Pult). J- gr. it), b. 6. SOth. 28th. Dec. Per~ Tina. Guai. R. Infill. 1 1 vii. Pulv. * 36th. 3d. P. Zj.T. Ziii. Aq. J xii. M.^ii. 3r. d. l R’ jth. Dec. -tx. Putt), g J. 4 die. R. 90 Ant. opio. j Ant. Tart. 12th. 3d. P.g.x.T-Jii. Aq. J i/s. 6 die. 1, O H O Thick Crust. xvi. XV i. 1 H. Effort). Pult). Ant. J- gr. x. D. Thick Crust. 1 viii. ! 4th. ISt. Dec. Jir. Pult). 9 j. Guai. 3r. d. R. * 1 Dec. J i/s. Pult'. 3 j. b. 2. R. 1 1 4- Ant. Opio. 88 1 1 1 1 • 1 1 Spir. Mind. Ant. Tart Ant. Pttlt). 1 1 B‘ 8th. 3d. P.jii.T Jj. Aq. Zt)ii. M. f/- b. 2. Ir. 104 no 1 1 1 ter. 1 1 P.A.J \gr. it) | b. 6. 1 1 j ISt. Dec. Per. ID Senck. Pino. Anrinonii. R. 104 jjg *°1 k! 1 1 7- 1 Putt). 1 Ant. \ gr. it)-. 1 51 St. 3d. Dec. J i/s. Pulti. g. xt). ter die. R. Mll! 1 viii. Pul Dot. 15th. <5th. M’txt. Per.1st TABLE fContinuedJ CASES OF 106 welling. 1 larch Sweats. | | 1788 r6. 1' Joints. j. Pain, Jin. 1 i. |ii. |iii.| iv. | v. [ vi. | yjj. vnr. o’ *51 N 0 b <5 First Visit. Dis. Begar Cause. Latent period. Prior Diseases. Concomi- tant Diseases. Inflamed Joints and Muscles. Pain, Swelling. Chills. Sweats. — Urine, t S9 S. oa. Sept. 100 1 Dec. Dec. Dysuria. Shoulder, VVtist, Fingers, Ankles, Feet, Heel, Knee. RedS.> 101 | 1785 j April March Cold. Podagra. Rheum. | PtuLtgra. Feet, Kr.ee, Wrists. Pain, Swelling. No Fever. 102. 1 1 May May 1 Phremtis. Syncope. Limbs, Back, Head. Pain. Chills, Burning Sweats. 103 May April Cold. Podagra. Delirium. Feet, Hands. 104 June June 1 F.pistaoiis. Delirium. Limbs, Hips, Feet, Head. r . io;. i“ July July Cold. 2?uotidi• ana. Head, Side, Limbs, Shoulder. Chills, Burning — 10(5. Odt. June I Quo r Mi- ana. Wrists, Ankles, Knees, Hips. Pain, No Swelling 107. Dec. Dee. Frost & Snow. Rheum. Acutui. Joints. Pain, Swelling. Chills, Sweats. 108. Dec. Dec. Cold. 4th D. Frallura. Delirium. Languor fere ad deliquium. | Loins, Knee, Foot, Shoulder, Arms, Toes, Thumbs. Pain. Chills, Sweats. 109- I7S7 May April Urticaria. Knees, Ankles, Wrists. Pain. Chills, Sweats. no. May May Wet to Skin twice. 5 hours. Syncope. Legs, Knees, Thighs, Back. Pain. Chills, Sweats. hi. 43- June ■ May Neck, Wrists, Shoulders,Hands Hips, Knees. Pain, Swelling. Sweats. 112. July July kbsumatis- miu. Ankles, Knees, Shoulders. • "3- 48. July July Damp House. Legs. Pain, j Chills, Sweats. H4 <5. Aug. Aug. 1 F.pUtaxii. Throat, Head, Back, Thigh. Chills, Sweats. IIS. 1 Sept. Sept. 1 i Joints, Epigastrium. Pain, welling. Sweats. 11ST ACUTE RHEUMATISM. ' R., 1 Ul'V. g. xt\ REMEDIES ORDERED. Cinchona Ordered. Blood. Ollier Symp- toms. Prior Reme- dies. V s. 3 Leech Sudo. r Kicks. Salines. Anti- mony 1 1 ^ CO Day disc as. Day visit. Dose. K..C. or Dd. 35th. 1st. Pulp. gr. x. ter die. R. fin. JP- TinPl. op. ' R. Ant. Tan. 1 R. Hir. Spir. Mind. Campb. PuVv. Ant. gr. ini. B. 7th. | 3<J- Dec. J i/s. Tinci. 3 i/s. R. 1 1 1 1 Dec. teT Tin£i. not taken. D. 1 1 • 6th. 1st. Dee. Tina. C5* Puln. R. 1 1 1 1 1 * Jul. Effer-v. Pulls. 7- gr. ini. b. 4- \ 6th. 3d. Dec. S'/s. TinD. 3 b. x. R.. 1 150. ISt. D.'iii.T-Zii. Puini. 9 j. b- -x. , R. Spir. Mind. Pul'V. 7. gr. i'v. b. 6 i ath. j 8th. Dec. jj. Pul'll, gr. X. M. h. 2. R. Dec. 3 i/s. Camp. gr. iii. b. z. D. t i i 4 id. ISt. Put. gr. xx. Guuiac. ter die. R. > Puhi. y. gr. iii. h. 5. u 4'h. Mixt. Peru'u. R. 1 1 35th. ISt. 0-5 j. T.3J. Puiv. gr. x. M. b. 4. Infld. 1 I Pui-v. gy. 4 die. B. I year. ISt. Pul-v. g j. Guai.,r. niii. ter die. R. 1 1 ' H. Effcr'u. ioth. 6th. Dee. tef Extr. R. ! Pk/d.| % 1 gr. or.! 8th. ISt. Dec. Si. T.Guai. 3/s. M. b. i. R- Dec. Si. M. boi\ 2.MS 1st TABLE (Continued.) CASES OF Tain. | July June 1 Shoulders. Sweats. Fingers, Feet, i- {ii. jiii.| ir, v. u It U-3 r e be First Visit. Dis. Began Cause. Latent period. Prior Diseases. Concomi- tant Diseases. Inflamed Joints and Muscles. Pain, Swelling. Chills, Sweats. Urine.' >»7- May Feb. , Feet, Shoulders, Wrists, Thighs. Pain. Sweats. RcdS. 118. March April Joints. Pain, Swelling. ted. Sweats. RcdS. np. 1789 March April 1 Loins, Hips, Knees, Arms, Legs, Hands, Feet. Pain, Swelling. Sweats. 110. March March Cephalal- gia- Knees, Ankles, :Arms. Chills,. Sweats* III. June Ankles. Pain, Swelling, Chills, Sweats. 112. Aug. July Syncope. Menorr- hagia. Neck. 113- oa. Oft. | Foot, Ankles, Knees, Thighs, Hips. U4- Dee. Dec. Syncope. Delirium. j Joints. Swelling Chills, Sweats. Red S. ’* Dec. Sept. Syncope. Ischuria. Feet, Hands, Back, Hips, Head. Pain, No Swelling No Sweats. ii6. 6l. 1790 Jan. Nov. Wet to Skin with Sleet. 6 hours. | Ascites. | Icterus.. Breast, Shoulder, Thigh,Back. Profuse Sweats. RcdS. 117. 16. Jan. Dec. Dancing. 1 r Head, Neck, Arm. Sweats. 1 128. Jan. Jan. Side. Chills, Sweats. up. Jan.. Jan. % Catarrh. All Joints. 130. z3- April April ! 1 Wrists, Elbows, Shoulders, Loins, Hips, Knees,. Ankles. Pain, Swelling. Chills, Sweats.. I3I>. Sept. July Cold. - Neck, Head, Shoulders, Knee. n i. I Sept. Sspt. Cold. Fever in 12 hours. Rhetiui. in 24 h. Hguotidi- ana. Hip, Thigh, Back, Ankle, Heel. * 1 Sweats. 133- 1791 March Wading in River. 4th D. Pbr. Diar. Pncu.Lang. fere ad Del. Joints, Breast, Limbs. Pain. 3wcats.. 1.34-ACUTE RHEUMATISM 169 REMEDIES ORDERED t— ^ Cinchona Ordered. 1 | xv. |xv?.|xvii. |xviii.|xix.| xx. [ xxi. |Xxii. |xx»i.|xxiv.| xxv. 1 xxvi. [xxvii. <j; Blood Otfiei Symp toms Prior Remc dies. V. S. Leecl Sudo rificks Salines Anti- mony Bath. SSL i ■>“• tec. or Dd. 1 1 Ant. Opio. Pul'v. Iff Tlnct. 28th 1st. Dec. Puloi. Tin3. Guai. M 1 8 7 7 Spir. Mind. Pul'll. Ant. gr. ai. h. 6. 10th. 3d. Puloi. 9 j. b. 3. laSe. R. 4- | 15th 1st. Dec. J ifs. TinS. 3/. Puloi. gr. x. R. 1 1 « Puloi. Oft. ter die, laSe. R„ 1 D.3X.T.3H. Puloi. g. xii. ter die. R. _ Puloi. J}/. 4 die. R. — V.$. bis. 13- Puloi. Ant. gr. i'u. ter. 13th. 1st. Puloi. 3 /. h. 3. R- Dec.^onifs. T.Guai. J/r. Puloi. 3 H. M. */. 4. d. D. Infld. k -i 1 1 1 Pula/. Ant. gr. ai. b. 6. 90th. 1st. P. gr. xx. Acet. Seill. gutt. xx.idfc. bor. 4. R. — I 1 Spir. Mind. Campb. Puloi. 7- gr. ii. b. 4. Util. 3d. Pul'v. 3 ifs. Aq. M. J 'Vl. R. Sth. 1st. Mixt. Peruoi. R. R. i i 1 1 Puloi. g. xoi. ter die. Infid. Langu- or fere ad del. iquium Puloi. Ant. h. 3. 9th. lit. Puloi. gr. x. b. 3. laSe. Puloi. g. XX. b. 3. R. - 1 1 4- Ant. Tart. Opio. 2 M. 1st. Puloi. 3 ft. bis die. R. — - 1 1 I H. Ejfcrm. Puloi. Ant. 7. 7th. P. g. X. 1 3■ E>- 3d- T. Zib.x. Puloi. gr. x. b. 3. D. R. 1 nfli. r. s. 7 times ! 1 [ Pulz. gr. x. id. xx. b. 3. 1170 1st TABLE (Continued.) CASES OF i. |ii. |iii.| iv. | t. | vi. | vii. | -riii. | ix. \ x. | xi. | xii. Mile. . iJ v 73 6 O be < First Visit. Di*. Began Cause. Latent period. Prior Diseases. Concomi- tant Diseases. Inflamed Joints and Muscles Pain, Swelling. Chilli, 1 Urine. Sweats. 1 ** 135- 9. July June Rbeum. Acutus. bis. 1 1 Shoulders, Arms, Wrists, Hands, Fingers, Knees, AnTdes, Feet. Pain, Swelling. Sweats. 136, 18. lept. Sept. | Joints, Knees, Hands, Feet. Ked Swelling. Sweats. »37- ■3>- >791 Aug. July tff] Joints. Pain, reduced. Sweats. .38. "1 Aug. Aug. Pbrenitis. Head, Back, Knees, Legs, Belly, Feet. 139. 1793 Feb. Jan. Hip, Pelvis. 1 Fever. 140. Mirch March Hands, Back, Side.Knees.Legs, 141. 10. July July Wet Feet and Cloaths. 3d. Feet, Hands, Wrists. Pain, Swelling. Chills. | 141. 15- Aug. Aug. Feet, Knees, Wrists. Pain. Sweats, j 144. 143. 1 Aug. July 1 * 1 Loins, Thigh. Chills, Sweats. 1794 May April Cold. . hour. Limbs, Head. Chills, Sweats. 145. 12. 1795 Jan. Jan. • Rbeum. Acutui. Face, Shoulders, Wrists, Elbows, Ankles, Feet, Hip. Pain, Swelling, reduced. Chills, Sweats. 146. 6. May May Knee. Pain, Swelling. 147- Odl. July Shoulder, Knees. Pain. Swelling. 1 J 148. II. Dec. Nov. Cold. \ Neck, Shoulders. Pain. Sweats. 149. 1796 April April Cold. 5th. Ankles, Knees, Wrists, Shoulder, Elbows. Pain, Swelling. Chills, Sweats. 150. May May Feet, Toes, Ankles, Knees, Hip, Hands, Shoulders. Pain, Swelling. Sweats. 151. 13- June May Cold. Feet, Legs, Thighs, Arms. Swelling July Walking in Fields after Dancing I6h. 1 Shoulder, Sternum, Knee. | Pain. 1 1h. 4. i Ant. Ant. 1 Jth. Pul'V. gr. x. Pul-v. gr. x. 1 7 th. i ' • ' Ant. Pul-v. gr. -v. R. 1 Jth. R. b. 4. sun gr. Hi. I R. in R. i 1st. } um. 1st. R. 1st. Pul-v. gr. x. II inf. id. rificks. visit. | I Pul-v. g. x-v. Pul-v. gr. x. diseas. R. 5th. h. 4 10th. Ant. mony 16th. Dose. j >1 her die. 1 b. -31 id. ACUTE RHEUMATISM. R. 1 h. 3. b* i* h. 3. R. I3t, I Ant. Of. Pul-v. gr. x. 1 Pul'v. gr. x. R. > Ant. 7. 1st. 1st. 3d. 8th. M.lii. P. A. g. iii. Deliri- R. ISC. B Pul-v. gr. x-v. 7• R. R. 4- Eff'em. R. Jth. Stlu R. R. 22 REMEDIES ORDERED. Cinchona Ordered. Other Symp- toms. Turn Reme- dies. V.-6, Sudo. Rec. or Dd. i Leech Salines. . Anu- Day Day ... ad. x, b. 3. Deliri- • gr. ii. i T \ i Pul-v. gr. -v. * >ri- .. » ■ 14th. 1st. b..3. - 1 i 1 Pul'V. Ant. gr. i'v. Pul-v. J;. 1 gr. -v. t 3...: . 1 Pul-v. 1 . Pul'V. Ant. gr. 'v. b. 4. 1 ’ Pul-v. 9/. quater die. i Pul-v. in Aq. Mentb. • ■ Pul'V. Ant. gr.'v. b. jom. Dec. %-vifi. 1 Tina. 7 i/s. 1 -M. Ji. ter die. r i unu P.A. ad mini. • 1 b. 3. Spir. Mind. 1 . *V • ' . • • Infld. Pul-v. Ant. gr.-vii. b. jom. Pul-v. 9>. ter die. ! 1 iitli. Dec. 3-vi. Aq. Men.^ii. Pin. Ant.g.-v. b. 3. ! Pul-v. Ant. gr. i-v. b. J. Pul^. 3/. ter die. p. , Ant. | x. Jac. 1 ~7ul. " Pul-v. gr. -v. h. 4. b. i. gr. i-v gr. i. Spir. Mind. Cnmpb. 1 \Pulv. gr.ii. 1 £.4. — b. 2 I've. a. io , I !1st TABLE (Continued.) CASES OF m ii. |iii.| iv. 1 7- 1 | vii. | viii. | ix. J X- xi. xii. |xi Male. . u o« U g O be C First Visit. Dis. Begar Cause. Latent period. Prior Diseases. 1 Conconii- 1 tant Diseases. Inflamed Joints and Muscles Pain, Swelling. Chills, 'wcat9. Ur; •53. '797 Feb. Feb. Wet. hoars. Hands, Feet, Elbow. Pain, Swelling. No Chills, Sweats. 1 ? April March Cotton for Worsted Stocking Feet, Ankles, Hands. Pain, Swelling. Chills, Sweats. J 55- 3* May April Exposure to Cold Air when Swcaiing Feet, Ankles, Knees, Shoulders, Hands, Hips, Wrists, Elbows. Pain, Swelling. 156. 30 May Limbs, Side. Pain, Swelling. ! 137- June April Fingers, Wrists, Knees, Elbows. Pain, Swelling. No Sweat. No Fever. 158. Si- July Oft. f Limbs, Back. Pain. Chills, Burning. Re 159. 22. Nov. oa. 1st, wad- ing{day. ad, Wet Feet. Rheum. Acutus. Catarrhui. Ankles, Hands, Knees. Hips, Back, Shoulders. Pain, Swelling. Chills, Sweats. Re- - 1 160. Nov. Nov. 1 EE Back, Elbows, Fingers, Feet, Knees. Pain, Swelling. Chills, Sweats. 161. 1798 Jan. Jan. 1 V Knees, Ankles, Wrists, Neck. Pain, Swelling, Redness. Sweats. 162. Feb. Jan. Cold caugh t. K56 hours. Rheum. Chron. l Hips, Shoulders, Knees, Ankle, Hand. Pain, Swelling. Sweats. 163. 5a. Feb. Jan. - 1 Rheumatism. * 164. 18. Nov. oa. Damp Bed after Dancing 3 h. Ankles, and other Joints. Pain, swelling. Sweats. I(5J. 1799 April Jan. Pogadra. Podagra. Back, I.rins, Hips, Ankles. Chills, Sweats. 16(5. 1800 Sept. Sitting in a current of Air when Sweating fh. Neck, Knees, Back, Sternum, Thighs. Pain. Chills, Sweats. Rc 167. Nov. July Tussis. Ankles, Legs, Thighs. I Pain, No | Swelling- Cold, Not Chill. i<58. i 1 Dec. Ankles, Knees, Shoulders, Hips. Pain, Stiffness. Swelling Sweats. > 369 i8or Sept. Aug. Rheum. Nephritis. Loins, Shoulders Hips; no other Joints. Chills, Sweats. 170. r«03 July • Influenza. Tussis. Shoulders, Back Wrists. Feet, Arm,Thigh,Knet Hips, Neck, Legs Pain, Swelling 1 Chills, I Sweats.ACUTE RHEUMATISM 173 Efferv. R. gr. ii. Remedies ordered. , * , Cinchona Ordered. xir.| xv | xvi.|xvii. (xviii.|xix.| xx. | xxi. | xxk. |xxiii.|xxir. 1 xxv. | xxvi. jxxvii. «• m l Blood. Other Sy np- toms. Prior Reme- dies. V s. 3 Sudo. Leec j riticks. Salines. Anti- mony •s' 25 Day diseaa. Oay visit. Dose. Rec. or Dd- 73 1st. 1st. Pulv.gr. xv. b. 3. R. S4 Deliri- um. ijtit. 1st. P. g. x. h. 3. a. d. 3 if*. TinA. 3j. P. g. x.b. 3 I 1" H a • •Pulls. Ant. g. vii. b- 4- i8th. 1st. 6th. Pulv. 9 a ad 3 ft. juater di e. R. 120 6 Pulv. Ant, gr. v. b. 4. aid. ( id. Pulv. gr. x. ad xv. h. 3. Pulv. Ant. Jac. Pulv- 9 j. ter die. — 63d. 1st. Pulv. gr. x. ad xv. ter die. So *4 34 no 1 1 1 •via. X. i P. Ant. Opio. IT. Effcrv. Pubu. Ant. g. iv. h. s. 2d. Pulv. g. XV. b. 4. R. 1 1 • i i Pulv. Ant, gr. v. bAj>-- Pulv. Ant. 17th. ISt. Pulv. gr. <77. h. 3. — Pulv. Ant. Sth. ad. Pulv. gr. x. b. 4. Pulv. g. XV. h. 2. R. Pulv. Ant. gr. v. b. 4. 11st. ISt. Pulv. gr. xx. h. 4. io8 84 S. bis. P. Ant. V. s. bis. P. Ant. Pulv. Ant. gr. it b. 4. B Dec. 1 ift. Pulv. g. xii. .juater die. R. \ i 3 M. 3d. Dee. $ i/s. Tina. 3,7. Eff. R. So j 4- Spir. Mind. Campb. P.A. g. Hi. h. 4. ad. Pulv. pr. x. ad xx. b. 6. R. IOS H. Ffferv. B 91 1 1 pi *vt. 7 6 1 I Pulv. Ant. gr. Hi. b. 4. l^Oth. I3t. ■4 Dec. 3 ii. Timl. 3 ii. P.g.x. terd. R. £>uas- Jia. P. Ant. H. Efferv. Pulv. Ant. B 40th. ISt. D- 3 ift- Putv. gr. v. quzter die. R. 7« 1 1 H. Pulv. Ant. b-4- Pulv. g. X. b. 3. laae. Pulv. g. XV. b. 3.28 63 1 35 17 4- TABLES. lid TABLE. I REFERENCE TO PAGE 23*. Age of Patients in Acute Rheumatism„ Ages. Males. Females. Total. o— 5 I I 3 0 w 1 o 3 2 5 II—15 X 4 5 16—20 10 4 14 31—25 1 S I 9 26—30 1 3 4 3*—35 3 0 3 36—40 1 2 3 41—50 3 6 9 51—60 2 2 4 61—70 1 3 4 73 1 0 I175 TABLES. Hid TABLE. REFERENCE TO PAGE 22. In what months the Acute Rheumatism prevails. First Visit. Disease Began. Patients. Patients. December - - A l8 - - - 16 January - - 18 » - ai February - - - ia - - - IX March - - - 16 - - - 9 April - • A 19 A - - i3 83 75 May - - ^4 - A - ii June - - - *3 m - 11 July - - - 15 - 14 August ia m ’ 5 September - 10 i pt 8 O&ober - - 10 - 13 November •A 1a “ *3 86 75 Total m A 169 150 NTABLES. 116 IV* TABLE. REFERENCE TO PAGE 29- The Latent Period of the Acute Rheumatism; being the time which elapses between the exposure to cold and commencement of the Fever. No. of 1st Table. Cases. Hours. No. 166 - I - - X 3 144 - I - - I 153 - - I - - 3 no 164 J m 2 “ 5 76 t _ * , » A 126 / - 2 0 13a - I * - - 12 15a - I - - *l6 95 - - I - - 3° 162 - - - 56 11 Days inclusive. Hours. 82 - - I - - ad. being less than 48 y A 65 ^ iff 89V . - 5 - - 3d. being less than 72 J33\ i\iJ 1 r-* W 'L 1 ' 2 4th. being less than 96 00 0 149 - - 1 - - 5 th. being less than 120 20TABLES 177 yth TABLE. REFERENCE to page 30. Preceding cind Concomitant Diseases. Conco- Preceding mitant GENERA. Diseases. Diseas. *i Quotidiana - - I 4 5 Typhus - - - 9 Phrenitis vel De- O I liriunl - - - O 16 io Cynanche - 5 ° i ii Pneumonia - - O I 19 Nephritis - I a 32 Rheum. Acutus Chronicus 6 3 0 0 22/3 Ischias - 0 I aa S Cephalalgia - 0 I 34 Podagra - - - 3 3 34 x Nodositas - - 2 I a6 Erysipelas - - O 1 31 Miliaria - - - O 9 33 Urticaria - - - O 1 35 Aphtha - - - O 1 35 x Purpura * - O i' 36 Epistaxis - 1 a 37 Htemnptysis- - O 1 37 a Phthisis - - 1 I 31 Menorrhagia - 1 1 39 0 Hsematuria 0 1 * 1 c* 2 5° Conco- Preceding mitant GENERA. Diseases. Diseal. 40 Catarrhus - - 1 6 40 x Tussis - - ■- 1 3 40 /3 Influenza - 1 0 41 Dysentena - - 0 1 44 Syncope - - 44 Languor fere ad 0 5 deliquium - - 0 I 45 y Vomitus - - 0 a 50 Convulsio - - 1 X 55 Asthma - - - 1 0 56 Dyspnoea - 0 3 61 Diarrhoea - 1 6 63 Hysteria - - - 0 1 75 Anasarca- - - 76 ?hie gmatia do- 0 1 lens - - - 0 1 79 Ascites - - - 0 1 91 Ifterus - - - 0 a 123 Dysuria - - - 0 1 124 Ischuria - - 0 6 34 30 X 36 50 86 * The numbers prefixed to the Genera refer to Cullen’s Nosology; and the Greek letters denote the varieties which I have annexed to these Genera.TABLES. i 78 VIth TABLE. REFERENCE TO PAGE 34. The Joints and Muscles inflamed by Acute Rheumatism, Joints. Cases. Muscles. Cases. Cases. Knees - - - 72 Legs - - - 21 Teeth, Gums a Shoulders - - 43 Head - - - 20 Ilium - - - I Ankles- - - 42 Chest, Breast, Pelvis - - - 5 Hands - - - 38 Thorax - - ao Limbs - - - 8 Feet - . - 38 Thighs - - 20 Wandering - 4 Wrists - - - 36 Arms - - - ia General - a Hips - - - 31 Side - - - 6 — Back - - - 46 Belly - - - 3 aa Neck - - - 16 ! Epygastrium - a Joints - - - 411 Loins - - - 14 1 Hypochondre 2 Muscles - - 1X2 Elbows - 10 | Face - - - 3 . — Fingers - 9 Eye - - - - 1 545 Heel - - 4 Throat - - - 1 Toes - - 2 ; Groin - - - 1 Ham - - - a j Joints - - - 28 J 1 xia 411 i VIIth TABLE.—THE PULSE. REFERENCE TO PAGE 40. Number of _ Cases. Pulse. 52 l 6o—71 5 72— 15 *4—95 2 3 Number of Cases. Pulse. 96—IO7 ^9 I08—XI9 13 120—125 15 126 IA CLINICAL HISTORY OF THE NODOSITY OF THE JOINTS.I - . ' •• ■ V : ; j i<( uov-: !i...A CLINICAL HISTORY II. It OF THE NODOSITY OF THE JOINTS. PART SECOND. I. r | ''HE term Rheumatism has been JL applied without fufficient discri- mination to a great variety of disorders, which, besides pain, have but few symp- toms that connect them together. A case happened to occur to my ob- servation at a very early period, which, compared with others at subsequent times, convinced me that there is one painful and troublesome disease of the joints of a peculiar nature, and clearly distinguish- able from all others by symptoms mani- festly different from the Gout, and from both Acute and Chronick Rheumatism.CLINICAL HISTORY OF THE II. It is now (1812) about 33 years ago that I wrote a description of this disorder in a paper winch was read to my very ingenious and much-lamented friends, the late Dr. Percival and Dr. Dobson, at Warrington ; where for four- teen years we used to meet from Man- chester, Liverpool, and Chester, four times a year, in order to explain our pro- fessional difficulties and success, and to consult together what might be the best remedies for such dangerous disorders as had occurred in our pradtice. My paper on this subje<5t has since been communi- cated to the late Dr. Wall of Worcester, Dr. Falconer, and, as opportunities offered, to many other medical friends. % . • ■ ft *r r C * -1 r III. This disease, which I think may properly be denominated Nodosity of the Joints, has occurred to my observation in thirty-four out of ten thousand Jive hundredNODOSITY OF THE JOINTS. hundred and forty-nine patients, or one in three hundred and ten. (p. 14.) IV. These Nodes are almost peculiar to women, and generally begin about the period when the Menses naturally cease. Out of the 34 cases, there was only one man. His age is not noted, but he appeared to be between 50 and 60 years old. He ascribed the complaint to a fall that had violently strained his wrists and fingers, which were the only seat of the Nodes in this case. But in the female constitution it is seldom confined to so few joints. Only 3 out of 33 women had Nodes during the period of regular menstru- ation. The ages of these patients are not noted; two of them appeared to be between 30 and 40. One of them had suffered T2 abortions, but her Menses had184 CLINICAL HISTORY OF THE had become regular for six months pre- vious to the commencement of this dis- ease. The third patient seemed to be near 50 ; in this case, the Nodes appeared 3 years before menstruation had ceased. \ . All the 34 patients (except 2 above mentioned) were above 41 years old. In some, the Nodes appeared as soon as the Menses became irregular* in most instances at the time when they ceased ; in a few, several years after this period. The most common date of their commencement was when the patients were between 5 1 and 60 years of age; but two cases of Nodosity are recorded, which began after this late period of life. \ 1. Ihe most correct idea of the seat ol this disease may be formed from a SynopticalNODOSITY OF THE JOINTS. 185 Synoptical Vieiv of the Joints affected by Nodes. Joints. Patients. Joints. Patients. Fingers 13 J Shoulders 4< Hands - 7 >c29 Neck - - 3 Wrists - 9J Elbows — 3 Knees - - 10 Hips - - - 3 Feet - — - 6 Heel 1 Ankles - - - 6 Leg 1 51 Joints - - - 8 23 51 v 74 Hence it appears that the Fingers are principally affected. Besides the 13 cases where they are distinctly noted, most probably all the others, where Hands and Joints in general are only named, include the Fingers. Outot the 34- cases, I find two where the Knees only were attacked ; in all, or inCLINICAL HISTORY OF THE 186 in nearly all the rest, the Hands, chiefly the Fingers, were probably affedted. As far as my experience teaches, this disease seems not at all to affedt the Muscles; for though the Leg is once mentioned, yet, in the same case, the Feet and Ankles are noted, whence pain might strike up the leg. VII. Printing the Tables, especially the first Table of Cases of /lcute Rheum- atism, has been so tedious and trouble- some a business, that.in this, and probably in future Clinical Histories (if any should appear) no more such Tables may be published. However, the reader may be assured that it is my aim that all my observations should be founded on fadts, faithfully and impartially recorded, and systematically arranged, with as much accuracy as circumstances would permit. No'NODOSITY OF THE JOINTS. 187 No vague gratuitous remark is or will be hazarded. Indeed I cannot understand how con- clusions can be so well deduced from faCts, as when they are classed in a tabular form. The Tables on the preceding pages maybe passed over by some readers, as affording but little entertainment or instruction; but I do not regret that I have printed them ; as they exhibit Proofs and Illustrations of the frequency of symptoms, and the degrees of success with which the remedies have been adminis- tered, with more accuracy than any other arrangement with which I am acquainted. VIII. In this disease the ends of the bones, the periosteum, and ligaments, one or all, which form the joint, gradually increase. I hese Nodes are not separate tumours, but feel as if there were an en- largement ot the bones themselves. This pointof ( 88 CLINICAL HISTORY OF THE point might be anatomically ascertained without any difficulty or doubt. These diseased joints generally suffer pain, especially^ night, but in a less degree than might be expedited from such a considerable morbid change. They often feel sore to the touch. In one case, the patient was attacked with severe spasmodick pains. As the disease in- creases, the joint becomes distorted, and perhaps, in bad inveterate cases, even dislocated; its motion becomes gradually more injured. In a few patients a crack- ling noise was perceived in the joint, when in motion, particularly in the neck. The skin seldom or never appears inflamed. XI. Til is disease has hitherto passed under the name ot Gout or Rheumatism, or perhaps has been most commonly, cal- led Rheumatick Gout. But, as several advantages would result from a separationNODOSITY OF THE JOINTS. of this disorder from others with which it has been confounded, I have ventured to call it the Nodosity oj the Joints. Un- der this application, a§ a distindt Genus, it will become a more diredt objedt of medical attention. The Nodes appear most nearly to re- semble Gout. Both of them are attended with pain and swelling of the joints : but they differ essentially in many dis- tinguishable circumstances. 1. In the Gout, the skin and other integuments are generally inflamed, as denoted by pain which is often acute, soreness to the touch, redness and swelling of the soft parts, but in no respedt like the hardness of bone. CA. The Gout attacks the patient in paroxysms of a few days, weeks, or months, and has complete intermissions at first for years, but after- wards for shorter periods. 3. The Gout attacks men much more frequently than women190 CLINICAL HISTORY OF THE women. In all these 3 circumstances the Nodes entirely disagree with the Gout. These Nodes are clearly distinguish- able from Acute Rheumatism, because they are not attended with Fever. The tumour of the joints is much harder, more durable, and less painful than the Nodes. They are totally different from Chronick Rheumatism, because the latter chiefly affedls the muscles, and is sel- dom attended with any swelling of the affedted parts. This observation was published in the first Edition. I can now confirm it by Fadfs which I had recorded, and have since more accurately 'examined. In order to determine how far my recollec- tion relative to this point was true and accurate, I examined the 300 cases of Chronick Rheumatism before mentioned (§. I.) Out of this number there were only 14* Cases in which it was noted that theNODOSITY OF THE JOINTS. 191 O of the pained part was swelled. Upon more accurate examination, even these 14 cases did not appear to be Chronick Rheumatism. After an attentive con” sideration of the symptoms, they weie all more properly classed either as Gout or Acute Rheumatism, or Nodosity ot the Joints respectively. In a collection of medical papers which is soon to be published by a Society of very learned Physicians, I havemorefully entered into an explanation of these circumstances.* So that, as far as my own experience is conclusive, it may be inferred, that the seat of Chronick Rheumatism is never swelled. Does not this appear to be a sufficient reason why the Nodosity * While this page was in the press, I had the satis- faction to receive a proof sheet of my paper on the dis- crimination of Chronick Rheumatism from otherpainful diseases of the joints and muscles, to be published in the4thvol. of the Medical Transactions by the_ Royal College of Physicians.192 CLINICAL HISTORY OF THE of the Joints ought to be separated from Chronicle Rheumatism ? In two or three cases, the Nodosity appeared to alternate with a Colick of the Stomach, G'astrodynia ; and in one instance with an Asthma. If these few examples of the translation of the disease to and from the viscera be confirmed by future observations, they would prove that the Nodes were in their nature more allied to the Gout than Rheumatism. They bear a nearer analogy to the former than the latter disease in another circumstance. They more commonly attack persons in the higher and middle, than in the lowest class of life. How- ever, it is not exclusively a disease of any rank. I have seen it, though seldom, among the patients of the Chester Infir- mary. But this remark is founded on general recollection, not an induction from facts, as I have not yet classed the casesNODOSITY OF THE JOINTS. cases of these patients under their proper genera; otherwise the comparative fre^ quency of the disease might be more nearly ascertained. I do not recollect that, in cases of Nodes, any notice is taken of that pink-coloured sediment in the urine, which appears in Gout, and in Acute Rheumatism. REMEDIES. X. It is proper to observe that, out of the 34 patients above-mentioned, only 18 used any remedy for the Nodes; the other 1(5 cases were combined with more serious disorders, which claimed prefer- able attention. For this complaint I have ordered Guaiacum in 10 cases; Cinchona in 9 ; Leeches in 9; Warm-Bathing and Pump- ing at Bath in 9, at Buxton in 2; Va- pour-BathCLINICAL HISTORY OF THE pour-Bath in 2; Sea-Bath in 1 ; Anti- mony in 5 ; Mezcreum, Aconite, and externally Oleum jccoris aselli cum Camphora,andbootikins,in one case each. As the Nodosity of the Joints has not hitherto claimed the particular attention of medical men, we cannot reasonably expert that a full trial should have been made of the remedies best adapted to remove or alleviate its symptoms. XI. As far as my experience extends, most benefit was derived from the Warm- Bath, and a stream of warm water, with repeated application of Leeches, on the diseased joints. In several very bad cases, these remedies afforded manifest relief. The Leeches appear to be an important part of this mode of treatment. In one of the worst examples of this disease which I have seen, above-mentioned,, (viii. p. 157,) whereNODOSITY OF THE JOINTS. where near 40 joints were affected, the benefit of Leeches could not be obtained; as they always occasioned a painful in- flammation of the skin near the wounds. But, even in these untoward circum- stances, there was no reason to suspect that this inflammation of the skin had any injurious effect upon the joints. However, it unavoidably prevented the repetition of Leeches. This patient had 17 Warm-Baths, 15 Vapour-Baths, and 12 dry Pumpings; but her diseased joints were so numerous that the last remedy could be only employed to a few of them. By this mode of treat- ment she experienced relief; but in so formidable a disease, which for ten years had been constantly increasing with uncommon rapidity, the trial was in- adequately made for too short a time. It should have been continued for many months or even years. If these reme- dies196 CLINICAL HISTORY OF THE dies had been much longer used, and especially if their efficacy could have been assisted by Leeches, better success might have been expected. She after- wards made a trial of Sea-Bathing, which afforded no relief. XII. In one case, immediately after thecessation of the Menses, Nodes of the Fingers and Knees had commenced, and continued to increase for four years, with tumours which occasioned an ap- parent distortion of the joints, and con- siderably impeded their motion. This patient received manifest advantage from the Warm-Bath, pumping the diseased joints, and repeated application of Leeches to them. After an absence of five years, I had the satisfaction to see this Lady return to Bath, perfectly free from every symptom of Nodosity; and without the least suspicion that any other disease \NODOSITY OF THIS JOINTS. disease had been substituted in its place. It is however proper to say, that she had, with the external remedies above-men- tioned, also drank the Bath water, and taken Guaiacum. XIII. It’ Warm-Baths and a warm Douche on the Nodes afford benefit, they might perhaps be employed with most advantage at Bath or Buxton ; but many valuable Matrons, afflieffed with this dis- ease, cannot conveniently leave their own homes, and desert their domestick duties* Without considering the ques- tion what superior advantages these na- turally warm Fountains may possess, I should advise such patients to use a Bath at 92 up to 9G degrees of heat for 10, 15, 20, up to 30 minutes, every other day. Let a Douche of water from 105 to 113 degrees of heat fall upon the Nodes for four or five minutes (being equalCLINICAL HISTORY OF THE 19S equal in time to about 200 strokes of the pump) every clay, out of a vessel of a sufficient capacity for the purpose. If, as is probable, the force with which the warm stream is usually impelled upon the affected part, be conducive to its salutary effects, even this advantage might be obtained by a moveable pump, or by placing the vessel about 10 or 12 feet high, and conducting the current though a proper pipe upon the Nodes. However, as so little knowledge has been practically ascertained upon this subject, I should advise an attentive and comparative trial of Bathing, and Douching, at different temperatures, from 81 to 113 degrees of heat, always following the patient’s report, what warmth agrees best, and is of most service in alleviating the pain, swelling, and impeded motion of the joints. XIV. ItNODOSITY OF THE JOINTS. XIV. It may be difficult to give any specifick directions in respeCt to Leeches, as to their number and the frequency of their application. These points should be regulated according to the magnitude of the disease and the strength of the pa- tient. In bad cases, from 4 to 10 might be used with advantage to the affeCted joints once or twice a week. In one of the worst cases of this malady, which has occurred to my observation, Leeches were occasionally applied for several years,, so as to alleviate the disorder. In describing the Nodosity of the Joints, I have noted (p. 160) some cir- cumstances in which it seemed to have * nearer resemblance to Gout than Rheu- matism. When made the particular obje'Cl of medical attention, it will not, I hope, be found to bear a still more interesting similitude to the former, in the p200 CLINICAL HISTORY OF THE the difficulty of discovering efficacious remedies to cure or relieve it. XV. A justly-celebrated Physician has published an excellent Essay on the “ Management proper at the cessation of the Menses" in the 5th volume of the Lon- don Medical Observations and Inquiries ; yet takes no notice of the Nodosity of the Joints, as connected with this change in the female constitution. But, in this Clinical History of Diseases, my aim is to relate what my own practical expe- rience lias suggested. It is no part of my plan to repeat what others have written, much less to criticise the worksof medical authors. Indeed a comparative view of fads, accurately recorded by different observers, might afford much useful instruction ; but, my time being other- wise engaged, I cannot enter into these disquisitions in such a manner as wouldNODOSITY OF THE JOINTS. would give satisfaction either to the reader or myself. XVI. There is one distressful circum- stance which distinguishes this disease. It has no intermission, and but slight remis- sions. For during the remainder of the patient’s life, the Nodes gradually enlarge, impeding more and more the motion of the limb. The malady spreads to other joints, without leaving or producing even any alleviation in those which had been previously attacked. In one case, I find that the fingers, wrists, knees, ankles, elbows, shoulders, neck, and hips, were all affected with this disease at the same time, that is thirteen joints, exclusive of the numerous joints of the hands. If each individual joint of the hands had been taken into the account, they would have amounted to above three times the number, perhaps not fewer than 40.CLINICAL HISTORY, &C. 202 40. The malady had been constantly ad* vancing for ten years. These Nodes, in their gradual progress, sadly embitter the comforts of life ; but I know no instance in ' hich they seemed to shorten its du- ration. The first patient whom I saw in this disease lived to about 93 years of age. This faithful picture drawn from nature is here exhibited to excite the compas- sion and exertion of my professional brethren to prevent, if possible, so dis- tressful a malady at its commencement. . As the Nodes at first produce but little pain or inconvenience, and are seldom or never dangerous, they rarely excite the notice which they deserve, and would obtain, if the patients were fully aware that this insidious disorder would con- tinue for life, and would make every future day more uncomfortable. FI NI S. • . " \ > . * f j - ■ * * iii.. Printed by Richard Cruttwell, St. Jamea’i-Strcct, Bath. Vr-«mm VV.'