Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2014 https://archive.org/details/b20386242DEMONSTRATIONS OF N A T 0 MLondon: Spottiswoodes and Shaw, New-street- Square.DEMONSTRATIONS or ANATOMY; BEING & ©ttttfe to tfje f&notoUttge OF THE HUMAN BODY BY DISSECTION, GEORGE VINER ELLIS, PROFESSOR OF ANATOMY IN UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, LONDON. THIRD EDITION, REVISED. LONDON: TAYLOK, WALTON, AND MABERLY, BOOKSELLERS AND PUBLISHERS TO UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, UPPER GOWER STREET, AND IVY LANE, PATERNOSTER ROW. 1852.WELLCOME INSTITUTE/ LIBRARY / Coll. Call No. / MIS013PREFACE. In this edition of my "Demonstrations of Anatomy,3' I have endeavoured to make the work more complete by the correction of inaccuracies, and to render it more efficient, as a guide to dissection, by the introduction of such alterations as are suited to the increased attention that is now given to the study of Practical Anatomy. No alteration has been made in the original plan of the wTork, which consists of a system of dissections of the several parts of the body after the following method: —" In the examination of a part the attention of the student is directed first to its limits, to the superficial prominences of bone or muscle, and to the impressions that point out the situation of the subjacent vessels. The different strata interposed between the surface and the bones are next examined in succession, with refer- ence particularly to the natural position of the several objects and their connections one with another, so that they may be observed in much the same order as they would be met with in an operation of surgery. The anatomical description of the whole is likewise arranged in conformity with the mode of dissection, and each blood-vessel, nerve, or other structure, is described only to such an extent as it may be* laid bare in the region under examination." The instructions for conducting the progressive stages of a dissection having been carefully revised, are better adapted to aid the student in following the more difficultPREFACE. vi directions, and to assist him in recognising objects that become visible on the removal of the superficial parts. In consequence of the short period that has elapsed since the publication of the former edition, the necessary- additions are not numerous, though the diligent student in Anatomy will, doubtless, perceive that the present is not a mere reprint of the former volume. G. V. E. Oct. 1. 1852.2. Origin of the Cranial Nerves - - 190 CONTENTS. CHAPTER I. DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. Page Section 1. External Parts of the Head 1 2. Internal Parts of the Head - 9 3. The Face - 22 4. The Orbit ... - 42 5. The Neck, right side 52 Posterior triangular space - 56 Front of the Neck 60 Anterior triangular space - 63 6. Pterygo-maxillary Region 85 7. Sub-maxillary Region - - - 97 8. Superior Maxillary Nerve and Vessels - - 104 9. Deep Vessels and Nerves of the Neck - - 106 10. Left Side of the Neck - - - - 122 11. The Pharynx - - - - - . 127 12. The Mouth - - - - 137 13. Cavity of the Nose - - - 139 14. Spheno-palatine and Otic Ganglia, Facial and Nasal Nerves, and Internal Maxillary Artery - 144 15. The Tongue - - - - 153 16. The Larynx - - - - 161 17. Hyoid Bone, Cartilages and Ligaments of the Larynx, Structure of the Trachea - - 169 18. Prevertebral Muscles and the Vertebral Vessels - 175 19. Ligaments of the first two Cervical Vertebrae, and of the Clavicle - - - - - 178 CHAPTER II. DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Section 1. Membranes and Vessels - - - 183CONTENTS. viii Page Section 3. Medulla Oblongata and Pons Varolii - » 197 4. The Cerebrum, or Great Brain - 205 The under Surface, or the Base - - 206 The upper Surface - - - 211 The Interior - - - 2] 3 Structure of the Cerebrum - 226 5. The Cerebellum, or Little Brain - - - 229 Surfaces and Lobes - 230 Structure of the Mass - - 233 Fourth Ventricle - - - 235 CHAPTER III. DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB, Section 1. The Wall of the Thorax, and the Axillary Space - 244 2. Scapular Muscles, Vessels, Nerves, and Ligaments - 264 3. The Front of the Arm - - - 273 Back of the Arm - 284 4. The Front of the Fore-arm - - - 289 5. The Palm of the Hand - - - 304 6. The Back of the Fore-arm - - - 316 7. Ligaments of the Elbow, Wrist, and Hand - 324 CHAPTER IV. DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Section 1. Cavity of the Thorax - - - 335 The Pleurae - - - t 339 Connections of the Lung - - - 341 The Pericardium - 343 The Heart and its large Vessels - - 345 Nerves of the Thorax - 369 The Trachea, and the Characters and Structure of the Lung - - - 374 Parts in Front of the Spine and the Cord of the Sympathetic - 380 Parietes of the Thorax - - - 388 2, Ligaments of the Trunk - - - 391 Articulation of the Ribs to the Vertebra? - 391 Articulation of the Ribs to the Sternum - 393 Articulations of the Sternum - 393 Articulations of the Vertebras - - 393ix CONTENTS. CHAPTER V. DISSECTION OF THE BACK. Page First Layer of Muscles - •• - - -398 Second Layer of Muscles ----- 404 Third Layer of Muscles - - ... 406 Fourth Layer of Muscles with Vessels and Nerves - - 408 Fifth Muscular Layer, and the Sacral Nerves - - - 417 CHAPTER VI. DISSECTION OP THE SPINAL CORD. Membranes of the Cord - 423 Roots of the Spinal Nerves - - - - - 427 Vessels of the Cord ------ 430 Form and Divisions of the Cord - - - - 431 Structure of the Cord, and the deep Origin of the Nerves - 433 Intra-spinal Vessels - - - - -435 CHAPTER VII. DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. Section 1. Perinaeum of the Male Posterior Half of the Space Anterior Half of the Space Operation of Lithotomy 2. Perinaeum of the Female - CHAPTER VIII. DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Section 1. Wall of the Abdomen - 458 2. Hernia of the Abdomen - - - 482 3. Cavity of the Abdomen - 493 Connections of the Viscera ... 495 Peritoneum and its Folds - - - 501 Mesenteric Vessels and Part of the Sympathetic Nerve ----- 506 Connections of the Aorta and Vena Cava - 512 Connections of the Duodenum and Pancreas - 513 a 437 439 443 454 455X CONTENTS. Page Vessels and Nerves of the Chylo-poietic Viscera 515 Sympathetic and Vagus Nerves - - 520 Section 4. Anatomy of the Abdominal Viscera - - 524 The Stomach - - - - 524 The Small Intestine - - - 527 The Large Intestine - 532 The Pancreas - - - - 536 The Spleen - - - - -538 The Liver - 540 The Gall Bladder - 547 The Kidney and the Ureter - 549 The Supra-renal Capsule ... 554 The Testis and the Vas Deferens - - 555 5. Vessels of the Abdomen and some deep Muscles - 561 6. Lumbar Plexus and the Cord of the Sympathetic Nerve ------ 576 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Section 1. Fascia of the Cavity and the Muscles of the Pelvic Outlet - - - - 581 2. Connections of the Viscera in the Male - - 586 3. Connections of the Viscera in the Female - - 594 4. Vessels and Nerves of the Pelvis - - - 599 5. Anatomy of the Viscera of the Male - - 610 The Prostate Gland and the Seminal Vesicles 611 The Urinary Bladder - - - 614 The Urethra and the Penis - - - 617 The Rectum - - - 622 6. Anatomy of the Viscera of the Female - - 624 External Organs of Generation - - 625 The Vagina ----- 627 The Uterus ----- 629 Ovaries and Fallopian Tubes - - 631 Bladder, Urethra, and Rectum - - 634 7. Internal Muscles of the Pelvis - 635 Articulations of the Pelvis - - - 636 CHAPTER IX. DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. Section 1. The Front of the Thigh - - - - 645 Femoral Hernia - - - - 655 Deep Muscles, Vessels, and Nerves on the Front of the Thigh - - - 664CONTENTS. xi Page Deep Parts on the inner Side of the Thigh - 674 2. The Buttock, or the Gluteal Region - - 682 3. The Back of the Thigh and the Popliteal Space - 694 4. The Back of the Leg .... - 704 5. The Sole of the Foot - - - 715 6. The Front of the Leg and the Dorsum of the Foot 727 7. Ligaments of the Knee, Ankle, and Foot - - 737 CHAPTER X. DISSECTION OF THE EYE. Sclerotic Coat and Cornea ----- 756 Choroid Coat and Ciliary Processes - 759 Ciliary Ligament and Muscle - - - - 762 The Iris ------- 762 Ciliary Vessels and Nerves - - - - 764 The Retina and Jacob's Membrane - - - 765 Vitreous Body, and Hyaloid Membrane, with the Canal of Petit ------- 768 Crystalline Lens and its Capsule - - - 770 CHAPTER XL DISSECTION OF THE EAR. The Auditory Canal - - - - - 773 The Tympanum, with its Vessels and Nerves - - - 775 Ossicles of the Tympanum, and their Muscles and Ligaments - 778 The Osseous Labyrinth of the Inner Ear - - 783 Vestibule - - - - - -783 Semicircular Canals - - - - 784 Cochlea and its Septum - - - - - 785 The Membranous Labyrinth, or Sacs - 788 Utricle - - - - - - - 789 Saccule ------- 789 Blood-vessels of the Labyrinth - - - - 790 Nerve of the Cochlea and of the Membranous Sacs - - 791DEMONSTRATIONS OF ANATOMY. CHAPTER I. DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. Section I. EXTERNAL PARTS OF THE HEAD. The superficial parts of the head should be first examined, Direc- . tions re- so as to allow the speedy removal of the brain. On the specting r J the dis- left side of the head the muscles are to be seen, and on the section, opposite side the vessels and nerves are to be displayed. For the subsequent guidance of the student it may be Con- cerning here stated, at the outset, how much of the dissection has to time, be finished whilst the body lies on the back. The parts described in the first sixty pages are to be learnt before the position is altered to allow of the dissection of the back ; but should want of time necessitate an omission of some part, the examination of the facial nerve (p. 39.) can be best deferred till a subsequent stage. Certainly the orbit, and the posterior triangular space on both sides of the neck, should be dissected before the first position of the body is changed. Position. — During the examination of the scalp, the body Position lies on the back, with the head raised to a suitable height body, and turned to the right side. Muscles of the external Ear.—Three muscles fix the Muscles outer ear to the side of the head. Two are above it, one ear!16 elevating, the other drawing it forwards ; and the third, a2 DISSECTION OF THE EXTERIOR OF THE HEAD. retrahent muscle, is behind the ear. There are other special muscles of the cartilage of the ear, which will be afterwards described. Dissec- Dissection.—When the ear has been drawn down by upper hooks, the position of the two upper muscles will be indi- ' cated by a slight prominence between it and the head; and the extent of their muscular fibres will be reached by means of the two following incisions, made no deeper than ■ the skin. One of these is to be directed upwards along the cutaneous ridge before-mentioned and the side of the head, for about three inches; and the other, from before back- wards close above the ear, for nearly the same distance, so that the two may join at a right angle. On carefully raising the flaps of skin from below upwards, and removing some sub- jacent tissue, the thin muscular fibres will come into view— the more anterior constituting the attrahens, and the pos- terior the attollens aurem muscle, ofpos- When the ear is drawn forwards, a ridge marks in like terior . / ° muscle, manner the situation of the posterior muscle. To remove the integuments, let the scalpel be carried down, about an inch behind the ear, from the transverse cut above, as far as to a level with the lobule of the ear, and then forwards below the lobule. After the piece of skin included by these cuts is reflected towards the ear, the retrahent muscle will be easily found beneath the subcutaneous tissue, for it is stronger though deeper than the others. Attra- The attrahens aurem is a small fan-shaped muscle that hens- ... aurem arises from the aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis, near its muscle • t anterior part. Its fibres are directed backwards, and are inserted into the projection on the front of the rim of the is united ear. This muscle is united with the following at its origin, next. but a cellular interval exists between them near the ear. Beneath it are the temporal vessels. Attoi- The attollens aurem has the same form as the preced- lens r aurem {ncr though its fibres are longer and more marked. Arising muscle. D ° ° o also from the tendon of the occipito-frontalis, the fibres con- verge to their insertion into the inner or cranial surface of the pinna of the ear, into an eminence corresponding to the navicular fossa on the opposite aspect, hens*" RETRAHENS aurem (muscitli retrahentes, Alb.) con- aurem sists of two or three roundish, but separate bundles of fibres,OCCIPITO-FRCXNTALIS MUSCLE. 3 which are stronger than those of the other muscles. The consists fibres arise from the root of the mastoid process, and pass three almost transversely forwards to be inserted by aponeurotic fibres into the lower part of the ear (concha) at its cranial aspect. The posterior auricular artery and nerve are in connection with this muscle. The occipito-frontalis muscle covers the arch of the occipi- skull, and consists of an anterior and a posterior fleshy part, talis, with an intervening tendon. Dissection. — On the same side of the head (the left) the occipi- occipito-frontalis is to be dissected. To bring this muscle talis™11" into view, a cut may be made along the middle line of the seen, skull, from the root of the nose to a little below the occipital protuberance, and this may be connected in front with the transverse incision on the side of the head. The flap of skin, thus marked out, is to be raised from before and thrown backwards, when the dissector will observe first the anterior fleshy part of the muscle, next a white shining thin aponeurosis, and lastly the posterior fleshy belly towards the outer part of the cranium. The student should bear in mind that the aponeurosis of the muscle is easily taken away with the granular fat; and should the under surface of the flap of the integuments have a white instead of a yellow appearance, he may infer he is removing that apo- neurosis. The anterior or frontal part is a thin muscular expansion Frontal over the os frontis, which is not connected to the subja- part' cent bone, but mixes with some muscles of the face. Along the line of the eyebrow (its origin) the fibres are blended with those of the orbicularis palpebrarum and corrugator supercilii, whilst opposite the nose they join those of the pyramidalis nasi muscle. From this attachment the fibres are directed upwards to the aponeurosis, and end in it rather below the level'of the coronal suture. The posterior or occipital part is stronger than the an- occipital terior; it arises from the mastoid portion of the temporalpart' bone, and from the outer half or two-thirds of the upper curved line of the occipital bone. The fibres are about one inch and a half in length, and ascend to the aponeu- rosis. The tendon, or epicranial aponeurosis, extends over the and aP.°- npnrncic4 DISSECTION OF THE EXTERIOR OF THE HEAD. upper part of the cranium, and is continuous across the middle line with the same structure of the opposite half of the head. On the side it gives origin to the auricular muscles, and a thin fascia is here prolonged from it over the fascia covering the temporal muscle. Posteriorly, the aponeurosis is attached to the superior curved ridge of the occipital bone between the fleshy parts of the muscles of opposite sides. The aponeurotic expansion is closely at- tached to the skin; but it is connected to the pericranium only by a loose cellular membrane devoid of fat, so that it moves freely over the skull, its con- Superficial to the occipito frontalis are the cutaneous nections. vesseis an(j nerves 0f the scalp. In front, the muscles of opposite sides are joined above the root of the nose. How to Dissection.—After the removal of the superior auricular porai muscles, together with the temporal vessels, and the epi- cranial aponeurosis and its lateral prolongation, the attach- ment of the temporal fascia may be seen on the side of the head. Tempo. The temporal fascia is a white, shining membrane, which da. is much stronger than the epicranial aponeurosis, and gives Attach- attachment to the subjacent temporal muscle. Superiorly it is inserted into the curved line that limits the temporal fossa oo the side of the skull; and inferiorly, where it is narrower connec- and thicker, it is fixed to the zygoma. By its cutaneous surface the fascia is in contact with the muscles already ex- amined, and with the superficial temporal vessels and nerves, and lay- An incision into the fascia, a little above the zygoma, shows it to consist there of two layers, which are fixed to the mar- gins of that process of bone. Between the layers is some cellular membrane, with a small branch of the temporal artery, and a slender twig from the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve. To see Dissection.— The temporal fascia is now to be detached muscle!11 from the subjacent muscle and the skull, and to be thrown down ; then a soft cellular tissue that lies beneath it, near the zygoma, is to be taken away. The difference in thick- ness of parts of the fascia will be now evident. Tempo- The temporal muscle is only in part laid bare. Wide rai mus- aD0Ve, it becomes narrower and thicker at the Origin, lower part. The muscle arises from the temporal fascia,5 TEMPORAL MUSCLE. arid from all the surface of the impression on the side of the skull, known as the temporal fossa. From this origin the fibres descend converging around a tendon, and are inserted inser- through it into the coronoid process 01 tne lower jaw. On the cutaneous surface is the temporal fascia, with the parts superficial to that membrane; and concealed by the muscle compe- ar e the deep temporal vessels and nerves, which ramify in it. The insertion of the muscle underneath the zygoma will be afterwards followed. Dissection.—For the dissection of the vessels and nerves How to let the head be turned to the left side, and let the piece of skin on skin, that covers the opposite half of the head, be removed by side* means of an incision carried along the eyebrow and zygoma to a little behind the ear. The flap of integument is then to be raised from before backwards, but the subcutaneous fat should be left till the nerves are found. Behind the ear the skin should be reflected as on the other side, in order to uncover the posterior auricular vessels and nerves. Along the eyebrow are the branches of vessels and nerves seek that come from the orbit, viz. the supra-orbital and frontal and ves. vessels, and the supra-orbital and supra-trochlear nerves, front!1 They lie at first beneath the muscular fibres, and the student must cut through these to find them: the supra-orbital branches issue opposite the middle, and the supra-trochlear near the inner part of the orbit. On the side of the head, in front of the ear, are the super- 0n side ficial temporal vessels and nerves; and somewhat above the zygoma are branches of the facial and superior maxillary nerves, whose branches join. Behind the ear, and close to it, are the posterior auricular vessels and nerve. Branches from the great auricular nerve to the tip and back of the ear will be likewise seen; one or more of these should be traced to their junction with the posterior auricular nerve. At the back of the head the ramifications of the occipital at back of head. vessels, and the large and small occipital nerves will be found; the former nerve lies by the side of the artery, and the latter about midway between it and the ear. Cutaneous Vessels.—The arteries of the scalp are fur- vessels nished by the internal and external carotid arteries, and scalp. B 3DISSECTION OF THE EXTERIOR OF THE HEAD. 6 anastomose freely over the side of the head. Only two small branches, the supra-orbital and frontal, come from the former ; whilst the temporal, occipital, and posterior auricular arteries are offsets of the latter, supra- The supra-orbital branch of artery leaves the orbit through orbital . . ... artery, the notch in the margin of the orbit, and is distributed on the forehead. Some of its branches are superficial to the occipito-frontalis, and ascend towards the top of the head, whilst others remain beneath the muscle, and supply it, the periosteum, and the bone. Frontal The frontal branch is close to the inner angle of the orbit, dlteri* and is much smaller than the preceding. It soon ends ill branches for the supply of the muscles, integuments, and periosteum. superfi- The superficial temporal artery is the terminal branch of poraihasthe external carotid. After ascending over the zygoma for about two inches, the vessel divides on the temporal fascia into anterior and posterior branches, anterior The anterior division runs forward with a serpentine course to the forehead, supplying muscular, cutaneous, and pericranial off- sets, and anastomoses with the supra-orbital artery. It is this branch that is opened when blood is taken from the temporal artery. poste- The posterior division is larger than the other, and arches back- nor pai t. war(jg akove ^e ear towards the occipital artery, with which it anastomoses. Its branches are similar to those of the other divi- sion, and it communicates moreover with the artery of the opposite side over the top of the head. ocdpi- Occipital Artery.— The terminal part of this artery, after tery.1" perforating the trapezius, divides into large and tortuous branches, which spread over the back of the head and the occipito-frontalis muscle. Communications are established by means of these branches with the artery of the opposite side, with the posterior division of the temporal, and with the following artery. Some offsets pass deeply to supply the muscle, the pericranium, and the bone. Poste- The posterior auricular artery appears in front of the ricuiar." mastoid process, and divides into two branches. One (mas- toid) is directed backwards to supply the occipito-frontalis, and anastomose with the occipital artery. The other (auri- cular) is furnished to the retrahent muscle and back of the7 CUTANEOUS VESSELS. b 4 pinna of the ear; and an offset from it pierces the pinna to be distributed on the opposite surface. The veins of the exterior of the head are so similar to the Veins arteries, that a full notice of each is not required. All the scalp,, veins corresponding to the branches of the internal carotid artery enter the facial vein, whilst the rest open into the jugular veins. These superficial veins communicate both with the sinuses in the interior of the skull by means of small branches named emissary, and with the veins occupy- ing the spongy substance (diploe) of the cranial bones. w The frontal vein is directed towards the inner angle of the orbit, like the J t . . . . arteries. where it receives the supra-orbital vein, the two giving rise to the angular vein of the face. Both the superficial temporal and pos- terior auricular veins open into the external jugular; and the occi- pital joins the internal jugular vein. Cutaneous Nerves.—The terminal parts of the several Nerves r m of the nerves are furnished from both the cranial and spinal nerves, scalp are The half of the head anterior to the ear receives branches from the three trunks of the fifth cranial nerve, and a few offsets from the facial nerve. All the rest of the head is supplied by spinal nerves, from both anterior and posterior divisions, except close behind the ear, where there is a branch of the facial (seventh cranial) nerve. The supra-orbital nerve is a branch of the first trunk of Supra- ... orbital the fifth nerve, and escapes from the orbit with its com- nerve; panion artery; whilst beneath the occipito-frontalis muscle, the nerve gives offsets to it and the orbicularis palpebrarum, as well as others to the pericranium. Finally, the nerve ends in two cutaneous branches, which ramify between the epicranial aponeurosis and the skin: — One of these (inner) soon pierces the occipito-frontalis, and its two reaches backwards as far as the parietal bone. The other branch ous (outer), is of larger size, and perforating the muscle higher up, e™nch" extends over the arch of the head to the occipital bone. Whilst the nerve is escaping from the supra-orbital notch it furnishes some filaments (palpebral) to the upper eyelid. In the orbicular muscle a communication is established between this and the facial nerve. At the inner angle of the orbit is the small supra-trochlear branch and su- of the same nerve. It turns upwards to the forehead close to the troch- bone, and piercing the muscular fibres ends in the integument, branch.8 DISSECTION OP THE EXTERIOR OF THE HEAD. lary ; Brandies are given from it to the orbicularis and corrugator supercilii, and some twigs (palpebral) descend to the eyelid. Tempo- The superficial temporal nerves are derived from the nerves; second and third trunks of the fifth nerve, and from the facial nerve. from a. The temporal branch of the superior maxillary nerve (second trunk of the fifth) is usually a slender twig, which perforates the temporal aponeurosis about a finger's breadth above the zygoma. When become cutaneous, the nerve is distributed on the temple, and communicates with the facial nerve, also sometimes with the next, from in- b. The auriculo-temp oral branch of the inferior maxillary maxii- nerve (third trunk of the fifth) is near the ear, and accom- panies the temporal artery to the top of the head. As soon as the nerve emerges from beneath the parotid gland, it divides into two terminal branches:—the more posterior branch is the smaller of the two, and supplies the attrahens aurem muscle and the integument above the ear; the other branch ascends vertically to the top of the head, and is dis- tributed over the epicranial and temporal aponeuroses. The nerve also furnishes an auricular branch (upper) to the an- terior part of the pinna, above the auditory meatus, and from c. The temporal branches of the facial nerve are directed nerve, upwards over the temporal aponeurosis to the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle. They will be described with the dis- section of the trunk of the facial nerve. Poste- The posterior auricular nerve lies behind the ear with the rkuiar" artery of the same name. It arises from the facial nerve "asVe close to the stylo-mastoid foramen, and turns upwards in front of the mastoid process. Soon after the nerve becomes superficial, it communicates with the great auricular nerve, and divides into an occipital and an auricular branch, which are distributed as their names express:— occipital The occipital branch is long and slender, and ends in the posterior belly of the occipito-frontalis muscle. It lies near the occipital bone, enveloped in dense fibrous structure, and furnishes offsets to the integuments, and auri- The auricular branch ascends to the back of the ear, supplying the retrahent muscle and the posterior aspect of the pinna. Great The great auricular nerve of the cervical plexus is seen to some extent at the lower part of the ear, but its anatomy branch, auricu-CUTANEOUS NERVES. 9 will be afterwards given with the description of the cervical iar . ' nerve. plexus. The great occipital is the largest cutaneous nerve at the Jj£**tal back of the head, and is recognised by its proximity to the nerve occipital artery. Springing from the posterior division of the second cervical nerve, it perforates the muscles of the back of the neck, and divides on the occiput into numerous large branches; these spread over the posterior part of the occipito-frontalis muscle, and end mostly in the integument, but one {auricular branch) reaches the cranial aspect of the gives an . , . . , ...... auricu- ear. As soon as this nerve pierces the trapezius, it is joined iar by an offset from the third cervical nerve; and on the back of the head it communicates also with the smaller occipital nerve. The small occipital nerve of the cervical plexus lies mid- Small way between the ear and the preceding nerve, and is con- nerve tinued upwards in the integuments higher than the level of the ear. It communicates with the nerve on each side ; viz. the posterior auricular and great occipital. Usually this has an nerve furnishes an auricular branch to the upper part of the fj£-ncu" ear at its cranial aspect, which supplies also the attollens aurem muscle. Dissection.—Before opening the skull the dissector should Dissec- detach on the right side the temporal muscle from the bone, open the nearly down to the zygoma, without separating the fascia covering it; but all the remaining soft parts may be divided by an incision carried around the skull, about one inch above the margin of the orbit at the forehead, and as low as the protuberance at the occiput. The cranium is now to be sawn in the same line as the to cut former incision, but the saw is to extend only through the bonelgh outer osseous plate, whilst the inner plate is to be broken through with a chisel, in order to avoid injuring the sub- jacent membrane of the brain (dura mater). The skull cap is next to be forcibly detached, and the dura mater will then come into view. ^ Section II. INTERNAL PARTS OF THE HEAD. Directions.—It will be more advantageous for the student How to to proceed at once with the parts described in this Section,10 DISSECTION OF THE INTERIOR OF THE HEAD. than to examine the brain at this stage. Directions are given (p. 13.) for the preservation of the brain, after its re- moval, till it can be dissected. Dura The dura mater is the most external of the membranes mater- investing the brain. It is a strong, fibrous structure, that. serves as an internal periosteum to the bones, and supports Appear- the cerebral mass. The outer surface of the membrane is outlr°f rough, and presents, now it is separated from the bone, surface. numerous small fibrous and vascular processes; but these are most marked along the line of the sutures, where the attachment of the dura mater to the bone is much the most intimate. Ramifying on the upper part of the membrane are branches of the middle meningeal vessels, ascending towards the top of the head. Small granular fibrous bodies, glands of Pacchioni, are also seen along the middle line. The number of these bodies is very variable, and is increased with age. Occasionally the surface of the skull is indented by these so-called glands, cut Dissection.—For the purpose of seeing the interior of the through _ . . . the dura dura mater, divide this membrane with a scissors close to the margin of the skull, except in the middle line before and be- hind, where the superior longitudinal sinus lies. The cut membrane is then to be raised towards the top of the brain ; and on the right side the veins connecting it with the cere- bral hemisphere may be broken through. inner When the dura mater is cut through, its inner surface is seen to present a smooth and polished aspect; and this ap- pearance is due to an epithelial covering, similar to that lining serous membranes. struc- This external envelope of the brain consists of white fibrous tissue so disposed as to give rise to two distinct layers, viz., an external or endosteal, and an internal proper to the dura mater. At certain spots these layers are slightly separated, and form thereby the spaces or sinuses for the passage of the and pro- venous blood. Moreover, the innermost layer sends processes cesses. . between different parts of the brain, forming the falx, tento- rium, &c. Faix. The falx cerebri is the process of the dura mater, in shape like a sickle, that dips between the hemispheres of the cere- brum, along the middle line. Its form and extent will be evident if the right hemisphere is gently separated from it.TPIE DURA MATER. 11 It is narrow and pointed in front, where it is attached to the Form crista galli of the ethmoid bone, but widens posteriorly, and tach- joins a horizontal piece of the dura mater, named the ten- torium cerebelli. The upper border is convex, and is fixed to the middle line of the skull as far backwards as the occi- pital protuberance; whilst the lower, or free border, is con- cave, and turned towards the corpus callosum of the brain, with which it is in contact posteriorly. In this fold of the sinuses dura mater are contained the following sinuses : —the supe- ml' rior longitudinal along the convex border, the inferior longi- tudinal in the lower edge, and the straight sinus at the line of junction between it and the tentorium. The superior longitudinal sinus extends from the ethmoid superior bone to the occipital protuberance. Its position in the con- d£§tu" vex border of the falx will be made manifest by the escape smus' of blood through numerous small veins, if the finger is carried backwards along the middle line of the head. When situa- , . . i • • , • n i tion an(* the sinus is opened, it is seen to be narrow in iront, and to ending, become wider as it proceeds backwards, till it ends in a com- mon point of union of certain sinuses (torcular Herophili) at the centre of the occipital bone. Its cavity is triangular in its in- form, with the apex of the space turned to the falx; and across it are stretched small tendinous cords (chordse Willisii) near the openings of some of the cerebral veins. Occasion- ally small glandular Pacchioni are present in the sinus. This sinus receives small veins from the substance and Veins exterior of the skull, and larger ones from the hemispheres muTitl8 of the brain. The cerebral veins open chiefly at the poste- rior part of the brain, and lie for some distance against the wall of the sinus before they perforate it; their course is likewise directed from behind forwards, so that the motion of the blood in them is evidently opposed to the direction of Current i i ™ . . . n -, . of blood the current in the smus. This disposition of the veins may in it. be seen on the left side of the brain, where the parts are undisturbed. Dissection.—Before the rest of the dura mater can be seen, pissec- the brain must be taken from the body. To facilitate its re- removal moval, let the head incline backwards, whilst the shoulders are raised on a block, in order that the brain may separate somewhat from the base of the skull. Cut across now the an- terior part of the falx cerebri, and the different cerebral12 DISSECTION OF THE INTERIOR OF THE HEAD. veins entering the longitudinal sinus; raise and throw back- wards the falx, but leave it connected behind with the rest of the dura mater. For the division of the nerves and ves- sels of the brain, a very sharp scalpel will be necessary; and the nerves are to be cut longer on the one side than on the other. Mode of Removal of the brain.—Begin the removal of the brain by ing and gently raising with the fingers the anterior lobes and the olfac- cut.tS tory bulbs. Next cut through the internal carotid artery and the second and third nerves, which first present themselves to the dissector; the artery having the large second nerve on its inner, and the round third nerve on its outer side. A small branch of artery to the orbit should likewise be divided at this time. The brain is now to be supported in the left hand, and the pituitary body to be dislodged from the hollow in the centre of the sphenoid bone. Afterwards a strong horizontal process of the dura mater (tentorium cerebelli) comes into view ; and along its free margin will be seen the small fourth nerve, which is to be cut at this stage of the proceeding. Next make an incision through the tentorium on each side, close to its attachment to the temporal bone, without injuring the parts underneath. The following nerves, which now appear, are to be divided in succession. Near the inner margin of the tentorium is the fifth nerve, consisting of a large and small root; whilst towards the middle line of the head is the long slender sixth nerve. Below the fifth, and somewhat external to it, is the seventh nerve with its facial and auditory parts, the former being anterior and the smaller of the two. Directly below the seventh are the three divi- sions of the eighth nerve in one line: of these, the upper small piece is the glossopharyngeal; the flat band next be- low, the pneumo-gastric ; and the long round nerve ascend- ing from the spinal canal, the spinal accessory division. The remaining nerve is the ninth, which consists of two small pieces. After dividing the nerves, cut through the vertebral arteries as they wind round the upper part of the spinal cord. Lastly, cut across the spinal cord as low as possible, as well as the roots of the spinal nerves that are attached on each side. By placing the right first two fingers in the spinal canal, the cord may be raised, and the whole brain may then be taken readily from the skull in the left hand.REMOVAL OF THE BRAIN. 13 Its preservation.—-The brain may be immersed in spirit to How to harden the texture, and wood spirit may be used on account theServe of its cheapness, To allow the spirit to reach the interior of the ventricles, cut off the upper part of each hemisphere nearly to the level of the corpus callosum, and then open each lateral ventricle by a longitudinal incision, about two inches long, near the inner margin of the divided hemisphere. Now place the brain upside down on a piece of calico, long enough to wrap over it, and then set it aside in the spirit, together with the top of one hemisphere. Its examination. — At the end of one day the dissector To ex- should return to the examination of the other membranes amme 1 ' and the vessels. As soon as the vessels have been learnt, carefully remove the membranes from all the surface of the brain, without detaching the different cranial nerves. Finally, let the brain remain in the spirit till the dissection of the head and neck has been completed. The description of the its des- brain will be found after that of the head and neck. cnption. Directions.—After setting aside the brain, the anatomy of Direc- the dura mater, and of the vessels and nerves in the base of uons* the skull, should be proceeded with. Let the head be raised to a convenient height, and the tentorium be fastened in its natural position with a few stitches. The dissector should be furnished with the base of u skull, whilst studying the fol- lowing parts. At the base of the cranium the dura mater is much more Dura closely united to the bones than it is at the top of the skull. Saseofn skull • Here it dips into the different inequalities on the surface of' the bones; it also sends processes through the several fora- mina, which join for the most part the pericranium, and furnish sheaths to the nerves. Beginning the examination its pro- in front, the student will find the membrane sending a pro- tionf" longation into the foramen cascum, as well as a series of tubes throligh the apertures in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. A large process also enters the orbit by the sphe- noidal fissure, and a covering is continued on the optic nerve to the eyeball. After lining the sella Turcica, the and con- dura mater adheres closely to the basilar process of the occi- to bone, pital bone; and it may then be traced into the spinal canal through the foramen magnum, to the margin of which it is very firmly connected.DISSECTION OF THE INTERIOR OF THE HEAD. 14 Tento- The tentorium cerebelli is the piece of the dura mater that rium ce- . . . . rebeiii; is interposed in a somewhat horizontal position between the its at- cerebellum and the posterior part of the cerebrum. Its moots upper surface is raised along the middle, where it is joined by the falx cerebri, and is hollowed laterally for the reception of the back part of the cerebral hemispheres; whilst its under surface corresponds to the little brain and the falx cerebelli. The anterior margin is free, except at the ends, where it is fixed by a narrow slip to each anterior clinoid process. The posterior or attached part is connected to the following bones: — occipital (its transverse groove), inferior angle of the parietal, petrous portion of the temporal (upper and the border), and posterior clinoid process of the sphenoid. Along inTtS.es the centre of the tentorium is the straight sinus, whilst in the attached edge are the lateral and the superior petrosal sinuses. Falx ce» The falx cerebelli has the same position below the tento- re e 1 rium as the falx cerebri above that fold. It is much smaller than the like process of the cerebrum, and will be seen by detaching the tentorium. Triangular in form, this fold is attached to the middle of the occipital bone, below the trans- verse ridge, and projects between the hemispheres of the cerebellum. Its base is directed to the tentorium, and the contains apex ends below, at the foramen magnum, to each side of wThich it gives a small slip. In it are contained the occipital sinuses. occipital sinuses. sinuses The sinuses are venous spaces between the layers of the skull? dura mater, into which the blood is received. All the sinuses open either into a large space opposite the occipital pro- tuberance (torcular Herophili), or into the two cavernous sinuses by the sides of the body of the sphenoid bone. Occipi- A. The torcular Herophili is placed in the tentorium, trere-" opposite the centre of the occipital bone. It is of an irregular celves shape, and numerous sinuses open into it; viz. the superior longitudinal, the straight and inferior longitudinal, and the occipital and lateral sinuses, superior The superior longitudinal sinus has been already described }Zta- (see p. 11.). inferior The inferior longitudinal sinus resembles a small vein, diofh"" and is contained in the lower border of the falx cerebri at15 SINUSES OF THE DUKA MATER. its posterior part. This vein receives blood from the falx and the larger brain, and ends in the straight sinus at the edge of the tentorium. The straight sinus lies along the middle of the tentorium, straight ,. , sinus. and seems to continue the preceding sinus to the common point of union. Its form is triangular, like the superior longitudinal. Joining it are the inferior longitudinal sinus, the veins of Galen from the interior of the large brain, and some small veins from the upper part of the small brain. The occipital sinus is a small space in the falx cerebelli, Ocdpi- which reaches to the foramen magnum, and collects the blood from the occipital fossge. This sinus may be double. The lateral sinus is the channel by which most of the Lateral sinus. blood passes from the skull. There is one on each side, right and left, which extends from the occipital protuberance to the foramen lacerum jugulare, where it ends in the in- ternal jugular vein. In this extent the sinus corresponds to position the winding groove in the interior of the skull, between the to bone' two points of bone before mentioned. Besides small veins sinuses from the brain, the sinus is joined by the superior petrosal i°mmg sinus, opposite the upper border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and by the inferior petrosal at the foramen lacerum. Oftentimes it communicates with the occipital vein through the mastoid foramen, and sometimes with the veins of the diploe of the skull. The right sinus is often larger than the left. The foramen lacerum jugulare is divided into three com- situa- partments by bands of the dura mater; through the posterior foramen space the lateral sinus passes, through the anterior the in- a e u ferior petrosal sinus, and through the central one the eighth nerve. Dissection.—To examine the cavernous sinus, say on the Dissec- : left side, let the dura mater on the side of the sphenoid bone tlon* be cut through from the anterior to the posterior clinoid process, and internal to the position of the third nerve. Be- hind the last-named process, let the knife be directed inwards for about half the width of the basilar part of the occipital bone. By placing the handle of the scalpel in the opening thus made, the extent of the space will be defined. A probe should be passed into the different sinuses that join the cavernous sinus.DISSECTION OP THE INTERIOR OF THE HEAD. 16 Cavern- B. The cavernous sinus, which has been so named from ous si- . ...... . nus the reticulate structure in its interior, is situate on the side of the body of the sphenoid bone. This space, resulting from the separation of the layers of the dura mater, is of an irregular shape, and extends from the sphenoidal fissure to has the tip of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. Exter- outer nally, the piece of dura mater bounding the sinus is of some thickness, and contains in its substance the third and fourth nerves, with the orbital trunk of the fifth nerve. The cavity of the sinus is larger behind than before, and in it are shreds contains of fibrous tissue with small vessels. Through the space artery winds the trunk of the internal carotid artery, with the sixth nerve; nerve on the outer side of the vessel; but these are shut out from the blood in the space by a thin lining membrane. The cavernous sinus receives the ophthalmic vein of the orbit, some small cerebral veins, and twigs from the pterygoid veins and com-outside the skull. It communicates with its fellow on the muni- . . cates opposite side by the circular and transverse sinuses, and its with fol- rjr J lowing blood is transmitted to the lateral sinus by the superior and viz. ' inferior petrosal channels. Circular The circular sinus lies around the pituitary body, and sinus' reaches from one cavernous sinus to the other across the middle line. Besides serving as the means of communication between those sinuses, it receives small veins from the pitui- tary body. This sinus is usually destroyed by the removal of the pituitary body. Trans- The transverse or basilar sinus crosses the basilar process sinus, of the occipital bone, on a level with the petrous part of the temporal bone, and joins the opposite cavernous sinuses. A second transverse sinus is sometimes found nearer the fora- men magnum. Superior The superior petrosal sinus lies in a groove in the upper petrosal, marg-n Qf ^Q petrous part 0f the temporal bone, and extends between the cavernous and lateral sinus. A small vein from the cerebellum, and another from the internal ear, are received into it. inferior The inferior petrosal sinus extends between the same petrosal. s^nuges as preceding, and lies along the line of junction of the petrous part of the temporal with the basilar process of the occipital bone ; it is joined by a small vein from the outside of the skull, through the foramen lacerum medium17 MENINGEAL VESSELS AND NERVES. at the base of the cranium. The sinus passes through the anterior compartment of the jugular foramen, and ends in the internal jugular vein. Meningeal Arteries.— The arteries that supply the Arteries dura mater are found in all three fossae of the base of the mater skull, and may be accordingly named anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior meningeal are two very small branches which Anterior are derived from the ethmoidal arteries (p. 49.): they are geai. distributed to the dura mater near the ethmoid bone. The middle meningeal arteries are three in number; two, Middle that are named large and small, are derived from the in- geai. ternal maxillary trunk, and the third is an offset of the ascending pharyngeal artery. The large meningeal branch of the internal maxillary artery fr0m enters the skull by the foramen spinosum of the sphenoid bone, ^axii^1 and ascends towards the anterior inferior angle of the parietal lary» bone. At this spot the vessel enters a deep groove in the bone, and ends in ramifications that spread over the side of the head, some of these reaching to the top, and others towards the occiput. Two veins run with this artery. its veins; Branches. — As soon as the artery enters the cranial cavity, it gives furnishes branches for distribution to the dura mater and osseous t ™duraeS structure, and to the ganglion of the fifth nerve. One smallmater branch, petrosal, enters the hiatus Fallopii, and extends through and ear; the aqueduct of the same name till it meets the stylo-mastoid artery. One or two .branches also enter the orbit, and anastomose with the ophthalmic artery. The small meningeal branch is an offset of the large one outside small the skull, and is transmitted through the foramen ovale to the geai; membrane lining the middle fossa. The other meningeal branch from the ascending pharyngeal from artery, appears sometimes in the middle fossa of the skull, after ing phL passing through the foramen lacerum medium (basis cranii). ryngeai. The posterior meningeal branches are likewise small, and Poste- are furnished by the occipital and vertebral arteries, ningeal Those from the occipital, one on each side, enter the skull by from the jugular foramen ; and those from the vertebral arise opposite °ndPltal the foramen magnum. Both sets ramify in the posterior fossa of J^s" the skull. Meningeal Nerves. — The source of the nerves of the Nerves cDISSECTION OF THE INTERIOR OF THE HEAD. 18 of dura- dura mater is very uncertain. Offsets to it are derived from both the cranial and sympathetic nerves. To make these nerves apparent, it would be necessary to steep the dura mater in diluted nitric acid.* Cranial Cranial Nerves. — The cranial nerves consist of nine base of™ pair, and pass from the brain through apertures in the base s u die, o£ skuii# as each leaves the cranium it is invested by processes of the membranes of the brain, which are thus dis- posed :—those of the dura mater and pia mater are lost on the nerve; whilst that of the arachnoid membrane, after a short distance, is reflected back to the skull. Some of the nerves, those in the middle fossa of the skull for instance, are received into sheaths of the dura mater before they approach the foramina of transmission. oniy Only part of the course of each nerve will be now seen, sea«n!y the rest must be learnt in the dissection of the base of the brain. oifac- The first nerve ends anteriorly in the enlargement of nerve, the olfactory bulb. This swelling lies on the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and supplies filaments to the nose, ends m which descend through the small foramina in the subjacent the nose. it bone. These delicate nerves are surrounded by prolonga- tions of the membranes of the brain, whose disposition will be noticed in the dissection of the nose, optic The second nerve diverging from its commissure to the enters eyeball, is seen entering the orbit through the optic fora- tbe eye. men. accompanying the nerve is the ophthalmic artery. Dissec- Dissection. — The third, fourth, and ophthalmic trunk of third the fifth nerve lie in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus ; fourth and it will be necessary, in order to see them, to remove the sheaths of the dura mater that they receive, of firth Afterwards the student should follow outwards the roots of the fifth nerve into the middle fossa of the skull, and take away the dura mater from the surface of the large Gasserian ganglion, as this lies on the point of the petrous part of the temporal bone. And the two large trunks that leave the * Many of the cranial nerves are said to supply the dura mater ; and the student who is desirous for further information may consult Kbl- liker's Mikroskopische Anatomie, p. 495.NERVES AT THE BASE OF THE SKULL. 19 front of the ganglion, viz. superior and inferior maxillary, should be traced to their apertures in the skull. The third nerve is destined for the muscles of the orbit, Motor- and enters the wall of the cavernous sinus, near the anterior Serve clinoid process. At this spot it is deprived of its tube of arachnoid membrane, and in the wall of the sinus it is placed above the other nerves, till it is about to enter the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure. Near the orbit this nerve is passes to joined by one or two delicate filaments of the cavernous plexus (p. 22.). The fourth nerve, like the preceding, courses forwards Troch- to a muscle in the orbit. It is the smallest of the nerves in nerve the wall of the sinus, and lies below the third ; but as it is about to pass through the sphenoidal fissure it becomes higher than all the other nerves. In the wall of the sinus, in the the fourth nerve is joined by twigs of the sympathetic, cavem- and sometimes it is united with the ophthalmic trunk of sinus, the fifth. Fifth Nerve.—This nerve is distributed to the face and Trifacial head, and consists of two parts or roots —a large or sensory, has two and a small or motory. The two roots of the nerve pass together through an aperture in the dura mater, into the middle fossa of the base of the skull. Immediately after- wards, the larger root enlarges in the Gasserian ganglion, their whilst the smaller root passes beneath the ganglion, without merit?6 communicating with it, and joins one trunk derived from the ganglion. The ganglion of the root of the fifth nerve (Gasserian Gasse- ganglion) is placed in a depression on the point of the petrous gan- part of the temporal bone. The upper surface of the gan- large glion is closely united to the dura mater, and presents a semi- lunar elevation, whose convexity looks forwards. Some filaments from the plexus of the sympathetic on the carotid artery enter its inner side. Branches. — From the front of the ganglion proceed the gives three following trunks: — The ophthalmic nerve is the first branch- and highest, and is destined for the orbit and face. Next in es" order is the superior maxillary nerve, which leaves the skull by the foramen rotundum, and ends in the face below the orbit. And the last, or inferior maxillary nerve, passes downwards through the foramen ovale to reach the lower20 DISSECTION OF THE INTERIOR OF THE HEAD. jaw, the lower part of the face, and the tongue. If the gan- glion be raised, the small root will be seen passing by it to enter the trunk of the inferior maxillary nerve. Differ- Those branches of the ganglion that are unconnected with the the smaller or motor root, viz. the ophthalmic and superior es. maxillary, are solely nerves of sensation; but the inferior maxillary is a nerve both of sensation and motion, like a spinal nerve. It is not, however, the whole of the inferior maxillary nerve that so differs from the rest, for the motor root is mixed almost exclusively with the part of the trunk which supplies the muscles of the lower jaw ; and it is, there- fore, only that small part of the nerve that possesses a double function, and resembles a spinal nerve, oph- The ophthalmic nerve is the only one of the three trunks nerve of that needs a more special notice in this stage of the dissec- Intlrs°n tion. It enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, and is continued through that space to the forehead. In form it is a fiat band, and in its course to the orbit the nerve is con- tained in the wall of the cavernous sinus, where it lies be- Suppiies neath the third and fourth nerves. In this situation it is dura -mater, joined by filaments of the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic, and gives a small recurrent filament to that part of the dura mater which forms the tentorium cerebelli (Arnold). Abdu- The sixth nerve enters the orbit through the sphenoidal cens ° L nerve fissure and supplies one of the orbital muscles. It pierces cavem- the dura mater behind the body of the sphenoid bone, and ous si- < A 7 nus. crosses the space of the cavernous sinus, instead of lying in the outer wall with the other nerves, in its course to the orbit. In the sinus, the nerve is placed close against the outer side of the carotid artery, where it is joined by one or two branches of the sympathetic nerve surrounding that vessel. seventh Seventh Nerve—This cranial nerve consists of two has two trunks, facial and auditory, and both enter the meatus audi- pd^t!5, torius internus. In the bottom of the meatus they separate ; the facial nerve courses through the aqueduct of Fallopius to the face, whilst the auditory nerve is distributed to the internal ear. Eighth Eighth Nerve. — There are three trunks here combined has three in this nerve, viz. glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric, and spinal accessory. All three pass through the central com-INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 21 partmeat of the foramen lacerum jugulare, but all are not contained in one tube of the dura mater and of the arach- noid membrane. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve is external to the other two, being separated from them by the inferior petrosal sinus, and has distinct sheaths of the dura mater and arachnoid membrane; but the pneumo-gastric and spinal Their;. accessory nerves are inclosed in the same tube of the dura through mater, only a piece of the arachnoid intervening between faSmm. them. The ninth nerve is the motor nerve of the tongue, and consists of two small pieces that pierce separately the dura mater opposite the anterior condyloid foramen ; these unite after passing through that aperture. Dissection. — The dissector may now return to the ex- Dissec- amination of the trunk of the carotid artery, as it winds carotid, through the cavernous sinus. On the opposite side, viz. that on which the nerves in the of sym- wall of the cavernous sinus are untouched, an attempt may pathetlc* be made to expose two small plexuses of the sympathetic on the carotid artery. It will be necessary to cut off the anterior clinoid process, and to dissect out with care the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth nerves, looking for filaments between these and a plexus on the vessels near the root of that process of .bone. Another plexus joining the sixth and fifth nerves will be found on the artery as it enters the sinus. In an injected body this dissection is scarcely possible. The internal carotid artery appears in the base of internal the skull at the apex of the petrous part of the temporal artery? bone. In its ascent to the brain, the vessel lies in the space of the cavernous sinus, along the side of the body of the sphenoid bone, and makes two remarkable bends, so as to winds look like the letter S reclined. On entering the sinus, the caven? artery ascends, at first, to the posterior clinoid process ; it is then directed forwards to the root of the anterior process of the same name; and lastly, it turns upwards internal to this point of bone, perforates the dura mater bounding the sinus, and divides into cerebral arteries at the base of the' brain. In this course the artery is enveloped by nerves derived from the sympathetic in the neck. The branches of this part of the artery are few. In the The c 322 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. branches sinus there are some smalt arteries (arterice receptaculi) for dura the supply of the dura mater, the nerves, and the pituitary and or- body; and opposite the anterior clinoid process the ophthal- mic branch arises. The terminal branches of the carotid will be seen in the dissection of the base of the brain, sympa- Sympathetic Nerve. — Around the carotid artery is a carotid prolongation of the sympathetic nerve of the neck, which forms p It, cm • / forms the following plexuses: — carotid The carotid plexus is situate on the outer side of the vessel, plexus, ^ entrance into the cavernous sinus, and communicates with the sixth nerve, and with the Gasserian ganglion, cavern- The cavernous plexus is placed below the bend of the artery, ouspiex- wjj^ is c]ose to the root of the anterior clinoid process. This small plexus is more immediately connected with the offset of the upper cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, that courses along the Union inner side of the carotid artery. Filaments are given from this cranial plexus to unite with the third, fourth, and ophthalmic nerves, nerves. Qne foment is also furnished to the lenticular ganglion, either separately from, or in conjunction with the nasal nerve. After forming these plexuses, the nerves surround the trunk of the carotid, and are lost on the cerebral membranes. Twope- Petrosal nerves.—Beneath the Gasserian ganglion is the large nerves in superficial petrosal nerve, entering the hiatus Fallopii to join the skull.0t facial nerve., External to this is occasionally seen another small petrosal nerve (nervus petrosus superficialis tertius, Bidder),% which springs from the sympathetic on the middle meningeal artery, and enters the bone to join the facial nerve with the pre- ceding. A third petrosal nerve is contained in the substance of the temporal bone. The source and the connections of these small nerves will be afterwards learnt. It will suffice now for the student to note them, and to see that they are preserved fit for examination at a future time. For pre- Directions.—Now the base of the skull has been ex- serva- tion of amined, a preservative fluid should be applied, and the flaps of integuments should be stitched together. Direc- tions. Directions. Section III. DISSECTION OF THE FACE. —The left side of the face the dissector mayMUSCLES OP THE PACE. use for the muscles and vessels, and the right side he is to reserve for the nerves. Position.—The previous position of the body for the ex- Position amination of the base of the skull will require to be changed. The head is to be lowered, and the side of the face to be dis- sected is to be placed upwards. Dissection.—As a preparatory step, the iibres of the eye- Dissec- lids, lips, and side of the nose, are to be made tense by in- serting a small quantity of tow or cotton wo#l into the dif- ferent apertures ; and the margins of the eyelids and lips are then to be fastened with a few sutures. The integument is to be removed from the left side of the How t0 ° raise face by means of the following incisions : — one is to be skin made in front of the ear, from above the zygoma to the angle of the jaw ; and another is to be continued from the last point along the base of the jaw to the chin. The flap of skin is to be raised from behind forwards, and left adherent along the middle line. Much care must be taken in detach- from^ ing the skin from the thin, and oftentimes pale fibres of the of eyelid, orbicular muscle of the eyelids, otherwise these will be cut away in consequence of the little cellular tissue that inter- venes between the two. On the side of the nose the* skin is s;de of nose, closely united to the subjacent parts, and must Jbe detached with care. Around the mouth are also many fleshy slips and that extend both upwards and downwards from the orbicular mouth muscle, but they are all marked so distinctly as to escape injury, except the small risorius muscle that comes from the angle of the lower jaw towards the corner of the mouth. When removing the fat from these muscles, each fleshy slip should be made tense by means of hooks. The facial vessels and their branches will come into view Facial vessels as the parts are cleaned; but the nerves may be disregarded and on this side. Near the ear is the parotid gland, whose duct is on a level with the meatus auditorius, and pierces the middle of the cheek. Muscles of the Face.—The superficial muscles of the in the face are gathered around the apertures of the eye, nose, and muscles mouth. An orbicular or sphincter muscle surrounds the the aper- aperture both of the eye and of the mouth; and other mus- tures* cles are blended with it in each instance to enlarge the aper-DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 24 ture. There are three distinct sets of muscles: one of the opening of the eyelids; another of the nostril; and a third of the aperture of the mouth. One of the muscles of masti- cation, viz. the masseter, is also now seen, but it will be afterwards examined. Four Of the Eyelids. — The muscles of the eyelids are four in ™fUeSye!s number, viz. orbicularis palpebrarum, corrugator supercilii, llds' levator palpebral superioris, and tensor tarsi.* The two latter are dissected in the orbit, and will be described with that part. orbicu- The orbicularis palpebrarum is the sphincter muscle of paipe- tht elliptical opening between the eyelids. It is a flat and brarum ^n layer, which extends from the margin of the lids beyond arises in-the circumference of the orbit. At the inner angle of the temaiiy, ork^ ^e mUscle is fixed to the surface and borders of the small tendo palpebrarum; above that tendon to the nasal process of the upper maxillary bone, and to the internal an- gular process of the frontal bone ; and below it to the same process of the superior maxillary bone, and to the inner part of the margin of the orbit. From this origin the fibres are directed above and below the aperture of the lids, giving rise to ovals, which lie side by side, and increase in size and con- towards the outer margin of the muscle. The external fibres three (orbital) are the strongest, and project beyond the margin of fibres, the orbit; the internal fibres (ciliary) are very pale and thin, and form a small bundle close to the cilia or eyelashes; whilst the fibres (palpebral), which occupy the eyelids, are connec- intermediate in size. The muscle is subcutaneous, and its partsW th circumference is free, except above, where it is blended with around. ^e occipito-frontalis. Beneath the upper half of the orbicu- laris, as it lies on the margin of the orbit, is the corrugator supercilii muscle with the supra-orbital vessels and nerve; and beneath the lower half is part of the elevator of the upper lip. At the outer part of the orbit the palpebral loops are fixed to the subjacent bone by means of dense fibrous tissue (external palpebral ligament) ; and sometimes slips from the outer fibres join the other contiguous muscles, corru- The corrugator supercilii is found beneath the orbi- * The tensor tarsi muscle (p. 51.) is sometimes described as part of the orbicularis.MUSCLES OF THE NOSE. 25 cularis, near the inner angle of the orbit. Its fibres amggatorsu- from the inner part of the superciliary ridge of the frontal bone, and are directed thence outwards to join the orbi- is biend- cular muscle about the middle of the orbital arch. It IS orbicu- a short muscle, and is distinguished by the closeness of its fibres. Of the Nose.—The muscles of the nose are the follow- Four ing: pyramidalis nasi, compressor naris, levator alse nasi, JJfnose! with some fibres that dilate the nostril, and depressor alas nasi. The pyramidalis nasi is a small pyramidal slip that covers pyrami- the nasal bone, and appears to be a prolongation of the occi- naif pito-frontalis muscle. Over the cartilaginous part of the nose, naSa* its fibres end in an aponeurosis, which joins that of the com- bone* pressor naris. By the outer border the muscle is united with the orbicularis palpebrarum, and along the inner border is the muscle of the opposite side. Compressor Naris. — This muscle is not well seen till com- after the examination of the following one. Triangular in naris°r shape it arises by a point from the canine fossa of the upper maxillary bone. The fibres are directed inwards, spreading out at the same time, and end in an aponeurosis, which covers covers the cartilaginous part of the nose, and joins the tendon of of nos?.6 the opposite muscle. This muscle is partly concealed by the next one — the common elevator of the ala of the nose and the upper lip. The LEVATOR LABII SUPERIORIS ALiEQUE NASI is placed by Elevator the side of the nose, and arises from the nasal process of the ofnosf upper maxillary bone, internal to the orbicularis. As the fibres descend from the inner part of the orbit, the most in- ternal are attached by a narrow slip to the wing of the nose, whilst the rest are blended inferiorly with those of the orbi- is part cularis oris. Near its origin the muscle is partly concealed of upper by the orbicularis palpebrarum, but in the rest of its extenthp' it is subcutaneous; its outer border joins the elevator of the upper lip. Dilatator Naris.—In the dense tissue on the outer side of Dilator the nostril, are found a few muscular fibres both in front and trii. . behind, to which the above name has been given by Theile: they are seldom visible without a lens. The anterior slip ^deriorDISSECTION OF THE FACE. 26 passes from the cartilage of the aperture to the integument posterior of the margin of the nostril; and the posterior, from the parts* upper jawbone and the small sesamoid cartilages to the inte- guments of the nostril. Depres- The depressor ALiE nasi is found beneath the mucous ^ngfiS membrane on the side of the frasnum of the upper lip. It from arises below the nose from a depression of the upper jaw- mouth. *foQne before tiie rooi 0f the second incisor tooth, and ascends to be inserted into the septum and the posterior part of the ala of the nose. Muscles Of the Mouth. — The muscles that act on the aperture ofthe m r mouth, of the mouth consist of a sphincter ; an elevator of the upper lip, and of the angle of the mouth; depressors of the lower lip, and of the angle of the mouth, and an elevator of the lower lip; together with other small muscles that act on the corner, viz. zjgomatici and risorius of Santorini. Lastly, the buccinator muscle may be reckoned in this set, as its acts on the mouth. sphinc- The orbicularis oris muscle surrounds the aperture of ter of . r mouth the mouth, and is constructed for the most part by the fibres consists of the several muscles acting on that aperture. It consists of two , . . parts, of two parts, inner and outer, which differ much in appear- ance and arrangement. inner or The inner part, whose fibres are pale in colour and fine ' in texture, forms a rounded thick fasciculus that extends from the margin of the lip to the arch of the coronary artery. The fibres of this portion of the muscle are unattached to bone, and some pass from lip to lip round the corner of the mouth. outer or The outer part is thin, wide, and more irregular in form, irregu- r 7 7 ° lar- and has an attachment to the subjacent bone, besides its con- nection with the contiguous muscles. In the upper lip it is attached, on each side of the middle line, to the back of the septum of the nose (naso-labial slip), and to the outer surface of the upper jaw opposite the canine and incisor teeth, ex- ternal to the depressor of the nose. And in the lower lip it is fixed into the inferior jawbone, on the same aspect, opposite the canine tooth, or external to the levator menti muscle. To see these attachments, the lip must be everted, and the mucous membrane raised.MUSCLES OF THE MOUTH. 27 The inner margin of the muscle is free, and bounds the Connect aperture of the mouth; whilst the outer edge blends with blend's the different muscles that elevate or depress the lips and the other angle of the mouth. Beneath the orbicularis in each lip is the coronary artery, with the mucous membrane and the labial glands. The LEVATOR LABII SUPERIORIS extends vertically from Elevator the lower margin of the orbit to the orbicularis oris. It i°ipUpper arises from the upper maxillary and malar bones, above the infra-orbital foramen, and is inserted into the orbicularis oris, passes between the middle line and the angle of the mouth. Near orbit to the orbit the muscle is overlapped by the orbicularis pal- pebrarum, but below that spot it is subcutaneous. By its connec. inner side it joins the common elevator of the ala of the tloas* nose and the upper lip; and to its outer side lie the zygo- matic muscles. Beneath it are the infra-orbital vessels and The levator anguli oris has well-marked fibres, and is Elevator partly concealed by the preceding muscle. Arising from angle the canine fossa, beneath the infra-orbital foramen, its fibres spread out towards the angle of the mouth, where they are superficial to the buccinator, and mix with the rest of the mixes • witn de~ muscles, but the greater number are continued into the de- pressor .. . -. , , ,. of angle. pressor anguli oris and the lower hp. The depressor labii inferioris is opposite the elevator of Depres- the upper lip, and has much yellow fat mixed with its fibres." lower lip The muscle takes its origin from the front of the lower jaw, and ascends to be blended with the orbicularis in the lower lip. Its inner border is contiguous to the muscle of the is in the . . i till middle opposite side, and its outer is overlapped by the depressor of chin, anguli oris. The depressor anguli oris is triangular in shape, and Depres- passes from the oblique line on the outer surface of the lower angle* jaw to the angle of the mouth, where its fibres are continued into the elevators of the angle. This muscle conceals the is a labial branch of the inferior dental vessels and nerve. At muscle, its origin the depressor is united with the platysma myoides, and at its insertion with the risorius muscle. The Levator menti is a small muscle on the side of the Elevator fraenuin of the lower lip, which corresponds to the depressor ofchln* of the ala of the nose in the upper lip. When the mucousDISSECTION OF THE FACE. 28 is seen membrane has been removed, this muscle will be seen to mouth, arise from a fossa near the symphysis of the lower jaw, and to descend to its insertion into the integument of the chin. Its position is internal to the depressor of the lip, and the attachment of the orbicularis. Zygo- The zygomatic muscles are directed obliquely from the muscles; arch of the same name towards the angle of the mouth. One is longer and larger than the other; hence the names major and minor, large The zygomaticus major arises from the outer part of the malar bone at its union with the temporal, and is inserted into the angle of the mouth, and The zygomaticus minor is attached to the malar bone anterior to the other, and is blended more frequently with last the fibres of the elevator of the. upper lip, than with the absent! orbicularis at the angle of the mouth. RiS0. The risorius muscle (Santorini) is a narrow bundle of ilmscie fibres, sometimes divided into two or more parts, which is aimost arises externally from the fascia over the masseter muscle, verse". ana* is connected internally with the apex of the depressor anguli oris. Buccma. The buccinator is a thin flat muscle, that occupies the tor mus- . . .... cie. interval between the jaws, and bounds in this direction the Origin, cavity of the mouth. Superiorly and inferiorly the muscle arises from the outer surface of the upper and lower maxillse, as far forward as the first molar tooth; and in the interval between the jaws it is attached to a band of fascia—the inser- pterygo-maxillary ligament. From this origin the fibres are corners directed forwards to the angle of the mouth, where they mix mouth, with the other muscles and both parts of the orbicularis ; and as some of the central fibres descend to the lower lip whilst others ascend to the upper lip, a decussation takes place at Parts in the corner of the mouth. On the cutaneous surface of the contact with it. buccinator are the different muscles that converge to the angle of the mouth; and crossing the upper part is the duct of the parotid gland, which perforates the muscle opposite the second upper molar tooth. Internally the muscle is lined by the mucous membrane of the mouth, and externally it is covered by a fascia that is continued to the pharynx. By the intermaxillary origin the buccinator corresponds to an attachment of the superior constrictor of the pharynx.29 FACIAL VESSELS. The VESSELS OF THE FACE Consist of the facial and trails- Arteries verse facial arteries with their accompanying veins. 1 he face, arteries are branches of the external carotid, and the facial vein is received into the internal jugular trunk. The facial artery emerges from the neck, and appears on Facial the lower jaw, anterior to the masseter muscle. From thisartery' point the artery ascends in a tortuous manner, near the angle of the mouth and the side of the nose, to the inner angle of the orbit, where it anastomoses with the ophthalmic artery. The course of the vessel is comparatively superficial, though course, lying in the mass of fat of the inner part of the cheek. At and con- first the artery is concealed by the platysma whilst crossing the jaw, but this thin muscle does not prevent pulsation being recognised during life; and near the mouth the zygomatic muscle is superficial to it. The vessel rests suc- cessively on the lower jaw, buccinator muscle, elevator of the angle of the mouth, and elevator of the upper lip. Accompanying the artery is the facial vein, which is nearly a straight tube, and lies to its outer side. Branches.—From the outer side of the vessel unnamed Plan of the branches are furnished to the muscles and integuments, some branch- of which anastomose with the transverse facial artery. From the inner side are given the following branches : — 1. The inferior labial branch runs inwards beneath the depressor inferior labial. anguli oris muscle, and is distributed between the lower lip and chin; it communicates with the inferior coronary, and with the labial branch of the inferior dental artery. 2. Coronary branches. — There is one for each lip (superior and Two co- inferior), which arise together or separately from the facial, and ronary are directed inwards between the orbicular muscle and the mucous form an membrane of the lip, till they inosculate with the corresponding the lip. branches of the opposite side. From the arterial arches thus Branch formed, offsets are supplied to the lips and labial glands. From t0 nose* the arch in the upper lip a branch is given to the septum of the nose,—artery of the septum. 3. The latei^al nasal branch arises opposite the ala of the nose, Lateral and passes beneath the levator labii superioris alseque nasi, to be branch, distributed on the side of the nose, where it anastomoses with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic artery. 4. The angular branch is the terminal twig of the facial artery Angular at the inner angle of the orbit, and joins with a branch of the branch' ophthalmic artery. The facial vein commences at the root of the nose by a ^ial30 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. small vein named angular (p. 7.). It then crosses over the fromay elevator °f tne upper lip, and separating from the artery artery; COurses beneath the zygomatic muscle to the side of the jaw. Afterwards it has a short course in the neck to join the internal jugular vein, is joined Branches —At the inner side of the orbit it receives veins from branch- the lower eyelid (inferior palpebral) and the side of the nose. b Below the orbit it is joined by the infra-orbital vein, also by a large branch that comes from the pterygoid region (anterior in- ternal maxillary) ; and thence to its termination by veins corre- sponding to the branches of the artery both in the face and neck. Trans- The transverse facial is a branch of the temporal artery, facial and appears in the face at the anterior border of the parotid artel> gland. It lies by the side of the parotid duct, with branches of the facial nerve, and distributes offsets to the muscles and integuments; some branches anastomose with the facial artery. Lay bare Dissection, — The parotid gland may next be displayed. rotX To see the gland, raise the skin from its surface towards the ear by means of a cut from the base of the jaw to the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle ; this cut may be united with that made for the dissection of the posterior muscle of the ear. A strong fascia covers the gland, and is connected above and behind to the zygoma and the cartilage of the ear, but in front is continued over the face. After the fascia has been removed, the superficial connections of the gland will appear. The great auricular nerve will be also seen ascending to the lobe of the ear. Parotid The parotid is the largest of the salivary glands ; it gland' occupies the space between the ear and the lower jaw, and is named from its position. Its excretory duct enters the mouth through the middle of the cheek, irregu- The shape of the gland is irregular, and is determined shape; somewhat by the bounding parts. Thus inferiorly, where there is not any resisting structure, the gland projects into the neck, and comes into close proximity with the sub- maxillary gland, though separated from it by a process of is lodged the cervical fascia: a line from the angle of the jaw to the thelaw sterno-mastoid muscle marks usually the extent of the and ear; parot^ .Q direction. Above, the parotid is limited by the zygoma and the temporal bone; and at the posterior part31 THE PAROTID GLAND. by the sterno-mastoid muscle. Anteriorly, the gland projects somewhat on the face, and has a small accessory part, socia accesso- ry part. parotidis, prolonged from it over the masseter. Connected with the anterior border is the excretory duct The — duct of Stenson {ductus Stenonis), which crosses the crosses masseter below the socia parotidis, and perforates the cheek face to obliquely opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. mouth. The duct lies between the transverse facial artery and the branches of the facial nerve, the latter being below it. A line drawn from the meatus auditorius to a little below the nostril would mark the level of the duct in the face, and the central point of the line would be opposite the opening into the mouth. The length of the duct is about two inches and its . " . length a half, and its capacity is about equal to a large crow-quill, and size, but the opening into the mouth is only large enough to allow a small probe to pass. The cutaneous surface of the parotid is smooth, and has Cutane- one or two lymphatic glands seated on it; but from the deep face of part processes are sent into the inequalities of the space between the jaw and the mastoid process. Dissection.—-By removing with care the parotid gland, the Dissec- hollows that it fills up will come into view: at the same time tion' the dissector will see the vessels and nerves that pass through the gland. An examination of the processes of the gland, and of the number of important vessels that are in relation with it, will demonstrate the impossibility of removing this body, and the dangers attending any operation on it. The duct may be now opened, and a probe passed along it to the mouth to show the diminished size of its aperture. Two large processes of the gland extend deeply into the Deep neck. One dips behind the styloid process, and projects sinks beneath the mastoid process and sterno-mastoid muscle, jaw. whilst it reaches also the deep vessels and nerves of the neck. The other piece is situate in front of the styloid pro- cess ; it passes into the glenoid hollow behind the articulation of the lower jaw, and beneath the ramus of that bone along the internal maxillary artery. Passing through the middle of the gland is the external Vessels carotid artery, which ascends behind the ramus of the jaw, nerves and furnishes the transverse facial, auricular, superficial gland, temporal, and internal maxillary branches. Superficial toDISSECTION OF THE FACE. 32 the artery is the trunk formed by the junction of the tem- poral and internal maxillary veins, from which the external jugular vein springs ; and opening into this common trunk are some veins from the parotid, whilst a branch through the gland connects it with the internal jugular vein.* Crossing the gland from behind forwards is the trunk of the facial nerve, which passes over the artery, and distributes its branches through the parotid. The superficial temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve likewise lies above the upper part of the glandular mass; and offsets of the great auricular nerve pierce the gland at the lower part, and join the facial. The The structure of the parotid resembles that of the other salivary formed glands. The glandular mass is divided into numerous small by ter~ lobules by intervening processes of fascia: and each lobule consists mination J 0 1 of the of a set of the closed terminal extremities of the excretory duct, ducts, . . i surrounded by capillary vessels. The size of these little closed sacs, which by their aggregation form the mass of the lobule, is about TJoo of an inch in diameter. From the lobules issue small ducts, which unite to form larger tubes, and finally all the ducts of the gland are collected into one. and the An examination of the common duct (duct of Stenson) will show duct has composed of an external thick fibrous coat, and of an coats. internal mucous coat which is covered with columnar epithelium. Vessels The parotid receives its arteries from the external carotid, nerves, and its nerves from the sympathetic, facial, and great auri- cular. Its lymphatics join those of the neck. Molar Two or three small glands (molar) lie along the origin of the glands, buccinator, and open into the mouth near the last molar tooth by separate ducts. Nasal Cartilages of the Nose.—These close the nasal aperture carti- lages, which exists in the skeleton, and form part of the outer nose and of the septum. They are five in number, two on each * Oftentimes a different arrangement of these veins will be found. In such case the external jugular is continued from the occipital (half or all) and posterior auricular veins. Whilst the temporal and internal maxillary veins unite to form a trunk (temporo-maxillary), that receives the facial below the jaw, and opens into the internal jugular vein oppo- site the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. When this condition exists, the temporo-maxillary trunk accompanies the external carotid artery.33 CARTILAGES OF THE NOSE. side (lateral cartilage and cartilage of the aperture), together with a central one, or cartilage of the septum of the nose. Only the lateral cartilages are seen in this stage of the dis- section. Dissection. — The lateral cartilages will be seen when all Take the muscular and cellular structure of the left side of the tume nose, and the skin of the lower part of the nostril of the same surface, side have been taken away. By passing the knife deeply in the middle line, the cartilage of the septum will be rendered apparent between the lateral cartilages of each side. The upper lateral cartilage is flattened, and is somewhat The triangular in form. Posteriorly it is attached to the nasal cartilage and superior maxillary bones; and anteriorly it meets the its fei- one of the opposite side for a short distance above, but the the mid- two are separated below by an interval, in which the carti- lage of the septum appears. Inferiorly the lateral cartilage is contiguous to the cartilage of the aperture, and is con- nected to it by fibrous tissue. The cartilage of the aperture forms nearly a ring around The the nostril; for it is bent at an acute angle in front, and cartilage from this point a piece extends backwards on both the outer rounds and inner sides of the aperture. The part of the cartilage, *o^™l't that bounds the opening externally,does not reach downwards outside; to the margin of the nostril, but ceases on a level with the groove on the outer aspect of the wing of the nose ; it is nar- row and pointed behind, but swells out in front, and forms with its fellow the prominence of the apex of the nose. The another inner part projects backwards along the septum of the nose, nostril, nearly to the superior maxillary bone ; this part assists in the formation of the partition between the nostrils, and lies below the level of the septum nasi. This cartilage of the sur- aperture has not any attachment directly to bone; but IS aper- united above to the lateral cartilage by fibrous tissue, andture* below it is connected with the dense structure that forms the margin of the aperture of the nostril. At the tip of the nose the cartilages of opposite sides touch. Behind the outer half of the cartilage of the aperture, in Acces- 0 1 sory c&r- the dense tissue that fixes it to the bone, are two or three tiiages. small pieces of cartilage (cartilagines minores vel sesa- moidese), which seem to result from the breaking up of the hinder extremity of the cartilage of the aperture. r>DISSECTION OF THE FACE. *34 Acces- The Appendages of the Eye consist of the eyebrow, the pans of eyelid, and the lachrymal apparatus. Some of these can be e eye* seen now on the opposite side of the face ; but the apparatus for the tears will be dissected after the orbit has been com- pleted. Eye- The eyebrow (supercilium) is a curved eminence just above the eye, which corresponds to the orbital arch of the frontal bone. Each consists of thickened integuments, and its prominence is also due to subjacent fat and the orbicularis palpebrarum. Each is furnished with long coarse hairs, that are directed outwards, and towards one another. Eyelids. The eyelids are two semilunar folds in front of the eye, which are freely moveable, and can be approached over the upper eyeball, or can be separated so as partly to lay it bare. The largest upper lid is the largest and the more moveable of the two, and descends below the middle of the eyeball when the two meet; it is also provided with a special muscle to raise it. The interval between the lids, when they are open, is named Jissura palpebrarum. Externally and internally they are united by a commissure or canthus. shape of The free margin is thicker than the rest of the lid, and is arg" semilunar in form for the greater part ; but towards the inner side, or about a quarter of an inch from the commissure, it becomes straight: at the spot where these differently Pane shaped parts join is a small white eminence, in which is the punctum lachrymale, or the opening of the canal for the where tears. This margin is provided anteriorly with the eye- and lashes, and posteriorly with the openings of the Meibomian tures. glands : but both the cilia and the Meibomian glands are absent from the part of the lid which is internal to the open- ing of the lachrymal canal. Eye- The eyelashes (cilia) are two or more rows of long hairs, which are fixed into the anterior edge of the free border of the lid ; they are largest in the upper lid, and diminish in length from the centre towards the sides. The cilia are so arranged as to be convex towards one another. Differ- Structure of the Eyelids. — Each lid consists funda- in eye- mentally of a piece of cartilage attached to the bones by hds* ligaments. Superficial to this is the integument, with a layer of fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum, and beneath it a mucous lining of the conjunctiva. The upper lid has also inSTRUCTURE OF THE EYELIDS. Z5 it the tendon of the levator palpebrse. Vessels and nerves are furnished to these parts. Dissection.—The student may continue with the structure Examine of the lids on the left side, on which the muscles are dissected. tureCof Let the bit of tow or wool remain beneath the lids, and letllds' the palpebral part of the orbicularis palpebrarum be thrown inwards by means of an incision around the margin of the orbit. In raising the muscle, care must be taken of the palpebral ligament, and of the vessels and nerves of the lids. Orbicularis palpebrarum. — The palpebral and ciliary Layer of fibres of this muscle form the thin pale layer that occupies ilti™' the eyelids. A thin stratum of cellular tissue, without fat, connects the muscle with the skin. The palpebral ligament is a stratum of fibrous membrane, a fibrous that is continued from the margin of the orbit to join the layer* tarsal cartilage. At the inner part of the orbit the ligament is thin and loose, but at the outer part it is much thicker and stronger. The tarsal cartilages, one for each eyelid, give the form Fibro- and strength to the lids, and are of the nature of yellow or formsage spongy Cartilage. Each is fixed internally by the ten do thfiid. palpebrarum, and externally by a fibrous band—external tarsal ligament—to the outer part of the orbit. The margin corresponding to the edge of the lid is free, and thicker than the rest of the cartilage, whilst the opposite margin is thin, and is united with the palpebral ligament. On the inner surface each cartilage is lined by the mucous membrane or conjunctiva. The cartilages are not alike in the two lids. In the upper Differ- eyelid, in which the cartilage is the largest, it is about half an the two inch wide in the centre, but gradually tapers to the ends;llds' and to its upper convex border is also attached the tendon of the levator palpebrse. In the lower lid the cartilage is a narrow baud, about two lines broad, with borders nearly straight. Tendon of the eyelids (tendo palpebrarum, tendo oculi) is Tendon a small band at the inner part of the orbit, which is attached tSll to the anterior margin of the lachrymal groove. It is about cartu a quarter of an inch long, and divides into two processes, Uges* which are united one with each tarsal cartilage. This tendon gives a fibrous expansion to cover the lachrymal sac, D 236 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. and the fleshy fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum arise from it. Foiiicu- The Meibomian glands or follicles are placed in grooves beneath8; on the ocular surface of the tarsal cartilages. They extend iage,"4j parallel to one another, from the thick towards the thin mar- gin of the cartilage; and their number is about thirty in the their upper, and twenty in the lower lid. The apertures of the ture. glands are at the posterior edge of the free border of the lid. Each gland is a small yellowish tube, closed at one end, and having minute lateral appendages connected with it. Each contains a sebaceous secretion, and is lined by scaly epithelium. Tendon If the palpebral ligament be cut through in the upper lid, tor pai. the tendon of the levator palpebras will be seen to be attached pebraj. ^ ^e Upper par£ 0f the tarsal cartilage by a wide aponeu- rotic expansion. Mucous The conjunctiva, or mucous membrane, lines the interior hning of ^ t^ eyelids, where it has numerous fine papillae, and covers the anterior part of the ball of the eye. At the free margin of the lids this membrane joins the common integument; and it is further continued down the lachrymal canals and sac to forms the interior of the nose. At the inner commissure of the caruncle ^^-^ conjunctiva forms a prominent, red, fleshy- looking body — caruncula lachrymalis, which encloses a group of mucous follicles, and has a few minute hairs on and the its surface. External to the caruncle is a small fold of the ous^oid. mucous membrane —plica semilunaris, which extends to the ball of the eye, and resembles the membrana nictitans of birds. Arteries Bloodvessels of the eyelids. — The arteries of the eyelids are furnished by the ophthalmic artery, and consist of the palpebral and lachrymal branches. Paipe- The 'palpebral arteries, one for each eyelid, run outwards from the inner canthus, lying between the orbicularis muscle and the tarsal cartilage, and anastomose" externally with the lachrymal artery. From the arch that each forms, branches are distributed andiach- to the eyelids. The lachrymal artery perforates the palpebral r}ma1' ligament near the outer part of the orbit, and its offsets supply the lid, as well as anastomose with the palpebral branches. veins. The veins of the lids open into the frontal and angular veins at the root of the nose.THE EXTERNAL EAR. 37 D 3 The nerves of the eyelids are supplied from the ophthalmic Nerves i /-> • i of lids and racial nerves. The branches of the ophthalmic nerve (of the fifth) that give fr0m offsets to the upper lid, are the following: lachry7nal, near the fitth outer part; supra-orbital, about the middle; and supra-trochlear and infra-trochlear at the inner side (p. 44.). In the lower eyelid, about its middle, is a branch of the superior maxillary nerve (of the fifth). The branches of the facial nerve enter both lids at the outer and part, and supply the orbicularis muscle; they also communicate ^ve1*1 with the branches of the fifth nerve. External Ear—The outer ear consists of a trumpet- Parts of shaped structure, named pinna or auricle, which collects ear?rnal sounds; and of a tube — meatus auditorius, which conveys those sounds to the inner ear. The pinna may be examined on the left side of the head, but the meatus will be described with the rest of the anatomy of the ear. The pinna, or auricle of the ear, is an uneven piece of Texture yellow cartilage, which is covered with integument, and is form of fixed to the margin of the meatus auditorius externus. It is pmna' of an oval form, with the margin folded, and the larger end placed upwards. The surface next the head is convex, but the opposite one surfaces is hollowed out, and presents the undermentioned elevations b/iSL and depressions. In the centre of the ear is a deep hollow nenceT" named concha, which conducts to the meatus auditorius. In front of that hollow is a projection of a triangular shape — the tragus, which has some hairs on the under-surface ; and on the opposite side of the hollow, rather below the level of the tragus, is another projection, the antitragus. The round, rim-like margin of the ear is called the helix, and the depression internal to it, the groove, or fossa of the helix. Within the helix, between it and the concha, is the large eminence of the a?itihelix, which presents at the upper part a well-marked depression, the fossa of the antihelix. Infe- riorly, the external ear is terminated by a soft, pendulous part, the lobule. The muscles of the pinna, which extend from one part of Five the cartilage to another, are very delicate, and in some bodies muscles IP 1 -TV ni n °f exter* are not to be found, h lve small muscles are usually de- nai ear. scribed, which receive their names for the most part fromDISSECTION OF THE FACE. 38 the several eminences of the external ear, except from the antihelix. seek the Dissection.—In seeking the following small muscles, let small ° ° 7 muscles, the integument be removed only over the spot where each muscle is said to be placed. A sharp knife and a good light are necessary to display the muscular fibres. Fre- quently the dissector will not find one or more of the set described below. One The muscle of the tragus is always found on the external aspect oTtrl- °f the process from which it takes its name. The fibres are short, gus- nearly transverse, and extend from the outer to the inner part of the tragus. Onefrom The muscle of the antitragus is the best marked of all. It arises gufto' from the outer part of the antitragus, and the fibres are directed helix, upwards to be inserted into the pointed extremity of the antihelix. One on The Small muscle of the helix is often indistinct or absent. It is heiix?f placed on the part of the rim of the ear, that extends into the concha. Another The large muscle of the helix arises above the small muscle of the onheiix. same part, and is inserted into the front of the helix, where this is about to curve backwards. It is usually present. And one The transverse muscle of the auricle is found at the back of the attack ear> m tne depression between the antihelix and the convexity of cha°n" ^e surface* I* arises from the convexity of the cartilage that forms the concha, and is inserted into the back of the antihelix. The muscle is mixed with much fibrous tissue, but it is well seen when this is removed. clean Dissection.—The pinna may now be detached by cutting tiiagCea.r" it as close as possible to the bone. When the integuments are entirely taken off, the cartilage of the pinna will be apparent; but in removing the integuments, the lobule of the ear, which consists only of skin and fat, will disappear. Carti- The cartilage of the pinna resembles much the external iofms ear in form, and presents for notice nearly the same parts, of exter- The rim of the helix, however, subsides posteriorly about nai ear. mj^^e 0f the pjnna jn the antihelix ; whilst anteriorly Defi- a small piece projects from it, and a fissure will be found feriorly" near tnat projection. The antihelix is divided posteriorly into two pieces ; one of these is pointed, and is joined by the helix, the other is continued into the antitragus. Inferiorly, and at the cartilage is fixed to the margin of the external auditory upper _ part of aperture in the temporal bone, and forms the outer part of39 THE FACIAL NERVE. D 4 the meatus auditorius, but it does not give rise to a complete tube, for the upper and posterior part of that canal is closed by fibrous tissue. On the posterior aspect of the concha is a strong vertical process of cartilage. In the piece of cartilage that forms the under-part of the its fis- meatus are two fissures (Santorini); one is at the base of the tragus, the other passes from before backwards. Ligaments connect the pinna with the head, and pass from Liga- one point of the cartilage to another. The external ligaments are the condensed bands of fibrous Ex- ° ternal; tissue that extend between the same points as the external muscles (p. 2.), though commonly only an anterior and pos- terior are described. The chief special ligament crosses special, the interval between the tragus and the beginning of the helix, and completes the tube of the meatus. The facial nerve (portio dura) is a part of the seventh outline cranial nerve, and confers motor power on the muscles of nerve. the face. Numerous communications take place between it and the fifth nerve, and the chief of these are found above and below the orbit, and on the side of the lower jaw. Dissection. — The facial nerve is to be displayed on the Dissec- . tion of right side of the face if time still serves (see p. 1.). Part of nerve the nerve is concealed by the parotid gland, but the greater part is anterior to the glandular mass. To expose its ramifications beyond the parotid gland, let beyond r J. r & parotid, the skin be raised from the face in the same manner as on the left side. The different branches of the nerve are then to be sought as they escape from beneath the anterior border of the gland, and to be followed forwards to their termination. The highest branches that go to the temple have been already partly dissected above the zygoma ; and their j unction with the temporal branch of the superior maxillary, and with the supra-orbital nerve has been seen. Other still smaller branches are to be traced to the outer part of the orbit, where they enter the eyelids and communicate with the other nerves in them ; and by means of this set, whilst they cross the malar bone, a junction is formed with the sub- cutaneous malar nerve (of the fifth). With the duct of the parotid are two or more large branches, that are to be followed below the orbit to their junction with the infra-40 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. orbital, nasal, and infra-trochlear nerves. The remaining branches to the lower part of the face are smaller in size: one joins with the buccal nerve at the lower part of the buccinator muscle ; and one or two others are to be traced forwards to the lower lip and to the labial branch of the inferior dental nerve, and of In order to trace backwards the trunk of the nerve through nerve in the gland, the integuments should be taken from the surface rotid.3" of the parotid as on the other side, and the gland removed piece by piece. In this proceeding the small branches of communication of the great auricular nerve with offsets of the facial, and the branches that dip down from the facial to the auriculotemporal nerve are to be sought. Lastly, the tip of the mastoid process is to be cut off with a chisel; and after turning it backwards with the sterno-mastoid muscle adhering to it, the small branches of the facial nerve to the back of the ear, and to the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, are to be looked for close to the base of the skull. Branch- The Nerve outside the Skull.—The nerve issues s?deUthe from the stylo-mastoid foramen, after traversing the aque- skulL duct of Fallopius, and furnishes immediately the three fol- lowing small branches: — Poste_ The posterior auricular branch turns upwards in front of ricuiar" the mastoid f^cess, where it communicates with the great branch. auricuiarj an(j with|pEi fcr^nch to the ear from the pneumo- gastric (eighth) nerve, and ends in auricular and mastoid offsets (p. 8.). Branch The branch to the digastric muscle generally arises in gastric, common with the next. It is distributed by many branches to the posterior belly of the muscle near its origin. Some- times one of these branches passes through the fleshy fibres, and descends to join the glossopharyngeal nerve. Branch The branch to the stylo-hyoideus is a long slender nerve, hyoid.0" that is directed inwards to its muscle, which it enters about the middle. This branch communicates with the sympa- thetic nerve on the external carotid artery. As soon as the facial nerve has given off those branches, it is directed forwards through the gland, and divides near the ramus of the jaw into two large trunks — temporo-facial and cervico-facial. The up- The temporo-facial division furnishes offsets -to theFACIAL NERVE OUTSIDE THE SKULL. 41 side of the head and face, whose ramifications extend as low pefcdm- as the meatus auditorius. As this trunk crosses over the external carotid artery, it sends downwards branches to join the auriculo-temporal division of the inferior maxillary nerve, and in front of the ear it gives some filaments to the tragus of the pinna. Three sets of branches, temporal, J^Jj™6 malar, and infra-orbital, are derived from the temporo- £granch- facial division. The temporal branches ascend obliquely over the zygoma Tempo- to the orbicular muscle and the anterior part of the occipito- branch- x es pass frontalis, in which they are united with offsets of the supra- to side of orbital nerve. The attrahens aurem muscle is. supplied by this set; and a junction takes place above the zygoma with the temporal branch of the superior maxillary nerve. The malar branches are directed to the outer angle of the Malar ° branch- Orbit, where they are distributed to the orbicular muscle and e«goto 7 J > eyelids. the eyelids. In the eyelids communications occur with the palpebral filaments of the fifth nerve (p. 37.); and near the outer part of the orbit, with the small subcutaneous malar branch of the superior maxillary nerve. The infra-orbital branches are larger than the rest, and J"tf^"or* are furnished to the muscles and integument between the branch- © es are eye and mouth. Close to the orbit, and beneath the eleva- [JJj^ tor of the upper lip, a remarkable communication, infra- ^uat£d orbital plexus, is found between these nerves and the infra- orbital branches of the superior maxillary. After crossing the branches of the fifth nerve, some small offsets of the facial nerve pass inwards to the side of the nose, and others upwards to the inner angle of the orbit, to join the nasal and infra-trochlear branches of the ophthalmic nerve. The cervicofacial division of the portio dura is smaller Lower than the other trunk, and supplies nerves to the lower part of the face and to the upper part of the neck. Its highest branches join the lowest offsets of the temporo-facial division, and thus complete the network on the face. This trunk, whilst in the parotid, gives twigs to the gland, and is united also with the great auricular nerve. The branches that are dis- three tributed from it are, buccal, supra-maxillary, and infra- branch- maxillary. The buccal branches pass forwards to the angle of the buccal mouth, where they terminate in the orbicular muscle. On es to42 DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. corner of the buccinator they join the branch of the inferior maxillary nerve to that muscle, supra- The supra-maxillary branches course inwards above the Srybe- base of the lower jaw to the middle line of the chin, and mouth supply the muscles and integument between the chin and andchm* mouth. Beneath the depressor anguli oris the branches of the facial join offsets of the labial branch of the inferior dental nerve, in the same manner as the union is made below the orbit, viz. the branches of the facial cross those of the fifth nerve in their course onward to the middle line, infra- The infra-maxillary branches are placed below the jaw, ™ryll_ and are distributed to the upper part of the neck. The branch- anatomy 0f these nerves will be given with the dissection of the anterior triangle of the neck (p. 61.). Section IV. DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. Direction,—The orbit should be dissected on that side on which the muscles of the face have been seen. Position Position.^—In the examination of the orbit, the head is body, placed in the same position as in the dissection of the sinuses of the base of the skull, open Dissection.—In order that the contents of the orbit orbit, may be seen, it will be necessary to take away the bones forming the roof of the space in the following manner: — Two cuts should be made with a saw through the margin of the orbit, one being placed at the outer, the other near the inner angle of the cavity; and these should be con- tinued backwards with a chisel, along the roof of the orbit, nearly to the optic foramen. The piece of bone included in the incisions may now be tilted forwards, but is not to be cut away. Afterwards all the rest of the roof of the orbit is to be cut away with the bone forceps, except a ring of bone around the optic foramen; and any overhanging bone on the outer side, that may interfere with the dissection, may likewise be got rid of. The dissector should take care that all the wadding is removed from the eyelids, and that the eye is pulled gently forwards. The periosteum is now left detached from the bone.CONTENTS OF THE ORBIT. 43 The periosteum of the orbit is continuous with the dura perios- mater of the brain through the sphenoidal fissure. It incases 0rbit.of the contents of the orbit like a sac, and adheres but loosely to the bones. Apertures exist posteriorly in the membrane Aper- for the entrance of the different nerves and vessels ; and on it.esm the sides prolongations of the membrane accompany the vessels and nerves that leave the cavity. Dissection.—The periosteum is next to be divided along open the middle of the orbit, and to be cut away. After the teum!" removal of a little fat, the following nerves, vessels, and muscles come into view : — The frontal nerve and vessels lie in the centre, the lachry- Position mal nerve and vessels close to the outer wall of the cavity, ofpdrts* and the small fourth nerve at the back of the orbit. These nerves enter the orbit above the muscles. The superior oblique muscle is recognised by the fourth nerve entering it: the levator palpebrae and superior rectus are beneath the frontal nerve ; and the external rectus is partly seen below the lachrymal nerve. In the outer part of the orbit, near its front, is the lachrymal gland. The frontal and lachrymal nerves should be followed for- clean wards to their exit from the orbit, and all of them backwards parts, through the sphenoidal fissure to the wall of the cavernous sinus. In tracing them back, it will be expedient to remove the projecting clinoid process, should this still remain ; and some care and trouble will be necessary in order to follow the lachrymal nerve to its commencement. The muscles and vessels, referred to above, are to be cleaned, but it is not requisite to take all the fat from the orbit in this stage of the dissection. Contents of the orbit.—Besides the eyeball and the lachry - in the mal gland, there is a great quantity of granular fat in the eyeball, orbit. Connected wTith the eye are six muscles — four seven straight and two oblique ; and there is also an elevator of the upper eyelid in the cavity. The nerves in this small several space are numerous, viz. the second, third, fourth, ophthalmic nerves! (of the fifth), and sixth nerve, and their general distribution is as follows :—the second nerve enters theej^eball, the third their is furnished to all the muscles but two, the fourth enters the bufion; superior oblique (one of the two excepted), and the sixth is spent in the external rectus muscle. The fifth nerve sup-44 DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. plies some filaments to the eyeball, but the greater number and of its branches pass through the orbital cavity to the face. some 1 c J vessels. The ophthalmic vessels are likewise contained in the orbit. Lachry- The lachrymal gland secretes the tears, and is situate in gjandis, the hollow on the inner side of the external angular process outer of the frontal bone. It is of a lengthened form, something part of # 0 ' ° orbit., like an almond ; and from its anterior part a thin piece pro- jects beneath the upper eyelid. The upper surface is con- vex, and in contact with the periosteum, to which it is connected by fibrous bands that constitute a ligament for the gland; the lower surface rests on the eye and the external rectus muscle. its ducts In structure, the lachrymal resembles the salivary glands ; upper°n and its ducts, from six to eight in number, open by as many eyehd' apertures in a semicircular line on the inner surface of the upper eyelid, near the outer canthus. Fourth The fourth nerve is the most internal in position of the three nerves that enter the orbit above the muscles. After supplies reaching this space, it is directed inwards to the superior obliqued oblique muscle, which it enters at the orbital surface, con- trary to the general mode of distribution of the nerves on the ocular surface of the muscles. oph- The ophthalmic nerve (of the fifth p. 20.) as it ap- thalmic v . . .\ nerve proaches the sphenoidal fissure, furnishes from its inner side gives three the nasal branch, and then terminates by dividing into the branch- ' . es. frontal and lachrymal branches ; the former enters the orbit between the heads of the external rectus, but the other two lie, as before said, above the muscles. Frontal 1. The frontal nerve is close to the outer side of the fourth as it enters the orbit, and is much larger than the lachrymal supplies branch. In its course to the forehead the nerve lies along lowing" the middle of the orbit, and bifurcates anteriorly into the supratrochlear and supra-orbital branches. Branch The supra-trochlear branch, which is of small size, passes inwards the pui- towards the pulley of the superior oblique muscle, where it leaves oblique tne orbit to end in the eyelid and forehead (p. 7.). Before the muscle; nerve turns round the margin of the frontal bone, it sends down- wards a branch of communication to the infra-trochlear branch some- of the nasal nerve. Frequently there are two supra-trochlear branches; in such instances one arises near the back of the orbit. The supra-orbital branch is the continuation of the frontal nerve times two45 LEVATOR PALPEBRiE SUPERIORIS. in direction and size, and leaves the orbit by the supra-orbital branch notch. It then turns upwards on the forehead, and supplies the orbital external part of the head (p. 7.). Whilst in the notch, the nerve notch* gives downwards palpebral filaments to the upper lid. 2. The lachrymal nerve, after entering the orbit in a Lachry- separate tube of the dura mater, is directed forwards in the nerve outer part of the cavity, and beneath the lachrymal gland, to the upper eyelid, where it pierces the palpebral ligament, ends in * and is distributed to the structures of the lid. The nerve furnishes branches to the lachrymal gland, and near its off- the gland it sends downwards one or two small filaments to com- Join Su- municate with the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve, ^axii- Occasionally this nerve takes also a twig of origin from the fourth lary- nerve. 3. The nasal nerve is not visible at this stage of the dis- section : it will be noticed afterwards at p. 47. Dissection, — Divide the frontal, nerve about its middle, Dissec- and throw the ends forwards and backwards: by raising the tI0n* posterior part of the nerve, the distinct origin of the nasal branch from the ophthalmic trunk will be seen. The lachrymal nerve may remain uncut. The LEVATOR PALPEBRiE SUPERIORIS is the most Superficial Elevator muscle, and is attached posteriorly to the roof of the orbit eyelid" in front of the optic foramen. The muscle widens as it ex- tends forwards, and in front of the eyeball it turns down- wards, to be inserted by a wide tendon into the upper border is at- of the tarsal cartilage. By one surface the muscle is in con- to tarsal tact with the frontal nerve and the periosteum, and by the fage- other, with the superior rectus muscle. If it is cut across is wgh- about the centre, a small branch of the third nerve will be til inlls" seen entering the under surface. The rectus superior is the upper of the four muscles upper that lie around the globe of the eye. It arises from the muscle, upper part of the optic foramen, and is connected with the origin, other recti muscles around the optic nerve. Near the front of the eye the fleshy fibres end in a tendon, which is inserted, inser- like the other recti, into the sclerotic coat behind the union tlon* of this with the cornea. The ocular surface of the muscle Position is in contact with the globe of the eye, and some vessels and parts!!" nerves to be afterwards seen ; the other surface is covered by the preceding muscle.DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 46 Upper The superior oblique muscle is thin and narrow, and muscle passes through a pulley at the inner angle of the orbit, before reaching the eyeball. The muscle arises from the inner part of the optic foramen, and ends anteriorly in a rounded enters a tendon, which, after passing through the pulley, is reflected pulley. between the superior rectus and the globe of the eye, and inser- is inserted into the sclerotic coat behind the middle of the eyeball. The fourth nerve is supplied to the orbital sur- connec- face of the muscle, and the nasal nerve lies below it. tions. W\m insertion of the muscle lies between the superior and the external rectus, and near the tendon of the inferior oblique. Pulley The pulley, or trochlea, is a fibro-cartilaginous ring about muscle, two lines and a half in length, which is attached to the de- pression of the frontal bone at the inner angle of the orbit by fibrous tissue. A fibrous prolongation is continued from the anterior margin of the pulley on the tendon as far as the eye- ball ; and a synovial membrane lines the ring, to facilitate the movement of the tendon through it. To see the synovial membrane and the tendon this prolongation must be taken away. pissec- Dissection. — The superior rectus muscle is next to be cut across about the middle, and turned backwards, when a branch of the third nerve to its under surface will be found. The nasal nerve and the ophthalmic artery and vein will be now seen crossing inwards above the optic nerve: these should be traced forwards to the inner angle, and backwards To find to the posterior part of the orbit. By taking away some of cuiar the fat between the optic nerve and the external rectus, at luon. the back of the orbit, the small lenticular ganglion and its branches will be discovered: the student will find the ciliary branches, that lie along the side of the optic nerve, the best guide to the ganglion. Tne dissector should then find the branches from the nasal and third nerves to the ganglion. And, lastly, he should separate from one another the nasal, third, and sixth nerves, as they enter the orbit between the heads of the external rectus muscle. Third The third nerve is highest in position in the wall of the nerve cavernous sinus, but at the sphenoidal fissure it descends below the fourth, and the two branches (frontal and lachry- asit mal) of the ophthalmic nerve. The nerve enters the orbit47 THE NASAL NERVE. between the heads of the outer rectus, having previously enters ,. . , t . orbit. divided into two parts. The upper division, the smallest in size, ends in the under Its upper surface of the levator palpebral and in that of the superior rectus muscle. The lower division supplies some of the other muscles, and Lower will be dissected afterwards (p. 50.). The nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve enters the orbit Nasal between the heads of the rectus, and lies between the divi- sions of the third nerve. In the orbit the nerve is directed obliquely inwards, to reach the anterior of the two foramina in the inner wall. Passing through this aperture, the nerve General appears in the cranium, at the outer margin of the cribriform thTface? plate of the ethmoid bone. Finally, it enters the nasal cavity by an aperture in the front of the cribriform plate; and after passing behind the nasal bone, it is directed be- tween that bone and the cartilage, to end on the outer side of the nose. In the orbit, the nasal lies at first over the optic nerve, but in orbit. beneath the superior rectus and levator palpebrge muscles, and afterwards below the superior oblique; in this part of its course it furnishes the following branches :— Branch- The branch to the lenticular ganglion is about half an inch long ®8' , Lonsr and very slender, and arises as soon as the nerve enters the orbit, root of This is the long root of the lenticular ganglion. largang- Long ciliary branches.—As the nasal crosses the optic nerve, it supplies two or more ciliary branches to the eyeball. These lie ciliary on the inner side of the optic, and join the ciliary branches of the es. lenticular ganglion. The infra-trochlear branch arises as the nasal nerve is about to i„fra. leave the cavity, and is directed forwards below the pulley of the Jearh" superior oblique muscle to the inner part of the orbit, where it branch, ends in the upper eyelid, conjunctiva, and side of the nose. Before this branch leaves the orbit it receives an offset of communication from the supra-trochlear nerve. In the nose. Whilst in the nasal cavity the nerve fur- in the nishes branches to the lining membrane of both the septum nose* narium and the outer wall: these will be subsequently referred to with the nose. Termination of the nasal nerve. — After the nerve he-0nthe- comes cutaneous on the side of the nose, it descends beneath face-48 DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. the compressor naris muscle, and ends in the integuments of the ala and tip of the nose. Lenticu- The OPHTHALMIC Or LENTICULAR GANGLION is a Small giion!n" roundish body, of the size of a pin's head, and of a reddish situa- colour. It is placed at the back of the orbit, between the tlon' optic nerve and the external rectus, and commonly on the connec- outer side of the ophthalmic artery. By its posterior part the tlon' ganglion has branches of communication with other nerves (its roots) ; and from the anterior part proceed the ciliary struc. nerves to the eyeball. In the ganglion are combined sen- ture. sory, motory, and sympathetic filaments. Three The offsets of communication are three in number. One, the longj long root, is the branch of the nasal nerve before noticed, which joins the superior angle. A second branch of considerable thick- short, ness {short root) passes from the inferior angle to join the branch of the third nerve that supplies the inferior oblique muscle. And and sym- the third root is derived from the sympathetic (its cavernous pathetic. piexus)5 either as a distinct branch to the posterior border of the ganglion, or in union with the long root. Ciliary Branches.—The short ciliary nerves are ten or twelve in es to-h~ number, and are collected into two bundles, which leave the upper eyeball. an(j iower parts (superior and inferior angles) of the ganglion. In the upper bundle are four or five, and in the lower, six or seven nerves. As they extend along the optic nerve to the eyeball they occupy its outer and under part, and communicate with the long ciliary branches of the nasal nerve. oPh- The ophthalmic artery is a branch of the internal caro- artery10 tid, and enters the orbit through the optic foramen. At first the vessel is outside the nerve, but it then courses in orbit, inwards, over the nerve, to the inner angle of the orbit, where it ends in terminal branches. Branch- The branches of the artery are numerous, though incon- siderable in size, and they are sometimes arranged in three sets: — one being outside the optic nerve, another above it, and a third set on its inner side. Lachry- °" The lachrymal branch accompanies the nerve of the same branch name to ^e uPPer eyelid, where it ends by supplying that part, supplies and anastomosing with the palpebral arches. It supplies branches, gland. Yi^Q the nerve, to the lachrymal gland and to the conjunctiva; it anastomoses also with the middle meningeal and deep temporal arteries, by offsets through the sphenoidal fissure and outer wall of the orbit.THE OPHTHALMIC ARTERY. 49 b. The central artery of the retina is a very small branch that Branch enters the optic nerve, and so reaches its destination in the eye- Jetina. ball. c. The supra-orbital branch arises beneath the levator palpebras Supra- . i-i ii „ , orbital and superior rectus muscles; it then takes the course oi the nerve branch, of the same name through the notch in the margin of the orbit, and ends in branches on the forehead (p. 6.). As it turns round the margin of the orbit it supplies the eyelid and the orbicularis muscle. d. The ciliary branches are uncertain in their origin, and enter Ciliary the eyeball at both its front and back. The posterior ciliary are a^pos- furnished from the ophthalmic trunk, or some of its branches. terlor' About twelve in number, they are continued to the eyeball around the optic nerve, and perforate the sclerotic coat at its posterior part. Two of this set (one on each side of the optic nerve) are two named long ciliary; they pierce the sclerotic coat further out than i0anged the rest, and are then placed along the middle of the eyeball. Clliarr; The anterior ciliary arteries arise from muscular branches of the and ophthalmic, and pierce the sclerotic coat near the cornea: in the ciliary, eyeball they anastomose with the posterior ciliary. See the dis- section of the eyeball for the anatomy of these vessels. e. The muscular branches are furnished from the artery in its Muscu- course, and those to the lower muscles often arise together. f The ethmoidal branches are two, anterior and posterior, which Eth- ^ pass through the two foramina in the inner wall of the orbit. The branch- posterior is the smaller of the two, and furnishes small meningeal es' arteries (anterior) to the dura mater of the base of the skull. The Poste- i i ... . rior and anterior branch accompanies the nasal nerve, and gives likewise anterior, small meningeal offsets to the dura mater. Both send branches to the nose through the apertures in the cribriform plate of the eth- moid bone. g. The palpebral branches, one for each eyelid, generally arise Branch. together opposite the pulley of the superior oblique muscle, and eyelids, then separate from one another. The arches they form have been dissected with the eyelids (p. 36.). h. The nasal is one of the last branches of the ophthalmic, and is distributed to the side of the nose, on which it anastomoses with the nasal and angular branches of the facial artery. i. The frontal branch turns round the margin of the orbit, and is distributed on the forehead (p. 6.). The ophthalmic vein corresponds in its course and Oph- t_ i n t thalmic branches to the artery oi the same name. It begins at the vein inner angle of the orbit, where it joins the facial vein, and receives tributary branches in its progress to the back of that E50 DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. cavity. Posteriorly, it leaves the artery, and escapes from ends in the orbit by the sphenoidal fissure, between the heads of the cavern- . ous si- external rectus. It ends in the cavernous sinus. nus. Optic The optic nerve is now seen to extend from the optic nerve foramen to the back of the eyeball. As the nerve enters the foramen, it is surrounded by the recti muscles ; and beyond that spot, as far as the eyeball, the ciliary arteries and nerves ends in entwine around it. It terminates in the retinal expansion of retina. the eye. Dissec- Dissection. — Take away the ophthalmic artery, and divide the optic nerve about its middle, together with its small Ciliary vessels and nerves. Turn forwards the eyeball, and fasten it in that position with hooks. On removing some fat, the three recti muscles—inner, outer, and inferior, and the lower division of the third nerve will appear. Lower The loiver division of the third nerve supplies three muscles of third in the orbit. Whilst entering this space between the heads of muscu. the external rectus, it lies below the nasal, and rather above the sixth nerve. Almost immediately afterwards the nerve divides into three large branches. One of these enters the internal rectus; another the inferior rectus; and the third, the longest and most external branch, is continued forwards and joins to the inferior oblique muscle. Soon after its origin, the lar gang- last nerve communicates with the lenticular ganglion, forming hon' the short root of that body, and furnishes two or more fila- ments to the inferior rectus, sixth The sixth nerve enters the orbit between the heads of enters the external rectus, below the other nerves in that interval, recteus!al and above the ophthalmic vein. In the orbit it is distributed to the external rectus muscle, straight Recti Muscles. — The internal, inferior, and external ofUeye!s rectus muscles are placed with reference to the eyeball as origin, their names express. They arise posteriorly from the cir- cumference of the optic foramen by a common attachment, that partly surrounds the optic nerve; and the external rectus has, moreover, an aditional fasciculus of origin, which is joined to that of the superior rectus, and separated from inSer. the common origin by a slight interval. The muscles are directed forwards, and have a tendinous insertion into the ball of the eye, about a quarter of an inch from the cornea. Between the heads of origin of the external rectus, the dif- tion.LOWER OCULAR MUSCLES. 51 ferent nerves before mentioned enter the orbit, viz. the third, the nasal branch of the fifth, and the sixth, together with the ophthalmic vein. Dissection.—By opening the optic foramen, the attach- Dissect P rr inferior ment of the recti muscles will be more fully seen. To dissect oblique, out the inferior oblique muscle, let the eyeball be replaced in its natural position, then by taking away the conjunctival lining of the lower eyelid near the inner part, and removing some fat, the muscle will appear beneath the eyeball, bending from the inner to the outer side. The inferior oblique muscle is situate near the anterior Lower • . oblique margin of the orbit, and diners from the other muscles in muscle, the circumstance of its course being directed across, instead of in the axis of the orbit. It arises from the superior Origin, maxillary bone, between the margin of the orbit and the groove for the lachrymal sac. From this spot the muscle Course, passes outwards beneath the inferior rectus, and between the eyeball and the external rectus, to be inserted into the inser- J , tion. sclerotic coat, between the last muscle and the superior rectus. The borders of the muscle look forwards and backwards, and the posterior receives the branch of the third nerve. The Connec- tendon of insertion is close to that of the superior oblique muscle, but rather nearer to the optic nerve. Dissection. — To expose the small tensor tarsi muscle, the Seek tensor attachment of the eyelids to the margin of the orbit must be tarsi, cut through, where this has not been done, but the lids must be left connected at the inner commissure by means of the tendo palpebrarum. By looking to the posterior aspect of the tendon attaching the tarsal cartilages, after the lids have been placed across the nose, the pale fibres of the tensor tarsi will be seen. The tensor tarsi muscle arises from the ridge on the Tensor ° tarsi os unguis, and slightly from the bone behind the ridge. Its muscle, fibres are pale, and form a very small flat band, behind the tendo palpebrarum, which divides like that tendon into a slip for each eyelid. In each eyelid the slip surrounds the inser- lachrymal canal, and blends with the other muscular fibres attlon' the free margin of the tarsal cartilage. Dissection. — A small nerve, the orbital branch of the su- Trace perior maxillary nerve, lies in the outer angle of the floor of superior the orbit, and will come into view by the removal of the iary52 DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. eyeball and its muscles. This nerve is very soft and easily broken. Two branches, temporal and malar, are to be traced forwards from it; and a filament of the lachrymal nerve is to be followed to its junction with the former. The outer wall of the orbit may be cut away, bit by bit, to follow the tem- poral branch through to the surface of the head, branch oro^a^ branch of the superior maxillary nerve arises of supe- in the spheno-maxillary fossa, and enters the orbit by the maxii- fissure of the same name. At the back of the orbit the lary nerve; nerve divides into malar and temporal branches, which ramify in the face and the side of the head. its malar a. The malar branch (r. subcutaneus malaa) is directed forwards along the floor of the orbit, and through a foramen in the malar bone to the face. After emerging from its foramen, this branch supplies the orbicularis, and communicates with the facial nerve. and tem- b. The temporal branch ascends on the outer wall of the orbit, branch either beneath the periosteum, or in a groove in the bone, and being joined by a filament from the lachrymal nerve, passes into the temporal fossa through a foramen in the malar bone. The nerve then turns upwards between the temporal muscle and the bone, and perforates the temporal fascia near the orbit. Its dis- tribution has been seen in the examination of the cutaneous nerves of the head (p. 8.). Appara- Lachrymal Apparatus.—The lachrymal gland and ducts, the with the puncta, canals, and sac, constitute the apparatus by which the tears are formed and conveyed to the nose. The gland has been already described (see p. 44.). Dissec-r Dissection.— Some bristles should be introduced into the tlon' lachrymal canals through the puncta of the eyelids that re- main attached. The lachrymal sac will appear by removing the tensor tarsi and the cellular membrane from its surface? as it lies on the os unguis. The prolongation from the tendo palpebrarum over the sac should likewise be prepared. Aper- The puncta lachrymalia are two small apertures, one for eyelids? each lid, by which the tears enter the lachrymal canals. Each is situate in the free margin of the lid, about a quarter of an inch from the inner canthus, and in the elevation of the papilla lachrymalis. canals The lachrymal canals are two small tubes that reach tears!6 from the puncta, and convey the tears to the lachrymal sac; their situation is marked by the bristles that are inserted in53 THE NECK. E 3 them. In their course inwards, the canals lie along the tendo palpebrarum, one above and the other below it, and they are somewhat arched with the concavity towards the tendon. Internally, they open near together into the lachrymal sac rather above its middle. The canal in the Differ- upper eyelid is longer and more arched than that in the the two lower lid. The lachrymal sac and duct extend from the inner part of Recep- the orbit to the nose, and convey the tears into the latter the tears, cavity. They form one tube, of which the upper dilated part is the sac, and the lower constricted end the duct. * The sac is situate in the hollow formed by the os unguis situa- and nasal process of the superior maxillary bone. Externally, the sac, it is crossed by the tendo palpebrarum, and is covered by an Stei" expansion, derived from that tendon, which is fixed to the part* margins of the bony groove. If the aponeurotic covering be removed, the mucous membrane lining the interior will be seen. Into the outer side of the sac the lachrymal canals open. The duct (ductus ad nasum) is the narrowed part of the canal tube, that reaches to the nose. It is entirely encased by \TtheS bone, and in length, size, and direction, it corresponds to the nose* passage of the same name in the dried skull. In the nasal cavity it opens into the front of the inferior meatus, and a bent probe introduced through the nostril may be readily passed into it from that meatus. The examination of the eyeball must be made on the Ana- fresh eye of either the ox or the sheep; but this may be eyebaSf omitted with more advantage to the student till the dissection wards, of the head and neck has been completed. The eyeball is described at the end of the book. Section V. DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Position.—For the dissection of the right side of the neck position let the head be supported at a moderate height, and let the pan.6 face be turned to the left side, and fastened in that position with hooks. To obtain a good view of the neck, the right arm should be drawn under the body, so that the point of the shoulder may be depressed, and the parts put on the stretch.54 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Bounda- Surface-m a rk i ng.—The side of the neck presents a some- the side what square outline, and is limited in the following way : — Inferiorly is the prominence of the clavicle, and superiorly is the base of the lower jaw with the skull. In front, the limit is marked by a line from the chin to the sternum, and behind, by another line from the occiput to the acromial end of the Division clavicle. The part thus marked out is divided into two— into two bystS-no anter*or an(^ posterior—triangular spaces by the diagonal mastoid, position of the sterno-mastoid muscle. In consequence of the direction of that muscle the base of the anterior space is at the jaw, and the apex at the sternum, whilst the base of the posterior one is at the clavicle, and the apex at the head. The surface in front of the sterno-mastoid is depressed at the upper part of the neck, over the position of the carotid ves- sels ; and behind the muscle, near the clavicle, is another slight hollow, which points to the situation of the subclavian artery. Promi- Along the middle line of the neck the following parts can themicu be recognised through the skin: — About two inches and a of neck, half from the base of the jaw is the eminence of the os hyoides, with its cornu extending laterally on each side. Below this may be felt the wide prominence of the thyroid cartilage, called pomum Adami, which is most marked in man ; and between the cartilage and the hyoid bone is a slight interval corresponding to the thyro-hyoid membrane. Inferior to the thyroid, is the narrow prominent ring of the cricoid cartilage; and between the two the finger may distinguish another interval, which is opposite the crico- and su- thyroid membrane. From this spot to the sternum, and be- pra-ster- \ . . naide- tween the sterno-mastoid muscles, is a depression, whose pression. depth is much increased in emaciated individuals, in which the tube of the trachea can be felt. In some bodies, especi- ally in women, the swelling of the thyroid gland may be per- ceived by the side of the upper part of the trachea. Direction.— As the time will not allow now the examina- tion of the whole side of the neck, the student should lay bare in this stage only the parts behind the sterno-mastoid muscle. Dissec- Dissection.— To raise the integuments from the posterior thTpia- triangle of the neck, and from the structures immediately tysma. connecte(j wjt]1 the skin may be divided along the sterno- mastoid from one end to the other, and afterwards along the55 PLATYSMA MYOIDES. E 4 clavicle as far as the acromion/ The triangular flap of skin is~to be reflected from before back towards the trapezius muscle. The superficial fascia, which will be then brought into view, contains the platysma; and to see that muscle, it will be necessary to take the subcutaneous fat from its surface. The platysma myoides is a thin subcutaneous muscular piatys- layer, which is now seen only in its lower half. The muscle de.mus" ' *is placed across the side of the neck, and extends from the top of the shoulder to the face. Its fibres take origin from the su- arises at perficial fascia over the upper part of the pectoral and deltoid der; muscles, and then ascend over the clavicle and the triangular spaces of the neck, to be inserted into the jaw. The lower inserted part of the muscle is more closely united to the skin than the m °jaw' upper, and covers the external jugular vein as well as the lower part of the posterior triangle. At first the fibres of the covers muscle are thin and scattered, but they increase in strength tnangle* as they ascend. The direction of the fibres should be noted, because in venesection in the external jugular vein the inci- sion is so made as to cut them across. Dissection.-— The platysma is now to be cut across near Dissec- the clavicle, and to be reflected upwards as far as the incision over the sterno-mastoid muscle, but it is here to be left at- tached. In raising the muscle the student must be careful of the deep fascia of the neck, of the external jugular vein, and of the superficial descending branches of the cervical plexus, which are close beneath it. The external jugular vein, commences in the parotid Exter- gland (p. 32.), and is directed backwards between the pla- iar vein tysma and the deep fascia to the lower part of the neck, where it pierces the fascia to open into the subclavian vein. Its course down the neck will be marked by a line from the crosses angle of the jaw to the middle of the clavicle. The part of neck to the vein now seen is joined by small superficial branches, vian. and an offset connects it with the anterior jugular vein. Its size, and the level at which it i crosses the sterno-mastoid muscle, are very uncertain. The deep cervical fascia consists, like the aponeuroses in cervical other regions of the body, of a superficial layer that sur- rounds the part continuously, and of processes that are pro- longed inwards between the muscles. In some bodies thisDISSECTION OF THE NECK. 56 fascia is thin and indistinct. In its extent round the neck the membrane incases the sterno-mastoideus, and presents a Part be- different disposition before and behind that muscle. As now sterno- seen passing backwards from the muscle, the fascia continues muscle, over the posterior triangular space, and then encloses the trapezius, in its progress to the spines of the vertebrae. At the lower part of the neck the fascia is attached to the clavicle, and is perforated by the external jugular vein and the cu- sends taneous nerves. After the superficial layer has been removed a process „ beneath near the clavicle, a deep process may be observed to en- clavicle. velop the small omo-hyoid muscle, and to extend beneath the clavicle to the costo-coracoid sheath of the axillary vessels. Dissec- Dissection.—By the removal of the cervical fascia and the triangu- fat from the space between the sterno-mastoid and trapezius space, muscles, the posterior triangle of the neck will come into view. Crossing the space obliquely about an inch above the clavicle, and thus dividing it into two, is the small omo-hyoid muscle. Nerves Above the omo-hyoid muscle will be found the ramifica- omo-hy- tions of the branches of the cervical plexus, together with the spinal accessory nerve : the latter will be recognised by its piercing the sterno-mastoid muscle : the greater number of the branches of the cervical plexus descend to the shoulder, but the small occipital and great auricular nerves ascend to the head, whilst the superficial cervical branch turns for- wards over the sterno-mastoid muscle, vessels Below the omo-hyoideus are the subclavian artery and the t»eiow. |)racj1jaj piexus? which have a deep position. In this part also the following vessels and nerve are to be sought, viz. the supra-scapular vessels behind the clavicle; the transverse cervical vessels beneath the omo-hyoid muscle; and, lastly, in tri- the small branch of nerve to the subclavian muscle, which space, lies about the middle of the space between the clavicle and the omo-hyoideus. POSTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. P0Ste- This space, having the form and position before noted, is angular about eight inches in length, and contains the cervical and tEeck brachial plexuses, as well as the part of the subclavian artery on which a ligature is usually placed. It is bounded in front57 POSTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. by the sterno-mastoid muscle, and behind by the trapezius. Bounda- Its base corresponds to the middle third of the clavicle, nes' and its apex is at the skull. In the area of the space are several muscles, which are to be recognised in the following order from above down, viz., splenius capitis, levator anguli scapulas, and middle and posterior scalenus ; and at the lower and outer angle, somewhat beneath the trapezius, is the upper part of the serratus magnus. Covering the space, are the structures already examined, viz. the skin and super- ficial fascia, the platysma over the lower half or more, and the deep fascia. The small omo-hyoid muscle crosses the is di- lower part of the space, so as to subdivide it into a lower or into two clavicular, and an upper or occipital part. hyoku° The clavicular part is small in size and close to the cla- Part vicle, and contains the subclavian artery. It is triangular in "f^013" form, and is bounded in front by the sterno-mastoid, above by the omo-hyoid muscle, and below by the clavicle. This small space measures commonly about one inch, and a half from before backwards, and somewhat less in front at its base. Crossing the area of this part of the space, rather above Vessels the level of the clavicle, is the trunk of the subclavian artery nerves (its third part), which issues from beneath the anterior sea- par£ls lenus muscle, and is directed over the first rib to the axilla. Above the artery are the large cords of the brachial plexus, which accompany the vessel, and become closely applied to it beneath the clavicle. Beneath the artery and the nerves and their is the middle scalenus muscle. Along the clavicular side of position, the space, and rather beneath the clavicle, are the supra-sca- pular vessels; and crossing the upper angle, at the meeting of the omo-hyoid and sterno-mastoid muscles, are the trans- verse cervical vessels. Entering the space from above is the external jugular vein, which descends over the omo-hyoideus near its anterior part, and opens into the subclavian vein ; in this spot the vein receives the supra-scapular and transverse cervical branches, and sometimes a small vein, over the clavicle, from the cephalic vein of the arm. The size of the clavicular part of the posterior triangular varia- space is influenced by the extent of attachment of the tra- Size pezius and sterno-mastoid muscles along the clavicle, since space; in some bodies these muscles occupy nearly the whole length58 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. of the bone. The space may be farther increased or dimi- nished by the position of the omo-hyoideus in the neck; for this muscle may lie close to the clavicle, being attached thereto, or it may be distant one inch and a half from that also in bone. In depth the space varies naturally, and in a short depth, thick neck, with a prominent clavicle, the artery is farther from the surface than in the opposite condition of the parts, both na. But the depth is altered much more by the position of the andarti- arm to the body, according as the limb is raised or de- pressed ; for the arm and shoulder may be carried upwards until the clavicle rises above the level of the omo-hyoid muscle, and entirely conceals the artery in its usual position. Depar- The situation of the trunk of the subclavian artery may from the vary much, for it may be one inch and a half above the cla- ordinary state of vicle, or at any point intermediate between this and its usual the ves- sels, level, just above the prominence of that bone. Further, its position to the anterior scalenus may be altered ; and instead of the vessel being beneath, it may be in front of, or even between the fibres of that muscle. Commonly there is not any branch connected with the artery in this part of its course ; but the posterior scapular branch may take origin from it at different distances from the scalenus, or there may be more than one branch (Quain). In the ordinary disposi- tion of the vessels the subclavian vein is not seen, owing to its situation being lower down, beneath the clavicle; but it not unfrequently rises upwards as high as the arteiy, or it may even lie with the artery beneath the anterior scalenus in some rare instances. The position of the external jugular vein with regard to the subclavian artery is very uncertain, and the branches connected with its lower part may form a kind of plexus over the arterial trunk. Part of The occipital part of the posterior triangular space is of lar larger extent than the other. Its boundaries in front and space t near the behind are the same as in the clavicular part, and it is head , . " ' separated from the clavicular portion by the omo-hyoid contains muscle. In it are contained chiefly the ramifications of the plexus cervical plexus; and a chain of lymphatic glands lies along lymph- the sterno-mastoid muscle. Beneath the spinal nerves is the atic glands; middle scalenus, and still farther behind are some muscles also spi- of the back before seen. The spinal accessory nerve is cessory directed obliquely across this interval from the sterno-mas- nerve.BRANCHES OF CERVICAL PLEXUS. 59 toid muscle, which it pierces, to the under-surface of the trapezius ; and a communication takes place in the triangular space between this cranial nerve and the spinal nerves. Superficial Branches of the Cervical Plexus.— Nerves . of the Behind the sterno-mastoid muscle appear some of the rami- cervical plexus fications of the cervical nerves in the plexus of the same name, and from them superficial branches are furnished both upwards and downwards. A. The ascending set are three in number, viz. small that^as- occipital, great auricular, and superficial cervical. 1. The small occipital branch comes from the second small cervical nerve, and is directed upwards to the head along occipltal the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. At first the nerve is beneath the fascia ; but near the occiput it becomes cutaneous, and is distributed between the ear and the great occipital nerve (p. 9.). Occasionally there is a second cutaneous nerve to the head. 2. The great auricular nerve is a branch of that part of great au- the plexus which is formed by the second and third nerves. Perforating the deep fascia at the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, the nerve is then directed upwards beneath the platysma to the lobule of the ear, where it ends in the following branches : — The facial branches are sent forwards to the integument over Supplies facial the parotid, and a few slender filaments pass through the gland to join the facial nerve. The auricular branches ascend to the external ear, and are auricu- lar, chiefly distributed on its cranial aspect; one or more reach the opposite surface by piercing the pinna. On the ear they commu- nicate with the branches furnished from the facial and pneumo- gastric nerves. The mastoid branch is directed backwards to the integument and ., ° mastoid between the ear and the mastoid process, and it joins the posterior branch, auricular branch of the facial nerve (p. 8.). 3. The superficial cervical nerve springs from the same |uP®r_ source as the preceding, and turns forwards round the cervical nerve. sterno-mastoid muscle about the middle. Afterwards it pierces the fascia, and ramifies over the anterior triangular space beneath the platysma myoides (see p. 61.). There may be more than one branch to represent this nerve. B. The descending set of branches (supra-clavicular) ^rves^60 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. scend are derived from the third and fourth nerves of the plexus, are and are directed towards the clavicle over the lower part of the posterior triangular space. Their number is somewhat uncertain^ but usually there are about three on the clavicle, stemai, The most internal branch (sternal) crosses the clavicle davlcu- near its inner end ; the middle branch lies about the middle and of that bone; and the posterior (acromial) turns over the miTi" attachment of the trapezius to the acromion. All are distri- buted to the integuments of the chest and shoulder. Lymph. The lymphatic glands (glandular concatenate) that lie ♦ glands along the sterno-mastoid muscle, are continuous at the lower of neck. ' part of the neck with the glands in the cavity of the thorax. There is also a superficial chain along the external jugular vein. Dissec- Dissection. — The dissection of the posterior triangle should be repeated on the left side of the neck, in order that the difference in the vessels may be observed. Afterwards the reflected parts are to be replaced and carefully fastened in their natural position with a few stitches, after preserva- tive fluid has been applied by means of strips of calico. made* Directions.—It is supposed that the body will now be now. turned on its fore part for the dissection of the back. During the period allotted for this position the student is to learn the posterior part of the neck. After the completion of the dissection of the back the student should examine the spinal cord, and then return to the examination of the front of the neck. FRONT OF THE NECK. Ex- Directions.—"When the body has been turned again, so as righ"6 to allow the dissection of the remainder of the right side of neck?f the neck, the head and neck may be taken from the trunk, supposing the thorax to be finished, by dividing the spinal column between the second and third dorsal vertebrae. By this step the student obtains the clavicles and the first ribs, and preserves the natural position of the parts at the root of the neck : he should moreover be careful to take the arch of the aorta. Position Position.—After the part has been detached, place a small of part. 1 ? r61 SUPERFICIAL CERVICAL NERVES. narrow block beneath the neck, and make this tense by means of hooks, so that the position shall be nearly the same as that for the dissection of the posterior triangular space. Dissection. — An incision along the base of the jaw will Dissec. readily allow the piece of integument in front of the sterno- mastoideus to be raised towards the middle line. Beneath the skin is the superficial fascia,, containing the ramifications of the superficial cervical nerve. The nerve is to be fol- lowed forwards from its trunk, and the fat is to be taken away from the anterior part of the platysma muscle. Platysma Myoides. — The anterior part of the platysma, patyg- viz. from the sterno-mastoid muscle to the lower jaw, covers ciein , . . , • i . front of the anterior triangular space m the same manner as it con- stemo- cealed the posterior. The fibres have the same appearance in this as in the lower half of the muscle, but they are rather stronger. At the base of the jaw they end in the following inser. manner : — the internal fibres are blended with the muscle jaw. of the opposite side; the external are inserted for the most part into the oblique line on the side of the jaw, but some are continued upwards to the corner of the mouth, or even to the zygomatic muscle ; and the intervening fibres mingle with the depressor anguli and depressor labii inferioris muscles. This part of the muscle is superficial, and conceals the following nerves : — The superficial cervical nerve has been traced from its Superfi- origin in the cervical plexus to its position superficial to the vicai fascia of the neck (p. 59.); and the nerve may arise from the plexus by two pieces. Beneath the platysma it divides into an ascending and a descending branch. The ascending branch perforates the platysma, and is distributed Branch- to the integuments over the anterior triangle, about half way down Ste- the neck, as well as to the platysma. Whilst this branch is beneath 1"™^! the platysma it joins with the facial nerve. ofSneck The descending branch likewise passes through the platysma, and is distributed below the preceding, reaching as low as the sternum. Dissection.—Raise the platysma to the base of the jaw, ™ssec_ and dissect out the cervical branches of the facial nerve that are beneath it. Clean also the deep fascia of the neck. The infra-maxillary branches of the facial nerve (rami Branch- subcutanei colli) pierce the deep cervical fascia, and pass facial forwards beneath the platysma, forming arches across the the neck.62 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. side of the neck, which reach as low as the hyoid bone. Most of the branches end in the platysma, but a few fila- ments perforate it and supply the integument. Beneath the muscle there is a communication established between these branches of the facial and the offsets of the superficial cervical nerve. Cervical The part of the deep cervical fascia in front of the sterno- front of mastoideuS is stronger than it is behind that muscle, and mastoid has the following disposition. Near the sternum the fascia forms a white firm membrane, which is attached to that. bone; but higher in the neck it becomes thinner, and is fixed to the base of the jaw and the zygoma, covering the parotid gland. From the angle and ramus of the* jaw a piece is prolonged downwards, between the parotid and sub- forms maxillary glands, to join the styloid process ; this piece is majdi- named stylo-maxillary ligament. Intermuscular partitions mentlsa" are sent between the muscles, and the layer beneath the sheath of sterno-mastoid is connected with the sheath of the cervical vessels. vessejg> Qne 0f these strata, viz. that beneath the sterno- thyroid muscle, descends in front of the great vessels at the root of the neck to the arch of the aorta and the pericardium. Dissec- Dissection. — To define the anterior triangular space, take anterior away the deep fascia of the neck, and clean the surface triangle. ^ ^ jjy0j^_ muscles that appear along the middle line, dissecting out at the same time the anterior jugular vein. Next, the parts that occupy the anterior triangle are to be brought into view by taking away the fat and fascia, but without displacing or injuring them, seek a In removing the sheath from the cervical vessels, as these nerve, appear from beneath the muscles at the lower part of the neck, the dissector should be careful of the small descending branch of the ninth nerve in front of it. In the sheath between the vessels (carotid artery and jugular vein) will be found the pneumo-gastric nerve, and behind the same the Trace sympathetic nerve. The trunks into which the artery arteries. ]3ifurcates are to fa followed upwards, especially the more superficial one (external carotid), whose numerous branches are to be traced as far as they lie in the space. Crossing and the space, in the direction of a line from the mastoid process nerves. ^ ^ hyoid bone, are the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles; and lying below them is the hypo-glossal nerve, which gives63 ANTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. one branch (descendens noni) in front of the sheath, and another to the thyro-hyoid muscle. Directed downwards from beneath the same muscles to the sterno-mastoid muscle, is the spinal accessory nerve. . On the inner side of Laryn- the vessels, between the hyoid bone and the thyroid carti-nerves, lage, the dissector will find the superior laryngeal nerve; and lying with the descending part of the superior thyroid artery, its small external laryngeal branch. Lastly, clean the submaxillary gland close to the base of clean the iaw ; and on partly dislodging it from the surface of the seek ' nerve to mylo-hyoid muscle, the student will expose the small branch myio- of nerve to that muscle with the submental artery. The interval between the jaw and the mastoid process is supposed to be cleared out by the removal of the parotid gland in the dissection of the facial nerve. ANTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. This space contains the carotid vessels, and their branches, Trian- with many nerves, and corresponds to the hollow on the fpace in surface of the neck in front of the sterno-mastoid muscle, neck. Its limits are the following: — behind is the sterno-mastoid Bounda- • m ° ries. muscle, and in front a line, from the chin to the sternum, along the middle of the neck. Above, at the base of the space, would be the lower jaw, and a line prolonged from it to the sterno-mastoideus; and below, at the apex, is the sternum. Over this space are placed the skin and superficial fascia, the platysma in part, the deep fascia, and the ramifications of the facial and superficial cervical nerves. In the area of the triangular space, as it is above defined, are seen the larynx, and many muscles converging towards the hyoid bone as a centre, some being above and some below it. Below it are the depressors of the bone, viz. omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid; and above it the elevators of the bone, viz. mylo-hyoid, and digastric and stylo-hyoid. Connected with the back of the hyoid bone and the larynx are some of the constrictor muscles of the gullet. The carotid blood vessels occupy the hinder and deeper carotid part of the space along the side of the sterno-mastoid muscle, fpaeZ m and their course would be marked on the surface by a line course. from the sterno-clavicular articulation to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process. As cover- ings.DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 64 high as the level of the cricoid cartilage, however, the vessels are covered by the depressor muscles of the os hyoides, but beyond that they are concealed only by the common coverings of the space, though, before the parts are displaced, the sterno- mastoid muscle will overhang or conceal the vessels somewhat higher — in some bodies to a level with the top of the thy- roid cartilage, and in others as far as the hyoid bone. For a short distance after its appearance from beneath the muscles at the root of the neck, the common carotid artery remains a single trunk, but opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage it divides into two large vessels, external itssitua-and internal carotid. From the place of division these bifurca- trunks are continued onwards, beneath the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, to the interval between the jaw and the Position mastoid process. At first the trunks lie side by side, the trunks vessel destined for the internal parts of the head being the to one 1 ° another, more posterior of the two, but above the digastric muscle one becomes superficial to the other. The more superficial artery (external carotid) furnishes many branches to the neck and the outer part of the head, viz. some forwards to the larynx, tongue, and face; others backwards to the occiput Branch- and ear; and others upwards to the head. The deeper trunk (internal carotid) ascends to the head without branching, and changes is distributed to the interior of the skull. But the common place of carotid does not always branch, as here said, for it some- of caro- times ascends, without division (though very rarely), furnish- ing offsets to the neck and head. Or the point of branch- ing of the vessel may be removed from the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, either upwards or downwards, so that the trunk of the carotid may remain undivided till it is beyond the os hyoides, or end in branches opposite the cri- coid cartilage. The division beyond the usual place is more Jugular frequent than the branching short of that spot. In close contact with the outer side of both the common trunk and the internal carotid artery, is the large internal jugular vein, which receives, branches in the neck corresponding to some of the branches of the superficial artery; but in some cases alters the vein covers the artery, and the branches joining it position. akoye may form a kjn(j 0f plexus over the upper part of the common arterial trunk. Nerves In connection, more or less intimate, with the large ves- in con- ,65 ANTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. ■ sels, are the following nerves : — within the sheath of the nection . . _ . _ . with the vessels, between the carotid artery and jugular vein, is the arteries, pneumogastric nerve; and behind the sheath is the sympa- thetic nerve. Crossing over the vessels, so as to form an arch below the digastric muscle, is the hypo-glossal nerve, which gives downwards a branch (descendens noni) most com- monly in front of the sheath. Along the outer part of the vessels the spinal accessory nerve extends for a short dis- tance, till it pierces the sterno-mastoid muscle. And on the inner side of the internal carotid artery, opposite the hyoid bone, the superior laryngeal nerve appears, whilst a little lower down, with the descending branches of the thyroid artery, is the external laryngeal branch of that nerve. Ap- pearing also on the inner side of the two carotid arteries, close to the base of the space, is the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, which courses forwards between them. Two glandular bodies, the submaxillary and thyroid, have Glands their seat in this triangular space of the neck. Altogether Mary in front of the vessels, and partly concealed by the jaw, is the submaxillary gland ; and beneath it on the surface of the mylo-hyoideus is the small nerve to that muscle, with the submental artery. On the side of the thyroid cartilage, and thy- between it and the common carotid artery, is the thyroid body, body, which is covered by the sternothyroid muscle: in the female this body is much more strongly marked than in the male. At the base of the space, if the parts were not disturbed, Parotid would be the parotid gland, which is wedged into the hollow sIamL between the jaw and the mastoid process, and projects some- what below the level of the jaw. Its connections have been noticed at p. 31. Direction. — The student has next to proceed with the examination of the individual parts that have been referred to in connection with the triangular spaces. Anterior jugular vein. — This small vein occupies the Anterior middle line of the neck, and its size is dependent upon the jvUe!nIar de gree of development of the external jugular. Beginning in some small branches below the chin, the vein descends to the sternum, and then turns outwards, beneath the sterno- mastoid muscle, to open into the subclavian vein, or into the F66 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. joins external jugular. In the neck the anterior and external subcla- . vian jugular veins communicate, lnere are two anterior veins, one for each side, though one is usually larger than the other, and at the bottom of the neck they are joined by a transverse branch. sterno^ The sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle forms the superficial muscle prominence of the side of the neck, and divides the lateral surface of the neck into two triangular spaces. The muscle is narrower in the centre than at the ends, and is attached to the trunk by two heads of origin, which are separated by a has its cellular interval. The inner head is fixed by a tendon to the origin at J sternum, anterior part of the first piece of the sternum, and the outer head has a wide attachment to the sternal third of the clavicle. From this Origin the heads are directed upwards, the internal passing backwards and the external almost vertically, and are blended about the middle of the neck in a roundish muscle. Near the nead the muscle ends in a tendon, and in- which is then inserted into the outer aspect of the base of the sertion . . . at skuii. mastoid process, and by a tnin aponeurotic part into a rough surface behind that process, as well as into the outer part of Guide to the upper curved line of the occipital bone. The borders of artery" the muscle correspond to the triangular spaces of the neck, and the anterior one is the guide to the position of the Position common carotid arterv. On its cutaneous surface the sterno- to other * parts, mastoid is covered by the common integuments and pla- tysma, by the external jugular vein and superficial branches of the cervical plexus (across the middle part), and by the deep fascia. If the muscle be cut through below and raised, it will be seen to lie on the following parts: — the clavicular origin lies over the anterior scalenus and omo-hyoid muscles ; and the sternal attachment conceals the depressors of the hyoid bone, and the common carotid artery with its vein and nerves. After the union of the heads, the muscle is placed over the cervical plexus and the middle scalenus, and near the skull, on the digastric and splenius muscles, with the occipital artery, and on a part of the parotid gland. The spinal accessory nerve perforates the muscular fibres about the upper third. The extent of the attachment to the clavicle varies, and in some bodies it may reach even to the trapezius, omo- The omo-hyoid muscle crosses beneath the sterno-mas- muscie toideus, and consists of two fleshy bellies united by a smallDEPRESSOR MUSCLES OF OS HYOIDES. 67 round tendon. The origin of the muscle from the scapula, begins at and the connections of the posterior part, are studied in the puia*, dissection of the back. From the intervening tendon, the and ends anterior fleshy part is directed forwards along the border of bone, the sterno-hyoid muscle, and is inserted into the lower part of the body of the hyoid bone, close to the great cornu. The connec- anterior belly of the muscle is in contact with the fascia, tlons' " after escaping from beneath the sterno-mastoid; and rests on the sterno-thyroid muscle. This muscle crosses the common carotid artery on a level with the cricoid cartilage. The sterno-hyoid muscle is a flat thin band nearer the sterno- middle line than the preceding. It arises from the posterior muscle aspect of the sternum and the cartilage of the first rib, and sometimes also from the clavicle. From this spot the fibres ascend, and are inserted into the lower border of the body of named i from its the os hyoides, internal to the preceding muscle. One attach- surface is in contact with the fascia, and is often marked by a tendinous intersection near the clavicle. When the muscle Parts ■ . . . above is divided and turned aside, the deep surface will be found to and be- rest on the sterno-thyroideus and its continuation (thyro- hyoid), also on the superior thyroid vessels. The muscles of opposite sides are separated by a cellular interval which is largest below. The origin of the muscle varies much. The sterno-thyroid muscle is wider and shorter than stemo- the sterno-hyoid, beneath which it lies. Like the other muscle hyoid muscle, it arises from the posterior surface of the fromTt? sternum, from the cartilage of the first rib below the former, mente." and sometimes from the cartilage of the second rib ; and is inserted into the oblique line on the side of the thyroid cartilage, where it is continuous with the thyro-hyoid muscle. The inner border corresponds to the middle line of Parts the neck and to the thyroid veins, whilst the outer reaches andbe- the carotid artery. The superficial surface is concealed by neath" the preceding hyoid muscles ; and the opposite surface is in contact with the lower part of the carotid artery, the trachea, and the larynx and thyroid body. A transverse tendinous line crosses the muscle near the sternum. The thyro-hyoideus is a continuation of the last muscle. Thyro. Beginning on the side of the thyroid cartilage, the fibres contfnu- ascend to the inner half of the great cornu of the os hyoides, precedf and to the outer part of the body of the bone. On the hyoides0.363 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. muscle lie the omo-hyoideus and sterno-hyoideus ; and be- neath it are the superior laryngeal nerve and vessels. This is sometimes considered one of the special muscles of the larynx. Direction.—The remaining parts included in this section are the scaleni muscles and the subclavian blood vessels, and the cervical nerves and the carotid blood-vessels. The stu- dent may examine these in the order here given. Dissec- Dissection. — Supposing the sterno-mastoid to be cut, the thTsub. fat and fascia are to be taken away from the lower part of artery" the neck, so as to prepare the scaleni muscles, with the sub- clavian vessels and their branches. By means of a little dis- section the anterior scalenus muscle will be seen ascending from the first rib to the neck, having the phrenic nerve and subclavian vein in front of it, the latter being near the rib. The part of the subclavian artery that is on the inner side of the scalenus is then to be cleaned, care being taken not only of its branches, but of the branches of the sympathetic nerve which course from the neck to the chest. This dissection will be facilitated by the removal of a part or the whole of and the clavicle. All the branches of the artery are in general branch- eag-jy foun(3? except the superior intercostal, which is to be sought in the thorax in front of the neck of the first rib. On the branch (inferior thyroid) ascending to the thyroid body, or near it, is the middle cervical ganglion of the sym- pathetic, and the dissector should follow downwards from it the small nerves to the thorax. Only the origin and first part of the course of the vascular branches can now be seen ; their termination is met with in other stages of this dissec- tion, or in the dissection of other parts of the body. In this stage the student should seek the small right lymphatic ofiym- duct that opens into the subclavian vein near its junction Puct!c with the jugular. A notice of it will be given with the lymphatics of the thorax. 0f The outer part of the subclavian artery having been pfexus?1 already prepared, let the dissector remove more completely the cellular membrane from the nerves of the cervical and brachial plexuses. From the brachial plexus trace the small subclavian branch; and some branches to the rhomboid and serratus muscles, which pierce the posterior scalenus. If itTHE SCALENI MUSCLES. 69 is necessary, the anterior scalenus may be cut through after the artery has been studied. From the cervical plexus, besides muscular branches, the of student should seek small twigs to join the descendens noni, plexus, and should define the roots of the phrenic nerve. Lastly, let the surface of the middle scalenus muscle be cleaned, as it lies beneath the cervical nerves. The scaleni muscles are usually described as three in How number, and are named, from their relative position, anterior, scaieni middle, and posterior: they extend from the first two ribs to certain of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae. The scalenus anticus extends from the first rib to the scalenus lower cervical vertebrae, and is somewhat conical in shape. antlcus* It is attached by its apex to the inner border and the upper origin surface of the first rib, so as to surround the projection on first rib; this aspect of the bone; and by its base it is inserted into the inser- anterior roots of the transverse processes of four of the U°n ■ cervical vertebrae, viz. sixth, fifth, fourth, and third. More connec deeply seated below than above, the muscle is concealed by with the clavicle and the subjacent muscle (subclavius), and by vessels,' the clavicular part of the sterno-mastoid: the phrenic nerve lies along the cutaneous aspect of the muscle, and the sub- clavian vein crosses over it near the rib. Along the inner border is the internal jugular vein. Beneath the scalenus and are the pleura and the subclavian artery, and the nerves of nerves' the brachial plexus. The insertion into the vertebrae corre- sponds to the origin of the rectus capitis anticus major muscle. The scalenus medius muscle is larger than the anterior, scalenus and extends farthest of all on the vertebrae. Inferiorly it is origin, attached to the inner border of the first rib, and to a groove on the upper surface, which extends from the posterior tubercle to the smooth surface for the subclavian artery. The muscle ascends behind the spinal nerves, and is inserted inser- into the posterior parts of the tips of the transverse processes lon" of the lower six cervical vertebrae. In contact with the an- Parts in terior surface are the subclavian artery and the spinal nerves, with it. together with the sterno-mastoid muscle, whilst the posterior surface touches the posterior scalenus and the deep lateral muscles of the back of the neck. The outer border is per- forated by the nerves of the rhomboid and serratus muscles. F 370 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. scalenus The scalenus posticus is inconsiderable in size, and ap- Attachr-' pears part of the preceding. It is attached below by a slip, ments. akout na]f an \uc\i wide, to the upper border of the second rib, in front of the elevator of that bone; and above, it is inserted with the scalenus medius into two or three of the lower cervical vertebras. Meaning The subclavian artery is a given part of the large vessel of sub. 01 0 artery11 supplies the upper limb with blood, to which this name Extends has been applied from its position beneath the clavicle. This h°mt£per vessel of the limb is derived from the branching of the inno- minate artery behind the sterno-clavicular articulation, and the part of it named subclavian extends as far as the lower border of the first rib. To reach the limb the artery crosses the lower part of the neck, taking an arched course over the bag of the pleura and the first rib, and between the scaleni and is muscles. For the purpose of describing the numerous con- into nections of the subclavian artery the vessel may be divided three . . . parts, into three parts: the first extending from the sterno-clavi- cular articulation to the inner border of the anterior scalenus; the second, beneath the scalenus; and the third, from the outer border of that muscle to the lower edge of the first rib. First First part. — Internal to the anterior scalenus the artery LTnaito lies deeply in the neck, and ascends slightly from the level is deep, of its origin. Between the vessel and the surface will be found the common tegumentary coverings and the deep fascia, the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles, and a deep process of fascia from the inner border Parts in of the scalenus muscle. Crossing the artery near the scalenus are the large internal jugular, and the small vertebral vein; and. internal to these veins is the pneumogastric nerve. Some branches of the sympathetic are likewise placed in behind, front of the vessel. This part of the subclavian lies over the iongus colli muscle, though at some distance from it, and separated from it by cellular membrane, by the recurrent branch of the pneumogastric nerve, and by the sympathetic below, nerve. Below the artery, both in this and the next part, is the pleura, which ascends into the arch formed by the vessel. Branch- Three branches arise from the subclavian in this part of its es. v extent. second ' Second part.—Beneath the scalenus the vessel is less part be-SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 71 deep than it is when internal to that muscle, and at this spot neath it rises highest above the clavicle. This second part, like the Parts in* first, is covered by the integuments, platysma, and deep front' fascia, then by the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoideus, and lastly by the anterior scalenus with the phrenic nerve. Behind the vessel is the middle scalenus. And above it, in behind, above. the interval between the scaleni, are the large trunks of the lower cervical nerves; with the exception of the trunk formed by the union of the last cervical and first dorsal, that lies between the artery and the middle scalenus. The sub- clavian vein is below the level of the artery, and separated from it by the scalenus muscle. From this part of the sub- Branch- clavian one branch takes its origin. Third part—Beyond the scalenus the subclavian artery Third is contained in the claviculur part of the posterior triangular part space (p. 57.), and is nearer the surface than in the rest of its course. This part of the artery is comparatively superficial, is super- whilst in the space before mentioned, for it is covered only Parts co- by the integuments, the platysma and deep fascia, with some %ennsi' superficial nerves of the cervical plexus and the external jugular vein ; but near its termination the vessel gets under beneath cover of the supra-scapular artery and vein, and the clavicle ' and subclavius muscle. In the third part of its course the artery rests on the surface of the first rib. Above the vessel above is the brachial plexus, and below it is the subclavian vein. low. Usually no branch leaves the last part of the artery. Peculiarities.—There are some peculiarities affecting the origin, Pecuiia- the course, and the level in the neck of the subclavian artery. origfn°of With reference to origin. The level at which it springs from [J?®nk. the innominate trunk may vary, so that in one case it may be above the sterno-clavicular articulation; in another, below that joint. Or the artery may spring as a separate trunk from the arch of the aorta ; and in such a state of the parts, the vessel takes a deeper place than usual to reach the scaleni muscles: — a condi- tion that will be referred to with the arch of the aorta in the thorax. It has been before said (p. 58.) that the artery may be course" in front of the scalenus or in its fibres; or that it may be placed and leve one inch and a half above the level of the clavicle. Branches of the subclavian. — Usually there are four Branch- branches to the subclavian artery. Three of these arise from subda- the first part of the arterial trunk ; one (vertebral) ascends te'ry ar" to the head, another (internal mammary) descends to theDISSECTION OF THE NECK. 72 chest, and the remaining one (thyroid axis) is a short thick trunk, which furnishes branches inwards and outwards. Origin These arise commonly near the scalenus muscle, so as to Crunch- leave an interval at the origin free from offsets. This in- terval varies in length, being from half an inch to an inch in the greater number of cases ; and its extremes range from somewhat less than half an inch to an inch and three quarters. But in some instances the branches are scattered over the whole extent of this part of the artery (Quain). * The fourth branch (superior intercostal) arises from the second part of the artery, or beneath the anterior scalenus, and gives off the deep cervical branch. If there is a branch present on the third part of the artery, it is commonly the posterior scapular : if more than one, the internal mammary, or some of the offsets of the thyroid axis may be added. Verte. 1. The vertebral artery is generally the first and largest tefyfn" branch of the subclavian, and arises from the upper and ' posterior part of that vessel. Ascending between the con- tiguous borders of the scalenus and longus colli muscles, this branch enters the aperture in the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, and is continued upwards to the skull, through the chain of foramina in the transverse pro- cesses of the other cervical vertebrae. Before the artery enters the transverse process it is partly concealed by the internal jugular vein, and passes beneath the thyroid artery ; it is accompanied by branches of the sympathetic nerve, and small supplies small muscular branches. Its course and distribut- es, tion will be given afterwards. on left On the left side the commencement of the vertebral artery Slde* is crossed by the thoracic duct. Differ- The origin of the vertebral may vary in its position along the p?acVof ^rst Part °ftne trunk of the subclavian; or it may be transferred origin, to the arch of the aorta, especially on the left side; or to the right common carotid artery, when the subclavian of the same side arises from the aorta. The course of the artery is not constant through the hole in the transverse process of the sixth vertebra; it may enter any other as high as the second. * The student is referred for fuller information respecting the pecu- liarities of the vessels, and the practical applications to be deduced from them, to the original and valuable work on the Anatomy of the Arteries of the Human Body, by Richard Quain, F. R. S.BRANCHES OF THE SUBCLAVIAN. 73 The vertebral vein issues with its accompanying artery, to Verte- which it is superficial in the neck, and is directed over the vein, . . • i and subclavian artery to join the subclavian vein ; it receives the branch- deep cervical vein and the branch that accompanies the ascending cervical artery. 2. The internal mammary branch leaves the lower part internal mamma- of the subclavian artery, and coursing downwards beneath ry artery • in the the clavicle and subjacent muscle, and the subclavian vein, neck enters the thorax between the first rib and the bag of the pleura. As the artery is about to enter the chest, it is crossed (superficially) by the phrenic nerve. The distribu- tion of the vessel to the walls of the chest and abdomen will be seen with the dissection of those parts. 3. Thyroid axis. — This is a short thick trunk, that arises Thyroid from the front of the artery near the anterior scalenus muscle, and soon divides into three branches : — one to the divides thyroid body, and two to the scapula that run outwards three, across the neck. On the left side of the body the thoracic duct lies in front of the thyroid axis. a. The supra-scapular branch courses outwards across the lower Supra- part of the posterior triangular space of the neck, behind the branch^ clavicle and subclavian muscle, to the superior costa of the scapula, and entering the supra-spinal fossa is distributed on the dorsum of that bone. The connections of this artery are seen in the dissec- tion of the back. b. The transverse cervical branch, usually larger than the pre- Trans- ceding, takes a similar direction, though higher in the neck, and cervical ends beneath the border of the trapezius muscle in the superficial brauch- cervical and posterior scapular arteries. (See " Dissection of the Back.") • In its course outwards this artery crosses the anterior scalenus, the phrenic nerve, and the brachial plexus, and lies in the upper part of the space that contains the third part of the subclavian artery. Some small branches are supplied by it to the Offsets, posterior triangular space of the neck. Though the transverse cervical artery supplies ordinarily the Place of posterior scapular branch, there are many examples in which, varies, though holding its usual position in the neck, it is too small in size to give origin to so large an offset. In such instances the diminished artery ends in the trapezius muscle, whilst the posterior scapular branch arises separately from the third, or even the second part of the subclavian artery. c. The inferior thyroid branch is the largest offset of the thyroid inferior axis. Directed inwards to the thyroid body, the artery passes be- branch*DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 74 neath the common carotid artery and the accompanying vein and nerves, and in front of the longus colli muscle and the recurrent nerve. In this course the vessel is tortuous. At the lower part of the thyroid body it divides into branches that enter the under surface, whilst others communicate with the superior thyroid, and with the corresponding artery of the opposite side, forming a very gives la- free anastomosis between these vessels. Near the larynx a laryn- offset6al ge(d branch is distributed to the back of that tube, and other off- sets are furnished to the trachea, and as- The ascending cervical artery is a branch of the thyroid near its cerWcai commencement; it is directed upwards between the scalenus and branch. rectus capitis anticus major, and ends in branches to those muscles and to the posterior triangle of the neck. Some small spinal branches are conveyed along the spinal nerves to the cord and its membranes. Acces- d. Lowest thyroid. — In connection with the thyroid body a third branch thyroid branch may be occasionally present, which has been named lower' art- thyroidea ima. This offset usually comes from the trunk of thyroid. ^e innominate artery, but it may spring from the right common carotid, or from the arch of the aorta. Whatever its origin, the small vessel ascends in front of the trachea to the thyroid body, and either takes the place of an absent inferior thyroid artery, or assists a smaller vessel than usual in supplying that body. Veins The veins corresponding to the branches of the thyroid sponding axis have the following destination : — those with the supra- riesne" scapular and transverse cervical arteries open in the external jugular vein. But the inferior thyroid vein begins in a plexus connected with the thyroid body, and descends in front of the trachea, beneath the muscles covering it, to end in the innominate vein, superior 4. The superior intercostal artery arises from the posterior Si arte-" part of the subclavian, and bends downwards over the neck neck. of the"first rib to the thorax. Its distribution to the first two intercostal spaces will be seen in the thorax. Deep Arising in common with this branch is the deep cervical ar.teryal artery (art* profunda cervicis). Analogous to the dorsal branch of an intercostal artery, it bends backwards between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the first rib, and ends beneath the complexus muscle at the pos- terior part of the neck (Quain).. The subclavian vein has the same limits as the artery of Subcla- J Vi*n the same name, viz. between the lower border of the first vein; 7 rib and the sterno-clavicular articulation. It is a continua-CERVICAL NERVES AND BRACHIAL PLEXUS. 75 tion upwards of the axillary vein, and ends by joining the internal jugular to form the innominate vein. Its course is nearly straight, and commonly below the level of the artery, from which it is separated by the anterior scalenus muscle. The external jugular joins this vein outside the its scalenus, and the vertebral and superior intercostal veins es; enter it inside that muscle. Into the angle of union of the opening subclavian and jugular veins the right lymphatic duct opens ; lymph- and at the same spot, on the left side, is the entrance of the ducts, large lymphatic duct. It should be borne in mind that not unfrequently the vein is as high as the artery in the third part of its course; and that the vein has been twice seen with the artery beneath the anterior scalenus. The ANTERIOR DIVISIONS OF THE CERVICAL NERVES Spring Cervical from the common trunks in the inter-vertebral foramina, and appear on the side of the neck between the inter-transverse Position muscles. These spinal nerves are eight in number, and are number, equally divided between the cervical and the brachial plexus ; the highest four being combined in the former, and the re- maining nerves in the latter plexus. At their commence- ment the nerves intermix by communicating branches, and receive offsets of communication from the sympathetic. To this general statement, respecting the position of the firstd.f nerves between the inter-transverse muscles, some modifica- fer from rest. tion is necessary for the first two nerves ; and the pecu- liarities concerning them will be noticed in Section 18. Brachial Plexus The first dorsal and four lower Brachial cervical nerves are blended in this plexus, and a fasciculus plexus is added to them from the lowest nerve entering the cervical plexus. Thus formed the plexus reaches from the lowest formed part of the neck to the axilla, where it ends in nerves for the nerves, upper limb. Only the part of it above the clavicle can now be seen. In the neck the nerves have but little of a plexi- form disposition: they lie at first between the scaleni muscles, and have the following arrangement: — The fifth and sixth nerves unite near the vertebrae ; the Disposi. : nerves in posterior scalenus; and the last cervical and first dorsal are us^the blended in one trunk beneath the anterior scalenus; so that neck' they are combined at first into three cords. Near the attach-76 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. ment of the middle scalenus to the rib, the seventh nerve throws itself into the trunk formed by the fifth and sixth, and there then result two cords to the plexus: — the one formed by the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical nerves, and the other, by the eighth cervical and the first dorsal nerve. These two trunks accompany the subclavian artery, lying to its acromial side, and are continued to the axilla, where they are more intimately blended. Branch- Branches. — The branches of the plexus may be classed into those above the clavicle, and those belowr that bone. in the The highest set end mostly in the muscles of the lower part neck are 0 d L of the neck, and in those of the chest and shoulder; whilst the other set consist of the terminal branches, and are furnished to the upper limb, with which they will be learnt. To Branches above the Clavicle. — 1. Branch to'the phrenic nerve,10 nerve. This offset conies from the trunk of the fifth cervical nerve, . and joins the phrenic on the anterior scalenus muscle. Nerve of 2. The branch to the subclavins muscle is a very slender twig, subcla- vius, that arises from the trunk formed by the fifth and sixth nerves, and is directed downwards over the subclavian artery to the under- surface of the muscle; it is often united with the phrenic nerve at the lower part of the neck. Nerve of 3. The branch for the rhomboid muscle springs from the fifth rhom- . _ r , . f ° boideus, nerve in the substance of .the posterior scalenus, and perforates the fibres of that muscle; it is afterwards directed beneath the levator anguli scapulae to its destination. Branches are usually given from this nerve to the levator anguli scapulae. Nerve of 4. The posterior thoracic nerve (nerve of the serratus, external ' respiratory nerve of Bell) is contained in the scalenus, like the preceding, and arises from the fifth and sixth nerves, near the intervertebral foramina. Piercing the fibres of the scalenus lower than the preceding branch, the nerve is continued behind the brachial plexus, and enters the serratus magnus muscle on the axillary surface. Nerves 5. Branches for the scaleni and longus colli muscles. — These are niand6" small twigs that are seen when the anterior scalenus is divided; colli"8 *ney arise from the trunks of the nerves as soon as these leave the spinal canal. Supra. 6. The supra-scapular nerve is larger than either of the others. nerve. It arises near the subclavian branch from the same cord of the plexus formed by the fifth and sixth nerves. Its destination is the dorsum of the scapula, on which it will be dissected. cervical The cervical plexus is formed by the anterior divisions plexus is77 CERVICAL PLEXUS. of the first four cervical nerves. Situate at the upper part of the neck, it lies beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle, and on the middle scalenus and levator auguli scapulae. Its ap- pearance differs much from that of the brachial plexus, for it resembles a network more than a bundle of large cords. The following is the general arrangement of the nerves in formed ; the plexus : — each nerve, except the first, divides into an branch- ' ' . i°g of ascending and a descending branch, and these unite with the ° . . . nerves. similar parts of the contiguous nerves, so as to give rise to a series of arches. From these loops or arches the different branches arise. Branches. — The branches of the plexus are both super- its A 1 offsets ficial and deep. The superficial set are described with the are su. . perficial, triangular space of the neck, as consisting of ascending and descending- nerves (p. 59.). In this stage of the dissection the ascending branches are seen to spring from the union of the second and third nerves, and the descending ones to come from the loop between the third and fourth nerves. The deep set of branches remain now to be examined. b?anch-P The deep branches op the plexus are both muscular es- Deep and communicating, and may be arranged into an internal branches and an external series. A. Internal Series.— 1. The phrenic or muscular nerve of Phrenic the diaphragm is derived from the third and fourth nerves of the plexus, and is usually joined by a fasciculus from the fifth cervical nerve. Descending obliquely on the surface of the anterior sca- lenus, from the outer to the inner edge, it enters the chest in front of the internal mammary artery, but behind the subclavian vein, and traverses that cavity to reach the diaphragm. At the lower part of the neck the phrenic nerve is joined by a filament of the sympathetic, and sometimes by an offset of the nerve to the sub- clavian muscle. 2. The branches communicating with the descendens noni are two Nerves in number. One of the branches arises from the second, and the descend- other from the third cervical nerve; they are directed inwards ensnom' either over or under the internal jugular vein, and communicate with the descending muscular branch (descendens noni) of the ninth nerve. 3. Muscular branches are furnished to the recti muscles; these Branch- arise from the loop between the first two nerves, and from the recti, trunks of the other nerves close to the intervertebral foramina. 4. Some connecting branches pass from the loop between the first Branch- es toDISSECTION OF THE NECK. 78 other two nerves to the sympathetic, and to the cranial nerves near the nerves. Q^ ^e skull, these will be afterwards referred to. Branch- B. External or Posterior Series.— 1. Muscular branches are other given from the second nerve to the sterno-mastoideus; from the muscles, ^ircj nerve to the levator anguli scapulae; and from the third and fourth nerves to the trapezius. Further, some small branches supply the substance of the middle scalenus. Branch- 2. Connecting branches from the spinal accessory nerve. — The fngTpi- communications between this cranial and the spinal nerves are nu- cessory. merous. First, in the sterno-mastoid muscle; next, in the posterior triangular space; and, lastly, beneath the trapezius. The union with those branches that are distributed to the trapezius has almost the appearance of a plexus. Common The common carotid artery is the chief vessel for the artery, supply of blood to the neck and head, and is remarkable in not furnishing collateral branches. The origin of the vessel is different on the two sides of the body, being, on the right, at the lower part of the neck, and on the left, in the thorax. Origin. The artery of the right side commences opposite the sterno-clavicular articulation at the bifurcation of the inno- minate artery, and ends at the upper border of the thyroid cartilage by dividing into the two trunks before seen, viz. Course, external and internal carotid arteries. The course of the artery is along the side of the trachea and larynx, gradually diverging from the vessel on the opposite side in consequence situa- of the increasing size of the larynx ; and its position will be marked by a line from the sterno-clavicular articulation to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process. Contained in a sheath of cervical fascia, with the internal jugular vein to its outside, and the pneumo- gastric nerve between the two, the carotid artery has the Partsco- following connections with the surrounding parts : — As high ' as the cricoid cartilage the vessel is deeply placed, and is concealed by the common coverings of the skin platysma and fasciae, and by the muscles at the lower part of the neck, viz. sterno-mastoid (sternal origin), sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and omo-hyoid; and beneath the muscles by the middle thy- roid vein. But above the cricoid cartilage to its termination the artery lies near the surface, and is covered only by the common investments of the part; superficial to it here is the descendens noni nerve, and crossing the upper part are the79 INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN. superior thyroid veins. The vessel rests on the longus colli beneath muscle, on the sympathetic nerve and its branches, and on the recurrent nerve and the inferior thyroid artery. To the and on J ' J its sides. inner side of the carotid lie the trachea and larynx, with the oesophagus and the thyroid body, the last overhanging the vessel by the side of the larynx. Along the outer side of the carotid sheath is a chain of lymphatic glands. Internal jugular vein. — This vein extends upwards to internal jugular the base of the skull by the side of the carotid blood vessels, vein but only the part of it that accompanies the common carotid artery is now seen. Placed on the outer side of the artery, the vein ends below by uniting with the subclavian in the innominate vein. Its proximity to the carotid is not equally lies close in all the extent of this vessel, for at the lower part of side of artery, the neck the vein inclines outwards, leaving a space between it and the artery, in which the vagus nerve is seen, about except midway between the two. In this part of its course the vein Branch- receives the superior and middle thyroid branches. Peculiarities. — Some of $he following peculiarities of the com- Differ- mon carotid may be met with. Its origin on the right side may origin1;"1 be above or below the given point; or it may be transferred to the arch of the aorta, or, to the left carotid in the thorax. Mention has been made of the difference in the place of bifurcation above, and of the fact that, occasionally, the common carotid artery is not divided into two. (See page 64.) Instead of one there may be two trunks issuing from beneath in num. the hyoid muscles, for the common carotid has been found divided ber' in one case after an extent of one inch and a half. As an ex- tremely rare occurrence, its usual terminal branches, the external and internal carotids, may arise as distinct arteries from the arch of the aorta. Usually the common carotid is without branch, but it may give its origin to the superior thyroid, the inferior thyroid, or the vertebral e^ch~ artery. Dissection. — The dissector may next trace out completely Dissec- the trunk of the external carotid, and follow its branches until they disappear beneath different parts. Afterwards he may separate from one another the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, which cross the carotid, and define their origin and insertion. The digastric muscle consists of two fleshy bellies, Digas- united by an intervening tendon, whence its name. The muscle80 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. has two posterior belly, the larger of the two, arises from the groove beneath the mastoid process, whilst the anterior belly takes origin from the border of the lower jaw, on the side of the symphysis. From these places of origin the fibres are directed to the intervening tendon : — those of the posterior belly are the longest, and are inclined obliquely forwards, and those of the anterior belly pass downwards, but less ob- which liquely. The tendon of the muscle is surrounded by fibres are join- # . J edbya, of the stylo-hyoideus ; and it is attached to its fellow and to tendon. J J the os hyoides by means of an aponeurotic expansion, that keeps in position the arch of the muscle, and is inserted below into the body, and a part of the great cornu of the Position hyoid bone. The arch formed by the digastric is superficial, to other J . . parts. except at the outer part, where it is beneath the sterno and trachelo-mastoid muscles. The posterior belly crosses the carotid vessels and the accompanying veins and nerves, and is placed across the anterior triangular space of the neck in the position of a line from the mastoid process to the hyoid bone ; along its lower border will be found the occipital artery and the hypo-glossal nerve, the former passing back- wards, the latter forwards. The anterior belly rests on the mylo-hyoid muscle. The The digastric muscle describes an arch across the side of muscle ° bounds a the neck, and forms the lower boundary of a space that reaches space m . upwards to the jaw and the mastoid process, and to the base of the skull in front of the ear. This space is divided that con- into two parts by the stylo-maxillary ligament. In the pos- rotid and terior part are contained the parotid gland and the vessels maxii- and nerves in connection with it (p. 31.); in the anterior glands, are the submaxillary gland and the facial vessels, and deeper still the muscles between the chin and the hyoid bone, stylo- The styxo-hyoid muscle is thin and slender, and has the us°lde same position as the posterior belly of the digastric. It origin, arises from the outer aspect of the styloid process, near the inser- base or about the middle, and is inserted into the body of the sur- os hyoides. The muscle has the same connections as the digastric digastric (posterior belly) : and its fleshy fibres are usually tendon. perforate(j ^e tendon of that muscle. In many bodies the stylo-hyoid muscle is absent. Ninth The hypo-glossal nerve (ninth cranial) may now be the ante- examined, at least that part of it which is seen in the anteriorEXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 81 triangle of the neck. Appearing at the lower edge of the nor tn- digastric muscle, the nerve hooks round the occipital artery; angle' it is then directed forwards below the digastric, and disap- pears in front beneath the mylo-hyoid muscle. As the nerve crosses the neck, it lies over the carotid vessels ; and near the cornu of the os hyoides it crosses the lingual artery, so as to become higher than it. Branches, — In this part of its course the nerve gives the its descendens noni branch, and a small muscular offset to the hereahreS thyro-nyoideus. iar. The descending branch (ram. descend, noni) arises from the Branch trunk of the hypo-glossal on the outer side of the carotid artery, hyoid er and descends on the front, or in the sheath of the vessel, to about muscles the middle of the neck, where it is joined by the communicating branches of the cervical nerves. After the union of the spinal is joined nerves offsets are supplied to the lower hyoid muscles, viz. omo- Ticai °er" hyoid (both bellies), sternohyoid, and sterno-thyroid. Some- nerves times another offset is continued to the thorax, where it joins the phrenic and cardiac nerves. The connection between the descen- by inter- dens noni and the spinal nerves is formed by two or more cross n?catin^ filaments, so as to construct an arch with the concavity upwards; fibres- and an interchange of filaments between the two nerves has been described. The EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY Springs from the bifur- External cation of the common carotid at the upper border of the vesseL thyroid cartilage, and furnishes branches to the face, the neck, and the outer parts of the head. From the place of origin the vessel ascends to the interval Extent, between the jaw and the mastoid process, and ends in the internal maxillary and temporal branches, near the condyle of the jaw. In this course the artery lies at first to the Course inner side of the internal carotid, but it afterwards becomes Action, superficial to this vessel; and its direction is somewhat- arched forwards, though the position would be marked suffi- ciently by a line from the front of the meatus of the ear to the cricoid cartilage. At first the external carotid is com-Parts su- paratively superficial, and easily reached from the surface, t0en,clal being overlaid only by the common coverings of the anterior triangular space, viz. the skin, the superficial and deep fasciae with the platysma, and the superficial nerves. But above the situation of a line extended from the mastoid82 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. process to the hyoid bone, the carotid artery is crossed by the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles with the hypo-glossal nerve; and still higher it enters the substance of the parotid gland, where it lies beneath the facial nerve and the external jugular vein. The external carotid is also crossed by the beneath branches of veins joining the internal jugular trunk. At first the artery is situate over the superior laryngeal nerve, and is unsupported by muscular fibre, though it rests against the pharynx ; but above the angle of the jaw it is placed over the styloid process and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and on which separate it from the internal carotid. To the inner side?" side °f tne vessel at first is the pharynx, and still higher are the ramus of the jaw and the stylo-maxillary ligament. In certain conditions a companion vein from the temporal and internal maxillary (p. 32.) will accompany the arterial trunk. its The branches of the external carotid are numerous, and es are1" are classed into an anterior, posterior, and ascending set. The anterior, anterior set comprise branches to the thyroid body, the tongue, and the face, viz. superior thyroid, lingual, and facial arteries; poste- in the posterior set are the occipital and posterior auricu- la* lar branches; and the ascending set include the ascending ascend- pharyngeal, temporal, and internal maxillary arteries. Be- sides these, the carotid gives other branches to the sterno- mastoid muscle and the parotid gland, change The regular origin of the branches, as this will be described in origin may De departed from by means of the closer aggre- andin gation of the branches on the trunk of the carotid. And number, further5 the usual number may be diminished by two or more taking origin in common; or the number may be increased by some of the secondary offsets being transferred to the parent trunk. Branch- All the branches, except the ascending pharyngeal, lingual, es now . t , seen are and internal maxillary, may now be examined; but those three will be afterwards described with the regions they occupy. superior The superior thyroid artery arises near the cornu of the os thyroid, jjyoides, an(j |urns downwards on the inner side of the com- mon carotid artery, passing beneath the omo-hyoid, sterno- hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles, to the thyroid body, to has off- which it is distributed on the anterior aspect. This branch sa*to ,g gUper£cia] jn the anterior triangle, and furnishes offsets to83 BRANCHES OF THE CAROTID ARTERY. the lowest constrictor as well as to the muscles beneath which it is continued, in addition to the following named branches: — a. The liyoid branch is very inconsiderable in size, and runs in- the wards below the hyoid bone ; it supplies the parts attached to that bone, bone, and anastomoses with the vessel of the opposite side. b. A branch for the sterno-mastoid muscle lies in front of the sterno- . .. . . _ mastoid sheath of the common carotid artery, and is distributed chiefly to muscle, the muscle from which it takes its name. c. The laryngeal branch pierces the membrane between the hyoid to ia-§ bone and thyroid cartilage, with the superior laryngeal nerve, and rynx'- ends in the interior of the larynx. d. A small crico-thyroid branch is placed on the membrane be- to crico- tween the cricoid and thyroid cartilages, and communicates with mem°-d the corresponding artery of the opposite side, forming an arch. *>rane. The superior thyroid vein commences in the larynx and Accom- the thyroid body, and crosses the end of the common carotid vein, artery, to open into the internal jugular vein. The facial artery arises above the lingual, and is directed Facial upwards over the lower jaw to the face. In the neck the artery* artery passes beneath the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and is afterwards received on the submaxillary gland, on which it makes a remarkable sigmoid turn. Its disposition supplies in the face has been examined (p. 25.). The cervical part in the of the artery gives branches to the pharynx, and to the parts below the jaw, viz.: — a. The inferior palatine branch ascends to the pharynx beneath to the the jaw, passing between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus palate' muscles. In its course it furnishes a branch to the tonsil, and it is distributed to the soft palate. This branch frequently arises from the ascending pharyngeal artery. b. ' The tonsillar branch is smaller than the preceding, and ascends tonsil, between the internal pterygoid and stylo-glossus muscles. Oppo- site the tonsil it perforates the constrictor muscle, and ends in branches to that body. c. Glandular branches are supplied to the submaxillary gland, sub- and are given from the part of the artery in contact with it. laryll" d. The submental branch arises near the inferior maxilla, and gland passes forwards on the mylo-hyoideus to the anterior belly of the myio- digastric muscle, where it ends in branches; some of these turn m}uscie over the jaw to the chin and lower lip; and the rest supply the muscles between the jaw and the hyoid bone, one or two perfora- g 284 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. ting the mylo-hyoideus and anastomosing with the sublingual artery. Facial The facial vein (p. 29.) joins the internal jugular vein. vem* In the cervical part of its course it receives branches corre- sponding to those of the artery, and often throws itself into the temporo-maxillary trunk, occipi. The occipital artery is of considerable size, and is destined artery for the back of the head. It arises from the carotid opposite the facial branch, and at the lower border of the digastric muscle. From this spot the artery ascends to the inner part ends on of the mastoid process of the temporal bone ; next it turns occiput, jlorjzon^aj]y backwards on the occipital bone, passing above the transverse process of the atlas ; and finally becomes in neck cutaneous near the middle line (p. 6.). In the neck this offseTto artery passes beneath the digastric muscle and a part of the parotid gland, and crosses over the internal carotid artery, the jugular vein, and the spinal accessory and hypo-glossal nerves. the dura The only offset from the artery in the front of the neck is a mater* small posterior meningeal branch to the dura mater in the posterior fossa of the base of the skull. This ascends along the internal jugular vein, and enters the skull by the foramen lacerum (p. 17.). The branches at the back of the neck will be afterwards seen. Occipi- The occipital vein begins at the back of the head (p. 6.), and has the same course as the artery; it communicates with the lateral sinus through the mastoid foramen, also with the diploic veins, and opens into the internal jugular, sometimes into the external jugular vein. Poste- The posterior auricular artery is smaller than the pre- auri- ceding branch, and takes origin above the digastric muscle. cular ° 7 ° #° artery in Ascending in the same direction as 'the occipital artery,' viz. supplies to the interval between the ear and the mastoid process, it divides finally into two branches for the ear and occiput (p. 6.). a branch A small branch, stylo-mastoid, enters the foramen of the same to the _ ... ' . , . ear. name, and supplies the internal ear. Vein The vein with the artery receives a stylo-mastoid branch, artery, and terminates in the trunk formed by the temporal and in- ternal maxillary veins. Tempo- The temporal artery is in direction the continuation of the tery, external carotid trunk, and is one of the terminal branches of that artery. Ascending through the parotid gland, in the85 BRANCHES OF THE CAROTID ARTERY. interval between the ear and the articulation of the jaw, the besides , • -I i terminal vessel divides on the temporal fascia, about two inches above branch- the zygoma, into anterior and posterior branches ; and these es'slves are distributed to the front and side of the head (p. 6.). The trunk of the artery gives offsets to the surrounding parts : viz.: — a. Parotid branches are furnished to the gland which conceals branch- . es to the artery. Articular twigs are supplied to the articulation of the parotid, lower jaw, and other muscular branches enter the masseter. Some cuiation anterior auricular branches are also distributed to the pinna and ^dthe meatus of the external ear. ear\ b. The transverse facial branch quits the temporal artery oppo- J^JJjJ1 site the condyle of the jaw, and is directed forwards over the mas- seter muscle (p. 30.); on the side of the face it supplies the muscles and the integuments, and anastomoses with the facial artery. c. The middle temporal branch arises iust above the zygoma, and Branch r J J ° ' to tem- pierces the, temporal aponeurosis to enter the substance of the porai temporal muscle. In the muscle it anastomoses with branches of the internal maxillary artery. d. A small branch of the temporal artery is likewise found and of between the layers of the temporal fascia; this becomes cutaneous pie. near the orbicularis muscle. The temporal vein commences on the side of the head Corre- /. hr \ i • • • xt i sponding (p. 7.), and is contiguous to its companion artery. Mear the vein, zygoma it is joined by the middle temporal vein; next by other branches corresponding to those of the artery ; and finally it ends by uniting with the internal maxillary vein. Directions.—The lower part of the neck will not be again returned to for some days, so that the dissector may stitch together the flaps of skin, when he has applied the fluid to preserve it. Section VI. PTERTGO-MAXILLARY REGION. In this region are included the muscles superficial to and Contents beneath the ramus of the jaw, together with the articulation region, of the bone. In connection with the muscles (pterygoid) beneath the ramus of the jaw, are the internal maxillary blood vessels and the inferior maxillary trunk of the fifth nerve. Dissection. — The masseter muscle which is superficial to Dissec- *■ tion. G 386 DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. has two Superfi- cial is di rected tlie jaw, comes first in the order of position. To see it the branches of the facial nerve and the transverse facial artery should be cut through, and turned backwards off the face. A little cleaning will suffice to show the fibres, and to define the origin and insertion of the muscle. Should there be in the mouth any of the material that made tense the fibres of the orbicularis, let it be removed. The masseter muscle conceals the ramus of the lower jaw, and is divided into two parts, superficial and deep, by parts, means of an aponeurosis, which projects above into the muscular fibres. The superficial part arises from the anterior two-thirds of the zygomatic arch, and its fibres are directed downwards back. and backwards to be inserted into the angle, and into the wards. ° 7 D lower half of the ramus of the jaw. The deeper part takes wards*" or^n by fleshy fibres from the remaining third, and from all the posterior aspect of the arch; and its fibres, taking an opposite direction to those of the superficial part, are inserted into the outer surface of the coronoid process and ramus of the jaw above the attachment of the other part of the muscle. Muscle ^ne l°wer Par^ °f tne niasseter is subcutaneous, but the subcuta uPPer *s Partty concealed by the parotid gland (socia paro- neous; tidis), and is crossed by Stenson's duct, and by the transverse facial vessels and the facial nerve. The anterior border pro- jects over the buccinator muscle, and a quantity of fat re- sembling that in the orbit is found beneath it. The muscle lies on & the jaw. covers the ramus of the jaw, and the masseteric branch of nerve and artery that enter it by the under-surface. Dissection.— To lay bare the temporal muscle to its inser- tion, the following dissection may be made : —The temporal muscle ^asc^a *s to ^e detached from the upper border of the zygo- matic arch, and removed from the surface of the muscle. Next, the arch is to be sawn through in front and behind, so as to include its whole length ; and to be thrown down with the masseter muscle still attached to it, by separating the fibres of the muscle from the upper part of the ramus of the jaw. In detaching the masseter muscle, the nerve and artery to it, that appear through the sigmoid notch, will be found. The surface and insertion of the temporal muscle may then be cleaned, inser- Afterwards, to see the insertion and extent of origin of To see surface of tem-87 INSERTION OF TEMPORAL MUSCLE. the muscle, let the coronoid process be sawn off by a cut passing from the centre of the sigmoid notch nearly to the last molar tooth, in order to include the whole of the insertion of the muscle; and in this proceeding, let the student be careful of the buccal artery and nerve issuing from beneath it. Lastly, the coronoid process should be raised in order that the extent of the lower fibres of the temporal muscle and their contiguity to the external pterygoid, close below them, may be observed. The temporal muscle has been before seen to occupy the Origin of upper part of the temporal fossa (p. 4.); and by the previous p0rai dissection it has been laid bare in the lower part of the fossa. The origin of the muscle is the following : — It occupies the whole of the temporal fossa, reaching up to the semicircular line on the side of the skull, and downwards to the crest on the outer aspect of the great wing of the sphenoid bone. From this extensive origin the fibres con- verge to a superficial tendon, which is inserted into all the imer- inner surface of the conoroid process, from the apex to near tlon' the last molar tooth. Behind the posterior border of the tendon are the masseteric vessels and nerve, and in front of it the buccal vessels and nerve: the last nerve occasionally perforates some of the fibres of the muscle. Dissection, — For the display of the pterygoid muscles, it To will be necessary to remove a piece of the ramus of the jaw. ptery- But first, the greater part of the temporal muscle is to be g°ld" detached from the subjacent bone with the handle of the scalpel, and the deep temporal vessels and nerves to be sought in the fibres of the muscle. A piece of the ramus of the jaw is next to be removed, but without injuring the vessels and nerves in contact with its inner surface, by sawing across the bone close to the condyle, and again close above the dental foramen ; and to make the dental vessels and nerve secure from injury, the handle of the scalpel may be inserted close beneath the bone and carried downwards to the entrance of the foramen. The masseteric artery and nerve are liable to be cut in sawing the bone ; should these be divided, turn them upwards for the present, and after- wards unite the ends. After the loose piece of bone has been removed, and the subjacent parts freed from fat, the pterygoid muscles will appear, — the external being directed88 DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. outwards to the condyle of the jaw, and the internal, which is parallel in direction to the masseter, being inclined to the angle of the jaw. In removing the cellular membrane, the student must be careful not to take away the thin fascia of the internal lateral ligament, which is beneath the jaw. Position Many vessels and nerves will be found in this region, parts?. witn tne following position to other parts. Crossing inwards over the external pterygoid muscle, is the internal maxillary artery, which distributes offsets upwards and downwards ; sometimes this artery will be placed beneath the muscle. Escaping from beneath the lower border of the same muscle are the large dental and gustatory nerves, the latter being the more internal of the two; and appearing between the upper border of the muscle and the cranium, are the mas- seteric and deep temporal nerves. The buccal branch of nerve perforates the fibres of the external pterygoid near its inner attachment. Branches of the above-mentioned artery accompany these nerves. At the anterior part of the space now dissected, coursing along the posterior part of the upper jaw, is the small posterior dental nerve with an artery, inter- Between the jaws is the whitish narrow band of the Sry " pterygo-maxillary ligament, to which the buccinator and superior constrictor muscles are connected. External The external pterygoid muscle extends almost hori- £oidy~ zontally from the zygomatic fossa to the condyle of the lower zontai." jaw. Its origin is from the surface of bone corresponding to the zygomatic fossa, viz. from the great wing of the sphenoid Attach- bone, below the crest on it, from the outer- aspect of the external pterygoid plate, and from the tuberosity of the palate, and of the superior maxillary bone. The fibres are directed outwards and somewhat backwards, those attached to the margin of the spheno-maxillary fissure forming at inser- first a separate bundle, and are inserted into the hollow in tl0n front of the neck of the lower jaw bone, and into the inter- contigu-articular cartilage of the joint. Externally the muscle is parts, concealed by the temporal muscle and the lower jaw, and the internal maxillary artery lies on it. By the deep surface it is in contact with the inferior maxillary nerve, with a plexus of veins, and with the internal lateral ligament. The parts * in contact with the borders of the muscle have been enume- a second rated in the dissection of the region. Sometimes the slip of head.89 TEMPORO-MAXILLARY JOINT. the muscle, attached to the margin of the spheno-maxillary fissure and the root of the external pterygoid plate, is described as a separate head with an insertion chiefly into the inter- articular cartilage. The INTERNAL PTERYGOID MUSCLE is nearly parallel tO the Internal J 1 ptery- ramus of the law, and its fibres are longer than those of the goidis J ' ° beneath preceding muscle. Arising from the pterygoid fossa, but |JjJsrjJ" chiefly from the inner surface of the external pterygoid plate, the jaw; the fibres descend to be inserted into the angle and inner surface of the ramus of the jaw, as high as the inferior dental foramen. On the muscle are placed the dental and vessels gustatory nerves, the dental artery, and the internal lateral nerves ligament. The deep surface is in connection below with the superior constrictor, and at its origin with the tensor palati muscle. Directions* — Before proceeding farther in the dissection, the student may learn now with advantage the anatomy of the articulation of the lower jaw. Temporo-maxillary. Articulation. — In this joint the j0intof condyle of the jaw is received into the anterior part of the Jaw?r hollow of the glenoid fossa of the temporal bone. The bones are retained in contact mostly by the strong muscles of the lower jaw ; but the following ligaments are concerned in uniting them. The external lateral is a short, ligamentous band, which External is attached above to the tubercle at the point of bifurcation and of the root of the zygoma, and below to the outer side of the neck of the inferior maxilla. The internal lateral ligament is a long, thin, membranous internal band, which is not in contact with the joint. Superiorly it liga- is connected by a pointed piece to the spinous process of the sphenoid, and the vaginal process of the temporal bone; and in- feriorly is inserted into the orifice of the dental canal in the lower jaw. This ligament lies beneath the ramus of the jaw, between it and the internal pterygoid muscle, and its . origin is concealed by the external pterygoid muscle. Be- tween the ligament and the jaw is the internal maxillary artery. Besides these ligaments there are some scattered fibres Capsule.DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. 90 surrounding the articulation, which serve the purpose of a capsular membrane. Dissec- Dissection. — After the external lateral ligament and the capsule of the joint have been removed, an inter-articular cartilage, with a synovial membrane above and below it, will be exposed. Fibro- The inter-articular fibro-cartilage is adapted to the sur- iage;" faces of the bones. It is elongated transversely, is thin- ner in the centre than at the margins, and an aperture is its form sometimes present in the middle. The upper surface fits into the glenoid fossa, being concavo-convex from before backwards, and the lower is moulded to the convexity of and the condyle of the jaw. Externally it is connected with the ments" external lateral ligament, and in front the external pterygoid muscle is attached to it. Two sy- Two synovial membranes are present in the articulation— mem- one above, and one below the fibro-cartilage. The lower one is the smaller of the two; and, besides investing the interior of the capsule, it extends from this to the surface of the jaw. stylo- Another structure — the stylo-maxillary ligament —is lary liga-described as a uniting band to this articulation. This is a process of the deep cervical fascia, which extends from the styloid process to the hinder part of the ramus of the jaw. The piece of fascia here referred to, gives attachment to the stylo-glossus muscle, and has been seen to separate the paro- tid and submaxillary glands. Dissec- Dissection. — The condyle of the jaw is next to be dis- tlon' articulated, still keeping the external pterygoid muscle uncut, so as to see the fifth nerve beneath ; and in cutting through the ligaments the dissector must be careful of the auriculotemporal nerve close beneath. By drawing for- wards the pterygoid muscle, and removing some cellular membrane, the dissector will find the trunk and branches of the inferior maxillary nerve. All the four small muscular branches of the nerve should be traced to the trunk in the foramen ovale of the sphenoid bone ; its auriculotemporal trunk should be followed backwards with care behind the articulation; and the small chorda tympani should be found joining the posterior part of the gustatory nerve near the skull. The middle meningeal artery is to be sought beneathINTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 91 the external pterygoid ; and oftentimes the trunk of the in- ternal maxillary artery will be found beneath that muscle. The INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY is One of the terminal Internal branches of the external carotid, and takes a winding COUrse lary ar- beneath the lower jaw and the temporal muscle to the spheno- tery* maxillary fossa, where it ends in branches for the face, the interior of the nose, and the palate. At first the artery is directed inwards beneath the jaw, be- Course tween the bone and the internal lateral ligament of the joint, nections.. and crosses the dental nerve. Next, the vessel winds over the external pterygoid muscle, being placed between it and the temporal muscle. And, lastly, the artery enters the spheno- maxillary fossa between the processes of origin of the exter- nal pterygoid muscle. The trunk of the artery may be divided into three parts: one beneath the jaw, a second be- tween the muscles, and a third in the spheno-maxillary fossa. The course of the artery is sometimes beneath, in- varies stead of over the external pterygoid muscle. In such in- position, stances the artery gains the spheno-maxillary fossa by coming upwards between the origin of the muscle covering it. The branches of this artery are very numerous, and are Branch- classed into three sets, corresponding to the divisions made thiJe3 in the trunk of the artery : thus, one set arises beneath the jaw, another beneath the temporal muscle, and another in the spheno-maxillary fossa. Two branches, viz. the inferior dental and middle menin- Those geal, leave the internal maxillary artery, whilst it is in con- jaw, nection with the ramus of the jaw. 1. The inferior dental branch descends between the internal late- inferior ral ligament and the jaw, and enters the foramen on the inner surface of the ramus, along with the dental nerve, to supply the teeth. As this artery is about to enter the foramen it furnishes a small has a twig, mylo-hyoid branch, to the muscle of that name ; this is con- to myio- ducted by a groove on the inner surface of the bone, in company muscle; with a branch from the dental nerve, to the superficial surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle, where it anastomoses with the submental artery. 2. The middle or great meningeal artery is the largest branch, Middle and arises opposite the preceding one. It ascends beneath the ex- geal ar- ternal pterygoid muscle, crossing the internal lateral ligament, and tery enters the skull through the foramen spinosum of the sphenoidDISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. 92 ends in bone. When in the skull the artery ends in branches which sku11' ascend to the vertex of the head, and supply the bone and the but gives dura mater (p. 17.). Before the meningeal artery enters the skull, it furnishes the two following small branches, branch The tympanic branch enters the tympanum through the Glasse- panum" r^an fissure, and is distributed in that cavity, anastomosing with the other arterial branches of the part, to me- The small meningeal branch arises also near the skull, and passes mnges. through the foramen ovale with the inferior maxillary nerve ; it supplies the dura mater in the middle fossa of the skull. Branch- The branches from the second part of the artery, viz. second whilst it is between the muscles, are altogether muscular in paitare tkeir destination, and are named temporal, masseteric, buccal, and pterygoid. to the 1. The deep temporal arteries are two in number (anterior and muscle^ posterior), and each occupies the part of the temporal fossa indi- cated by its name. They ascend beneath the temporal muscle, and anastomose with the superficial temporal artery. The anterior also communicates, through the malar bone, with branches of the lachrymal artery. When the parent trunk has the unusual posi- tion beneath the pterygoid, the anterior branch is beneath that muscle, instead of over it. to the 2. The masseteric artery is directed outwards with the nerve of te?;Se the same name behind the tendon of the temporal muscle; and passing through the sigmoid notch, enters the under-surface of the masseter muscle. Its branches anastomose with the other branches to the muscle from the external carotid trunk to the 3. The buccal branch quits the artery near the upper jaw, and tor; in the unusual position of the artery it may perforate the fibres of the pterygoid; it then descends beneath the coronoid process with its companion nerve, and is distributed to the buccinator muscle and the side of the face, on which it joins the branches of the facial artery. to ptery- 4. The pterygoid branches are uncertain in their position; muscles, whether derived from the trunk or some of the branches of the internal maxillary, they enter the pterygoid muscles. Branch- Of the branches that arise from the artery when it is about third to enter, or has entered the spheno-maxillary fossa, only one, oniyone the superior dental, will be now described. The remainder seen. will be examined with the superior maxillary nerve and Meckel's ganglion (Section 14.); they are infra-orbital, superior palatine, pterygopalatine, spheno-palatine, and vidian.93 INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. 1. The superior or posterior dental branch arises near the upper Superior maxillary bone, and descends to the teeth with a tortuous course on the outer surface of that bone, along with a small branch of the superior maxillary nerve. For the most part its offsets enter the foramina in the bone, and supply the upper molar and bicuspid teeth, but some are furnished to the gums. A few branches reach the lining membrane of the antrum. The INTERNAL MAXILLARY VEIN receives the veins COr- Internal maxiiia- responding to the branches of the artery m the first two ry vein parts of its course. Those several veins of this region form begins in , . , , plexus a plexus —pterygoid, between the two pterygoid muscles, and (pter- in part between the temporal and external pterygoid muscles. This plexus communicates with the facial vein by a large branch (anterior internal maxillary), and with the cavernous sinus in the interior of the skull, by means of branches that pass through apertures in the base of the cranium. Escaping and ends from the plexus, the vein accompanies the artery to the nai'jugu- parotid gland, and there joins the superficial temporal vein, — the union of the two giving rise to a vessel that may enter either the external or the internal jugular vein (p. 32.). The INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE is the largest Of the three Inferior trunks arising from the Gasserian ganglion (p. 19.), and re- ry nerve sembles a spinal nerve in possessing fibrils that confer both motory and sensory properties on the parts to which they are distributed. The nerve leaves the skull by the foramen consists ovale in the sphenoid bone, and divides into two chief parts motor beneath the external pterygoid muscle: an anterior, small, sensory or muscular part; and a large, posterior, or sensory part. part* A. The smaller division receives nearly all the fibres of Muscu- ^ lar divi- the motor root of the nerve, and ends in branches to the si°n muscles of the jaw, viz. temporal, masseteric, and pterygoid, and to one muscle of the cheek, the buccinator. Should the supplies internal maxillary artery obstruct the view of the branches, branches it may be taken away. 1. The deep temporal branches are furnished to the temporal temporal muscle. Like the arteries, they are two in number, anterior and musele' posterior. From their origin these nerves course upwards along two in the outer surface of the skull, passing first beneath the external number» pterygoid, and, lastly, beneath the temporal muscle. The posterior branch is the smallest, and is often derived from posterior the masseteric nerve; it is near the back of the temporal fossa.94 DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. anterior. The anterior branch supplies the greater part of the muscle, and usually communicates with the buccal nerve. Masse- 2. The masseteric branch takes at first a backward direction ter'j above the external pterygoid muscle, and then a horizontal one, behind the temporal muscle and through the sigmoid notch, to the under surface of the masseter muscle. In the masseter the nerve can be followed to near the anterior border. As this branch passes by the articulation of the jaw it gives one or more twigs to that joint. Branch-, 3. The pterygoid branches are supplied to the muscles of that ptery- name. The branch or branches to the external pterygoid enter muscles. tne under-surface, but the nerve to the internal pterygoid is placed on the pharyngeal aspect of this muscle close to the skull: this last, which cannot now be seen, will be learnt in the dissection of the otic ganglion, Section 14. Buccina« 4. The buccal branch is longer than the others, and perforates the external pterygoid near its inner attachment; afterwards it is directed inwards, beneath the coronoid process and the temporal muscle, to the surface of the buccinator, where it ends in two ter- This minal branches. As the nerve perforates the pterygoid muscle ends°in filaments are given to the fleshy substance ; and after it has passed parts through the fibres, it furnishes a branch to the temporal muscle, which frequently joins the anterior deep temporal nerve. Some offsets are likewise distributed to the upper part of the buccinator muscle and to the mucous membrane lining it. upper The upper bi^anch resulting from the division reaches the upper and part of the buccinator muscle, and communicates with the facial nerve around the facial vein, lower. The lower bra7ich is in direction the continuation of the nerve. Its offsets are inclined towards the angle of the mouth, supplying the integument, together with the buccinator muscle and the lining mucous membrane. This branch is united freely with the facial nerve, and forms a kind of plexus, sensory B. The larger branch of the inferior maxillary nerve trunk of inferior ends in three trunks, auriculotemporal, dental, and gusta- lary. tory nerves. A few of the fibres of the small (motor) root a ?ew6ys of the fifth are applied to this trunk, and are conveyed by it tibres. to certain muscles, viz. tensor tympani, circumflexus palati, and mylo-hyoideus. Auricu- The auriculo-temporal nerve separates from the others p0o"raim" near the base of the skull, and oftentimes has two roots. Its division courge j0 t^e surface 0f the head is first backwards beneath lies be. tne external pterygoid muscle, as far as the inner part of the jawf1 articulation of the jaw; and lastly upwards with the tern-INFERIOR DENTAL NERVE. 95 poral artery in front of the ear, and beneath the parotid gland. In this course the nerve furnishes branches to the and sup. surrounding parts, viz. to the joint, the ear, and the parotid branch- gland, and communicates also with the facial nerve. Itses' ramifications on the head are described at page 8. Its branches in the part now dissected are the following: — a. Branches communicating with the facial nerve. — Two or more to join branches connect the auriculotemporal with the facial nerve, and facial; these usually surround the external carotid artery. b. Branches for the meatus auditorius and articulation.—From the to the point of union of the branches of the facial with the auriculotem- poral nerve, two offsets are directed to the interior of the auditory meatus, between the cartilage and the bone. The branch to the and joint articulation of the jaw is supplied from the trunk of the auriculo- ° JdW' temporal near the same spot, or from the branches of it to the meatus. c. The inferior auricular branch supplies the parts of the a branch external ear below the meatus auditorius. This branch also fur- ear, and nishes offsets along the internal maxillary artery, which communi- cate on it with the sympathetic nerve. d. Parotid branches. — These are small filaments that enter the parotid branch- substance of the gland. es. The inferior dental is the largest of the three trunks inferior into which the inferior maxillary nerve divides, and is directed to the canal in the lower jaw. At first the nerve is be- lies beneath the external pterygoid muscle, where it is ex- ptery- ternal in position to the gustatory; and is afterwards placed muscles, on the internal pterygoid, near the dental foramen, and on the internal lateral ligament. After the nerve enters the and sup- bone, it is continued forwards beneath the teeth to the for a- teeth; men in the side of the jaw, and ends at that spot by dividing into an incisor and a labial branch. Only one other mus- cular branch (mylo-hyoid) is supplied by the dental nerve. Its branches are: — a. The mylo-hyoid branch arises from the trunk of the nerve as also this is about to enter its foramen, and is eontthued along a groove to^yfo- on the inner aspect of the ramus of the jaw, to the cutaneous sur- ug.°lde" face of the mylo-hyoideus and the anterior belly of the digastric muscle. b. The dental branches arise in the bone and supply the fangs of Dental the molar and bicuspid teeth. If the bone is soft, the canal con- to grind- taining the nerve and artery may be laid open so as to expose ing these branches.96 DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. and cut- c. The incisor branch continues the trunk of the nerve onwards teeth, to the middle line, and furnishes offsets to the canine and incisor teeth, beneath which it lies. Branch d. The labial branch (mental ?) issues on the face beneath the iip!°wer depressor of the angle of the mouth. At first it communicates with the facial nerve, and gives branches to the muscle covering it, as well as to the orbicularis and the integuments. But the greater part of the nerve is directed upwards, beneath the depressor labii inferioris, and is distributed on the inner and outer surfaces of the lower lip. Dental The inferior dental arteryr, after entering the lower jaw with the nerve, has the same course and distribution. Thus it supplies dental branches to the molar and bicuspid teeth, has an and ends anteriorly in an incisor and a labial branch. incisor The incisor branch is continued to the symphysis of the jaw, beneath the canine and incisor teeth, which it supplies, and anas- tomoses with the artery of the opposite side. labial The labial branch, after it has left the bone, ramifies in the branch. s^ruc^ures COVering the lower jaw, and communicates with the branches of the facial artery. Gustato- The gustatory or lingual nerye is the remaining part ry nerve of the inferior maxillary, and is concealed at first, like the courses others, by the external pterygoid muscle. It is then inclined tongue; inwards over the internal pterygoid muscle, and under cover of the side of the jaw to the tongue. The remainder of this nerve will be seen in the dissection of the submaxillary region. no In this extent of the nerve there is not any branch distri- here, tributed to the parts around, but a communicating branch (chorda tympani) is received by it. but is The chorda tympani is a branch of the facial nerve which fc^7 is distributed to the tongue. The origin of this nerve, and tympam. course across the tympanum, to its position beneath the external pterygoid, are described in Section 14. After issuing from the tympanum, by an aperture near the Glas- serian fissure, this small nerve is inclined forwards to be applied to the gustatory nerve at an acute angle. At the point of junction some fibres communicate with the gustatory, but the greater part of the chorda tympani is conducted by that nerve to the lingualis muscle. An offset will be seen in the subsequent Section to be furnished from it to the submaxillary ganglion.SUBMAXILLARY REGION. 97 Section VII. SUBMAXILLARY REGION. The term submaxillary region is applied to the part between Parts oc- the jaw and the hyoid bone. In it will be found the small the re"8 muscles between the os hyoides and the jaw and tongue, the gl°n' vessels and nerves of the tongue, and the sublingual and submaxillary glands. Position. — In this dissection the position of the neck is Posi- the same as that for the examination of the anterior triangle. Dissection. — This part has been directed to be cleaned Dissec- with the triangular space ; but if any cellular membrane has been left on the submaxillary gland, or on the mylo-hyoid muscle, let it be taken away. The submaxillary gland lies below the jaw in the anterior situa- part of the space limited by that bone and the digastric muscle. Its shape is irregular, and the facial artery winds over the surface. The gland rests on the mylo-hyoideus, and con- and sends a process round the posterior or free border of that muscle. In front of it is the anterior belly of the digastric, and behind it is the stylo-maxillary ligament sepa- of sub- . n , . f\ . , .. maxilla- rating it from the parotid. Occupying tnat position, some- ry gland. what beneath the side of the jaw, the gland is very near the surface, being covered only by the integuments and platysma, and by the deep fascia. In structure, the submaxillary resembles the parotid gland (p. 32.), and its duct — duct of Wharton — extends beneath the mylo-hyoid muscle to the mouth. Dissection.—The mylo-hyoid muscle may be seen by de- Dissec- taching the anterior belly of the digastric from the jaw, and by dislodging, without injury, the submaxillary gland from its position under the jaw. The mylo-hyoid muscle is triangular in shape, with the Myio- base at the jaw and the apex at the hyoid bone, and unites hyoldeu,> along the middle line with its fellow of the opposite side. It arises arises from the ridge (mylo-hyoid) on the inner surface of Jaw™ the jaw as far back as the last molar tooth, and is inserted inserted into the lower part of the middle of the body of the hyoid hydd bone, as well as into a central tendinous band between the °ne° jaw and that bone. On the cutaneous surface are the H98 DISSECTION OF THE SUBMAXILLARY REGION. digastric muscle, the submaxillary gland, the facial artery with its submental branch, and the branch of nerve and artery to the muscle. Its fibres are frequently deficient near Parts the jaw, and allow the next muscle to appear. Only the around . 1 J it. posterior border is unattached, and round it a piece of the submaxillary gland winds. The parts in contact with the deep surface of the muscle will be perceived after the follow- ing dissection has been made. Dissec- Dissection,—To bring into view the muscles beneath the tion, to detach niylo-hyoid, and to trace the vessels and nerves to the sub- mylo*. hyoid. stance of the tongue, the student should first cut through the facial vessels on the jaw, and remove them with a super- ficial part of the submaxillary gland, but should be careful to leave the deep part of the gland that turns beneath the mylo-hyoideus. Next he should cut through the small branch of artery and nerve on the surface of the mylo- hyoideus ; and detaching that muscle from the jaw and its fellow, should throw it down to the os hyoides, but without injuring the genio-hyoid muscle beneath it. To see Afterwards the soft parts covering the lower jaw are to be muscles divided, and the bone is to be sawn through rather on the right side of its symphysis. The side of the jaw, which will then be loose (for the ramus of the bone has been previously cut), is to be raised to see the parts beneath ; but it is neither to be taken away, nor to be detached from the mucous mem- brane of the mouth. To enable the dissector to raise upwards sufficiently this loose piece of bone, let the apex of the tongue be drawn well out of the mouth over the upper teeth, and fastened in that position with a stitch; then let the scalpel be passed between the cut surfaces of the bone, for the purpose of dividing a strong band of the mucous membrane of the mouth, and let it be carried onwards along the middle line of the tongue to its tip. After these direc- tions have been followed the loose piece of the jaw can be easily turned upwards ; and it is to be fastened in that posi- tion with a stitch, and By means of a hook, the os hyoides may be drawn down, ncrves' and the muscular fibres made tense. All the cellular mem- brane is now to be removed, and in doing this the student is to take care of the Whartonian duct, of the hypo-glossal nerve and its branches that lie on the hyo-glossus muscle,99 HYO-GLOSSUS MUSCLE. also of the gustatory nerve, nearer the jaw, with its small ganglion close to the submaxillary gland. The student should endeavour to follow the small chorda tympani nerve along the gustatory to the tongue, and to define the offset from it to the submaxillary ganglion. The ranine vessels and the gustatory nerve are to be traced along the under part of the tongue. Parts beneath mylo-hyoideus.—The following is the posi- Pdr^be- tion of the objects brought into view by the steps of the myi?- previous dissection. Extending from the cornu of the hyoid bone to the side of the tongue is the hyo-glossus muscle, whose fibres are crossed superiorly by those of the stylo- glossus. On the hyo-glossus, from below upwards, are on side placed the hypo-glossal nerve, the Whartonian duct, and the gustatory nerve, the latter crossing the duct; and near the inner border of that muscle the two nerves are united by branches. Beneath the same muscle is the lingual artery with its vein. Above the hyo-glossus is the mucous mem- brane of the mouth, with the sublingual gland attached to it in front, and some fibres of the superior constrictor muscle covering it behind near the jaw. Between the chin and the os livc-ides, along the middle and J ° along line, is the genio-hyoid muscle ; and larger and deeper than }™*dle this is a fan-shaped muscle, the genio-hyo-glossus. Along the outer side of the last muscle lie the ranine vessels ; and a sub-lingual branch for the gland springs from the lingual artery at the inner border of the hyo-glossus. On the under aspect of the tongue, near the margin, is the gustatory nerve; and in the fibres of the genio-hyo-glossus, the hypo- glossal nerve. The hyo-glossus muscle is thin and somewhat of a Hyo- glossus square shape. The muscle arises from the lateral part of the body of the os hyoides (basio-glossus), from all the great cornu of the same bone (cerato-glossus), and separately from the small cornu (chondro-glossus). The two first parts form a thin sheet, and enter into the back part and side of the tongue*; they will be after seen to mingle with fibres of * For further detail respecting the anatomy of this and the other lin- gual muscles, reference is to be made to the dissection of the tongue, Section 15. 2DISSECTION OF THE SUBMAXILLARY REGION. 100 named the palato- and styloglossus. The parts in contact with from attach- one surface of the hyo-glossus have been already enume- rated ; and those beneath the muscle are portions of both the genio-hyo-glossus, and the middle constrictor, together with tact°with t^le ^Sual ar*ery. Along the anterior border is the genio- many hyo-glossus muscle, and beneath the posterior pass the lingual artery, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and the stylo-hyoid liga- ment. stylo- The stylo-glossus is a slender muscle, whose attachments giossus expressed by its name. Arising from the styloid process near the apex, and from the stylo-maxillary ligament, the comes to muscle is continued forwards to the side of the tongue. side of , tongue. Here it gives fibres to the dorsum, and, crossing the pre- ceding, turns to the under surface, and extends to the tip of the tongue. Beneath the jaw this muscle is crossed by the gustatory nerve. Genio- The genio-hyoid muscle arises from the lower of the two hvoideus tu];)ercjes on f.jie jnner aspect of the symphysis of the jaw, along and is inserted into the middle and lower part of the hyoid line of bone. Covered by the mylo-hyoideus, this muscle, rests on the genio-hyo-glossus. The inner border is close to its fellow of the opposite side, and the two are often united. Genio- The genio-hyo-glossus is the largest muscle of this giossus region ; it has a triangular form, the apex being at the jaw, and the base at the tongue, and is in contact along the middle line with the corresponding muscle of the other side. It takes origin from the upper tubercle behind the symphysis con- of the jaw. From this spot the fibres radiate, the posterior nected . with passing downwards to their insertion, by a membrane, into hyofd the body of the hyoid bone, the anterior forwards to the tip and ' of the tongue, and the intermediate to the whole length of tongue. ^e tongue, from root to point. Lying along the middle of Contigu- the tongue, it is in contact with its fellow, whilst the lower parts, border of the muscle corresponds to the genio-hyoideus, and the upper to the framum linguae. On its outer side are the ranine vessels and the hyo-glossus muscle, and the ninth nerve perforates the posterior fibres. Lingual The lingual artery is one of the anterior branches of the artery external carotid, and arises between the superior thyroid and ascends facial branches. At first it is directed inwards above the os tongue hyoides, but is afterwards inclined slightly upwards beneath101 LINGUAL ARTERY AND NERVE. H 3 the hyo-glossus to the under part of the tongue, and ends at beneath the anterior border of that muscle, in the sublingual and giossus, ranine branches. Before reaching the hyo-glossus, the artery is superficial, though it is crossed near that muscle by the ninth nerve, and by the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles. Beneath the hyo-glossus, the vessel rests on the middle con- strictor and genio~hyo-glossus muscles, and is situate below the level of the glossopharyngeal nerve. Its branches are its branches these I are — A small hyoid branch is distributed along the upper border of to hyoid the os hyoides, where it anastomoses with the one of the opposite ' . side, and with the hyoid branch of the superior thyroid artery. A branch to the dorsum of the tongue arises beneath the hyo- to back giossus muscle, and ascends to supply the substance of that organ, tongue; The fibres of the muscle must be divided to see it. The sublingual branch springs from the final division of the to the artery at the edge of the hyo-glossus, and is then directed outwards guai to the gland from which it takes its name. Some branches supply gland' the gums and the mylo-hyoid muscle, and one offset continues behind the incisor teeth to join a similar artery from the other side. The ranine branch is the terminal part of the lingual to the artery, and extends forwards along the outer side of the stance of genio-hyo-glossus to the tip of the tongue, where it ends by tongue* anastomosing with the artery of the other side of the body. Muscular offsets are furnished to the substance of the tongue. This artery corresponds to the fraenum linguae, near the tip This lies of the tongue, but lies close to. the muscular fibres, frsenum. The lingual vein commences both on the upper and under Lingual surfaces of the tongue. It accompanies the artery of the vem' same name, and ends in the internal jugular vein. The GUSTATORY Or LINGUAL NERVE has been followed in Lingual the examination of the pterygo-maxillary region to its passage between the ramus of the lower jaw and the internal ptery- goid muscle. In this dissection the nerve is seen to be along inclined forwards to the side of the tongue over the mucous tongul membrane of the mouth and the origin of the superior con- strictor muscle, and above the deep part of the submaxillary gland. Lastly, the nerve is directed across the Whartonian duct, and along the side to the apex of the tongue. In this region the gustatory nerve is separated altogether from theDISSECTION OF THE SUBMAXILLARY REGION. 102 cavity of the mouth by the layer of mucous membrane. gives branches Branches are furnished to the surrounding parts, thus: — to the Two or more branches connect it with the submaxillary ganglion, ganglion near the gland 0f that name> - to ninth Farther forwards branches descend on the hyo-glossus to unite nerve, >m a ^jn(j 0f piexTls with twigs of the hypo-glossal nerve. to ma- Other filaments are supplied to the mucous membrane of the mem- mouth, to the gums, and to the sublingual gland. tothe* Lastly the branches for the tongue ascend through the papilla. muscuiar substance, and are distributed to the conical and fungiform papillse. Sub. Submaxillary ganglion. — Closely connected with the rydgan? gustatory nerve is this little ganglion, which resembles the 8llon' other ganglia connected with the three trunks of the fifth nerve in the fact of communicating with sensory, motory, nature; an^ sympathetic nerves. It is a small reddish body, about the size of the lenticular ganglion, and is placed above the deep process of the submaxillary gland. From the upper part offsets proceed to connect it with other nerves, and from the lower part arise the branches that are distributed to the parts around. joins Connection with nerves — roots. — Two or three branches, in the toryf" form of loops, pass from the ganglion to the gustatory nerve. At and^ym- Posteri°r part, the ganglion is further joined by an offset from pathetic tne chorda tympani (of the facial nerve) which lies in contact with nerves. . the gustatory. And its sympathetic branch comes from the nerves around the facial artery. Branch- Branches.—From the lower part of the ganglion five or six branches descend to the substance of the submaxillary gland ; and from the anterior part other large filaments are furnished to the mucous membrane of the mouth and to the Whartonian duct. Ninth The hypo-glossal or ninth nerve, after crossing the side between of the neck and the anterior triangle (p. 80.), enters between andhy- the small muscles of the submaxillary region. Here the oid bone nerve }jeg on t]ie hyo-glossus muscle, being concealed by the mylo-hyoideus ; but at the inner border of the hyo-glossus it enters the fibres of the genio-hyo-glossus, and is continued is lost in along the middle line of the tongue to the apex. The tolfgue.^ position of the ninth nerve is in the centre of the tongue, whilst the gustatory lies near the margin: the ninth supplies branches to the muscular structure, and the gustatory ends chiefly in the papillse.SUBLINGUAL GLAND. 103 H 4 Branches. — On the hyo-glossus the ninth nerve furnishes its branches to the muscles of the submaxillary region, except the supply65 mylo-hyoid, viz. to the hyo-glossus, stylo-glossus, genio-hyoideus, muscles and genio-hyo-glossus. Further, some offsets ascend on the hyo- glossus to communicate with the gustatory nerve. Along the middle of the tongue the nerve sends upwards long filaments with the branches of the ranine artery, that supply the structure of the and the tongue, and communicate with the gustatory nerve. The duct of the submaxillary gland, or Wharton's duct, whar. issues from the deep part of the glandular mass that turns duct* round the border of the mylo-hyoid muscle. It is about two inches in length, and is directed upwards on the hyo-glossus muscle, and beneath the gustatory nerve, to open on the side opens by of the frasnum linguae, in the centre of an eminence. The lingua?, duct consist of three coats, an external thin and fibrous, a middle or muscular, and an internal or mucous; and its struc. opening in the mouth will be seen if a bristle be passed along ture* it. This is the only salivary duct that, according to Kolliker, possesses a stratum of the muscular contractile cells in its composition. The deep part of the submaxillary gland ex- tends, in some instances, even to the sublingual gland. The sublingual gland is somewhat of the shape of an subiin- almond, and the longest measurement, which is about one 1^ inch and a half, is directed backwards. It is situate beneath isbe. the anterior part of the tongue, in contact with the inner tongue, surface of the lower jaw, close to the symphysis. Separated from the cavity of the mouth by the mucous membrane, the gland is prolonged across the upper border of the genio-hyo- glossus muscle, so as to touch the one of the opposite side. The sublingual resembles the other salivary glands in its struc- composition (p. 32.). The ducts of the lobules (ductus Eivi- niani) are from eight to twenty in number, of which some °penin / ° J mouth. open beneath the tongue along a crescentic shaped fold of the mucous membrane, but others join the Whartonian duct; and one or more form a larger tube, that either joins that duct or opens near it.104 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. Section VIII. SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE AND VESSELS. superior The remaining trunk of the fifth nerve, viz. superior maxil- rv nerve lary, may be learnt conveniently after the dissection of the pterygo-maxillary and submaxillary regions. Dissec- Dissection. — The superior maxillary division of the fifth tlon* nerve, in its course to the face, occupies successively the skull, the spheno-maxillary fossa, and the infra-orbital canal; and to lay bare the whole extent of the nerve, it will be necessary to open the skull, the fossa, and the orbit. The skull and orbit are supposed to be opened ; but if the latter is not, see the dissection necessary for that step (p. 42.). in sphe- To trace the nerve in the spheno-maxillary fossa, the stu- iiiary " dent may make the following dissection : — The middle fossa lossa. o£ ^e kase Q£ skull is to be cut through from the inside with a chisel, from the foramen lacerum orbitale in front to the foramen spinosum behind, and the cut is to be made ex- ternal to the foramen rotundum and foramen ovale. The side of the skull is then to be sawn through vertically in front of the petrous-part of the temporal bone, so that the incision shall end at the posterior extremity of the cut made in the base. Afterwards, with a bone forceps or a saw the outer wall of the orbit is to be divided into the spheno-max- illary fissure. The piece of bone forming part of both the skull and orbit is now loose, and is to be removed with the temporal muscle. The nerve can be partly seen as it crosses the spheno-maxillary fossa; but to bring it more completely into view, some of the sphenoid bone bounding the fossa must be taken away, so as to leave only an osseous ring round the nerve at its exit from the skull. In the fat of the fossa the student is to seek the following offsets, — the orbital branch, branches to Meckel's ganglion, and dental branches to the upper jaw. in floor To follow onwards the nerve in the floor of the orbit, the contents of the cavity must be away, and the bony canal in which it lies must be opened even to the face. Near the front of the orbit the anterior dental branch is to be traced downwards for some distance in the bone. The infra-orbital vessels are to be prepared with the nerve.105 SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. The superior maxillary nerve commences in the Gas- uPPer d rnaxilla- serian ganglion (p. 19.), and leaves the cranium by the tora- ry nerve men rotundum. The course of the nerve is then almost Pacseses t0 straight to the face, along the orbital aspect of the superior maxilla. Outside the cranium the nerve is first placed across the spheno-maxillary fossa, and it afterwards enters the f]j™ueh infra-orbital canal. Issuing from the canal by the infra- orbital ° J canal, orbital foramen, the nerve is concealed by the elevator of the upper lip, and ends in branches to the eyelid, nose, and upper lip. It furnishes the following branches :— it ends 1. The orbital branch arises in the spheno-maxillary fossa, and J^J^- enters the orbit through the fissure of the same name; it divides are to into a malar and a temporal branch (see p. 52.). 2. The spheno-palatine branches descend from the nerve in the to the fossa, and supply the nose and palate: these are connected with palate, Meckel's ganglion, and will be dissected with it. 3. Two posterior dental branches leave the trunk of the nerve to the near the upper jaw. One is distributed to the gums and the buc- andhbuc- cinator muscle. The other enters a canal in the upper maxilla, clnator> and supplies branches to the molar teeth and the lining membrane of the antrum; it joins the anterior dental branch soon after entering the bone, and again near the teeth. 4. The anterior dental branch quits the trunk of the nerve in the t0 ante" ... rlor floor of the orbit, and descends to the anterior teeth in a special teeth. canal in front of the antrum. It is distributed by two branches. One (the inner) gives filaments to the incisor and canine teeth, and furnishes, moreover, one or two filaments to the lower meatus of the nose; the other (outer) ends by supplying the bicuspid teeth. 5. Infra-orbital or facial branches.—These are larger than the Infra- orbital other offsets of the nerve, and form its terminal ramifications, branches Some incline inwards to the side of the nose, and the rest descend to the upper lip. These branches are crossed near the orbit by join branches of the facial nerve, with which they communicate, the nerve, union forming the infra-orbital plexus (p. 41.). p?y the" a. The branches to the side of the nose supply the muscular and nose tegumentary structures. b. The branches to the upper lip are three or four in number, and up- and are distributed chiefly to the surfaces of the lip, though they Ptr 1P supply as well the labial glands and the muscles. 6. Before the nerve ends in the facial branches, it supplies a Branch small papebral branch to the lower eyelid; this is directed upwards ofeyelld" to the lid in a groove in the margin of the orbit. The infra-orbital artery is one of the terminal branches infra-106 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. orbital of the internal maxillary artery in the sphenomaxillary artery fogga^ an(j accompanjes the superior maxillary nerve. Taking the course of the nerve through the infra-orbital canal, the vessel appears in the face beneath the elevator muscle of the upper lip, and ends in branches, which are distributed, like those of the nerve, to the part of the face between the eye ends in and the mouth. In the face, its branches anastomose with the facial and buccal arteries. has a In the canal in the upper maxilla this artery furnishes branches branch , ,-1 ^ ., to orbit, to the orbit. and one Another branch, anterior dental, runs with the nerve of the same r?ornte" name, and supplies the incisor and canine teeth. This gives teeth, branches to the antrum of the maxilla, and near the teeth it anas- tomoses with the posterior dental artery, orbital ve*ni accompanying the artery, communicates in front with vein. the facial vein ; and behind, with a plexus of veins correspondin g to the branches of the internal maxillary artery in the spheno- maxillary fossa (p. 149). Section IX. DEEP VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE NECK. Parts in IN this section are included the deepest styloid muscle, the this sec- 1 J tion. internal carotid and ascending pharyngeal arteries, and the eighth, ninth, and sympathetic nerves. Position. Position. — The position of the part is to remain still the same, viz. the neck is to be fixed over a small block. Dissec- Dissection, — To see the remaining styloid muscle: the the sty- posterior belly of the digastric, and the stylo-hyoid muscle ryngeus. should be detached from their origin, and thrown down. At the same time, a filament of the facial nerve may be some- times seen to perforate the digastric muscle, and join the glossopharyngeal nerve beneath. The trunk of the external carotid artery is to be removed by cutting it through where the hypo-glossal nerve crosses it, and by cutting those branches that have been already examined, as well as, if it is necessary, the veins accompanying the arteries. In cleaning the surface of the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, the glosso-pha- ryngeal nerve and its branches may be prepared. The side of the jaw is still to remain turned upwards, as in the dissec- tion of the submaxillary region.INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 107 The stylo-pharyngeus muscle resembles the other sty- stylo- loid muscles in its elongated form. The fibres arise from geus.yn the root of the styloid process on the inner surface, and Origin, descend, between the superior and middle constrictors, to be inserted partly into the pharynx, and partly into the upper inser- border of the thyroid cartilage. The muscle lies below the 1°^- stylo-glossus, and between the carotid arteries; and the clr^tid. glossopharyngeal nerve turns over the lower part of its arteries- fleshy belly. The stylo-hyoid ligament is a fibrous band, that extends gtyio-^ from the tip of the styloid process to the small cornu of the gament. os hyoides. Its position is between the stylo glossus and lies by i , i i-i . i side of stylo-pharyngeus muscles, and over the internal carotid preced- artery, whilst the lower end is beneath the hyo-glossusm*' muscle. To the posterior border the middle constrictor muscle is attached. It is frequently cartilaginous or osseous in part of, or in all its extent. The INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY Supplies parts within the Internal head, viz. the brain and the orbit, and takes a circuitous artery, course through, and along the base of the skull, before it terminates in the brain. Dissection. — The part of the arterial trunk in the base of some the skull, and its offset to the orbit, have been already exa- already mined, whilst the part in the neck, and in the temporal bone remains to be dissected. Its branches to the brain are de- scribed with that part. For the display of the cervical part of the artery there is D'ssec- . . 5 . , . . tion of now but little dissection required, since by detaching the carotid . . . in the styloid process at its root, and throwing it with its attached neck; muscles to the middle line, the internal carotid artery and jugular vein may be followed upwards to the skull. Only a dense fascia now conceals them, which is to be taken away carefully, so that the branches of the eighth and ninth nerves, that are in contact with the vessels near the base of the skull, may not be injured. In the fascia, and superficial to the artery, are the pharyngeal branch of the vagus (near the skull), and the glossopharyngeal nerve and its branches ; whilst the superior laryngeal branch of the vagus is beneath the artery. Between the vein and artery, near the skull, are the vagus, hypo-glossal, and sympathetic nerves; and crossing108 DISSECTION^OF THE NECK. backwards, over or under the vein, the spinal accessory nerve. External to the position of the vessels will be found a loop of the first and second cervical nerves, over the transverse pro- cess of the atlas, which communicates with the large ganglion of the sympathetic beneath the artery, and with the eighth and ninth nerves. Ascending to the cranium, on the inner side of the carotid, is the ascending pharyngeal artery, in the To open the carotid canal in the temporal bone, and to bone.°ral follow the contained artery into the cranium, make a cut down the side of the skull in the following manner: — the saw being placed behind the mastoid process, cut forwards to the foramen spinosum'in the wing of the sphenoid bone (to which spot the side of the skull has been already taken away), and let the instrument be directed through the stylo- mastoid foramen and the root of the styloid process, but rather external to the jugular foramen and the carotid canal. When the piece of detached bone has been taken away, the carotid canal may be opened with the bone forceps. In dissecting the artery in the canal, large reddish branches of the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic will be found on it; and with care two small filaments may be re- cognised, one from Jacobson's nerve, joining the sympathetic at the posterior part of the canal; the other from the vidian nerve, at the front of the canal. Piece of On the piece of bone that is cut off, the dissector may numPo"b- prepare very readily the tympanum with its membrane, chain of bones, and chorda tympani nerve, intem&i The carotid artery springs from the bifurcation of the enters'1 conimon carotid trunk, and extends from the upper border of the skuii. the thyroid cartilage to the base of the skull, then through the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and lastly along the base of the skull to the anterior clihoid process, where it its ends in branches for the brain. This winding course of the fimrhe 1S artery may be divided into three parts:—-one part in the neck, another in the temporal bone, and a third inside the skull. through Cervical part.—In the neck the artery ascends almost the neck, verticaUy fr0m its origin to the carotid canal, and is in con- tact with the pharynx on its inner side. Its depth from the surface varies as in the external carotid ; and the line of the digastric muscle may be taken as the index of this difference.INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN. 109 Thus, below that muscle, the internal carotid is superficial in where it the anterior triangular space, being covered only by the fidafbe- common teguments, fascia, and platysma, and is on the same °w level as the external carotid, though outside it. But, above but deep above; that muscle, the vessel is placed deeply beneath the external carotid artery and the parotid gland, and is crossed by the styloid process and the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, by the glosso-pharyngeal nerve and its branches, and by the pha- rvngeal branch of the vagus nerve. Whilst in the neck the resting ■, . , . . . . 011 long- internal carotid lies on the rectus capitis anticus major in us- uscoiii, cle, which separates it from the vertebras, also on the supe- rior laryngeal and sympathetic nerves. Accompanying the with m- artery is the internal jugular vein, which is placed on the jugular outer side, and between the two vessels is the pneumo-gastric vagus.nd nerve. This part of the artery remains much the same in size to the end, and usually does not furnish any branch. Part in the temporal bone. — In the carotid canal the tor- second tuous course of the vessel commences. Following the wind- temporal ing of its canal, the artery first ascends in front of the cochlea and tympanum; next it is directed forwards almost horizontally; and lastly turns upwards into the skull opposite the foramen lacerum medium (basis cranii.) The ascending Sur- N ' 0 rounded branches of the sympathetic nerve surround the carotid by sym- J 1 pathetic. artery in the temporal bone. The cranial part of the artery is described with the base Third of the skull (see p. 21.). Peculiarities in the carotid. — The length of the internal carotid ^ecu: vessel varies in a given number of bodies, both from difference in in the length of the neck, and in the point of division of the common length' carotid trunk. The course of the vessel may be very tortuous, direc- instead of being straight. It has been already said (p. 79.), that and ori_ the internal carotid may arise sometimes from the arch of the sin- aorta. Further, this vessel may be absent from the neck: in such Absence cases the common carotid may take its place, and give the usual offsets of the external carotid. In one case (Quain) where the artery was deficient in the neck, two branches of the internal maxillary entered the skull, and formed by their union a substi- tute for it in the cranium. The INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN is Continuous With the Internal lateral sinus of the skull, and extends from the foramen veSai lacerum jugulare to the sterno-clavicular articulation. At joins in- 1 i r* 1 • feriorly the lower part 01 the neck it has been seen to join the sub- subcia-DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 110 clavian, to form the innominate vein (p. 79.). As far as the thyroid cartilage this vein accompanies the internal carotid, is on but below that point the common carotid artery ; and it is outside 1 J t?dsar°" P*ace(^ on tne outer side °f each.* Its contiguity to the artery is not equally close in all its extent, for near the skull there is a small interval between them, containing the eighth and ninth nerves, and at the lower part of the neck there is a still larger intervening space, in which the pneumogastric nerve is found. The size of the vein remains much the and is same till near the os hyoides, where it is suddenly increased branches by the addition of those branches of the head and neck, cor- below os hyoi- responding to the branches of the external carotid artery, that do not join the external jugular vein. The following branches open into the internal jugular, viz. the facial, lingual, thyroid (superior), occipital, and pharyngeal; and at the lower part of the neck it receives the middle thyroid vein. itg°pha" ascen^n9 pharyngeal artery is a long slender branch ryngeai of the external carotid, which arises near the commencement artery of that vessel. Directed upwards on the spinal column, be- tween the internal, carotid and the pharynx, the artery be- comes tortuous near the skull, and divides into branches for ends the pharynx and the cranium. In the neck the artery gives skull, in some small branches to the surrounding parts, viz. the mus- cles on the vertebrae, the nerves, and the lymphatic glands ; and other branches anastomose with the ascending cervical artery. a branch The meningeal branch enters the cranium through the foramen rSnges, lacerum medium (basis cranii), and is distributed to the meninges of the middle fossa of the skull. and an- The pharyngeal branch, which is larger than the preceding, pharynx turns inwards to the pharynx, and dividing into several twigs, palate, supplies the muscular structure of the pharynx, the soft palate, and the Eustachian tube. The size of the palatine branch depends upon that of the inferior palatine branch of the facial artery: it courses above the upper constrictor, and ends in branches for the front and back of the soft palate, that lie beneath the mucous membrane. * Sometimes the term internal cephalic is applied to the vein between the skull and the hyoid bone, whilst that of internal jugular is given to the part below that bone, and the junction.of the large branches at that spot.EIGHTH CRANIAL NERVE. Ill The vein corresponding to the pharyngeal artery receives its vein, branches from the cranium and the pharynx, and ends in the internal jugular vein. Dissection of the eighth nerve.—By the time the student Direc- has arrived at this stage of the dissection, it will not be concern- possible for him to trace the very minute filaments of the e?fnth nerve. eighth nerve in the foramen lacerum of the skull. The student is therefore recommended to omit, for the present, all the paragraphs marked with an asterisk. Afterwards, if a fresh piece of the skull can be obtained, in which the nerves have been hardened by spirit, and the bone softened by acid, he may return to the examination of the parts that are now passed over. * In the foramen lacerum. — Supposing the dissection of Dissec- the internal carotid to be made as it is described at page 108., opento let the student cut across with care the jugular vein near the Scerum. skull, and the internal carotid, if it is necessary. Let him then remove, bit by bit, with the bone forceps, or with a scalpel if the part has been softened, the ring of bone that bounds externally the jugular foramen, proceeding as far forwards as the crest of bone between the foramen and the aperture of the carotid canal. Between the ring of bone and the coat of the jugular vein, is the small auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric nerve, which is directed backwards to a foramen near the styloid process. * First trace the pneumo-gastric and spinal accessory Follow nerves through the canal, by opening the fibrous sheath that gSic°~ surrounds them. On the pneumo-gastric is a small ganglion, nafac-" from which filaments are to be sought passing to the smaller andtheir portion of the spinal accessory nerve, and to the ascending est"0*1" branch of the upper cervical ganglion of the sympathetic ; the auricular branch, before referred to, also takes origin from this ganglion. Two parts, large and small, of the spinal accessory nerve should be defined: the former is to be shown joining the ganglion of the vagus, and then applying itself to the trunk of that nerve. A communication also exists between the two parts of the spinal accessory. * Next follow the glosso-pharyngeal nerve through the after- foramen, and take away any bone that overhangs it. This giosso'- nerve presents two'ganglia, as it passes from the skull: one geai5" (jugular), that is scarcely to be perceived, near the upper112 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. part of the tube of membrane that contains it; the other, much larger (petrous), is placed at the lower border of the and its petrous portion of the temporal bone. From the lower one, branch- a filament of communication with the sympathetic in the neck; also Jacobson's nerve, that enters an aperture in, or on one side of tlie crest of bone between the jugular foramen and the carotid canal. Sometimes there will exist a filament from the lower ganglion to join the auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric, and another to end in the upper ganglion of the pneumo-gastric nerve. Dissec- Below the foramen of exit from the skull, the eighth nerve the has been sufficiently denuded, by the dissection of the in- in the ternal carotid, to examine its branches in the neck, with the exception of the inferior laryngeal nerve. But the connec- tions between the eighth, ninth, sympathetic, and first two spinal nerves should be traced out near the skull. Taking the pneumo-gastric nerve, it will be found to swell into a large oval body (lower ganglion), which is closely united with the ninth, and is connected by branches with the other nerves. The ninth nerve communicates also with the sym- pathetic and the spinal nerves. Lastly the student should trace the recurrent branch of the vagus from the lower part of the neck to the larynx. Eighth The eighth cranial nerve consists of three distinct nerve trunks, viz. glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric, and spinal accessory, which leave the cranium by the foramen lacerum jugulare (p. 21.). Outside the skull these nerves take dif- consists ferent directions according to their destination; thus the three' glosso-pharyngeal is inclined inwards to the tongue and ing- pharynx; the spinal accessory passes backwards to the sterno-mastoid and trapezius 'muscles; and the pneumo- gastric nerve descends to the thorax and the abdomen, ciosso- The glosso-pharyngeal nerve is the smallest of the pharyn- ^ree trunks, and in the jugular foramen is placed somewhat nerve? -n fron^. 0£ other two ; it lies in a groove in the lower has two border of' the petrous part of the temporal bone. In the fnforS aperture of exit, the nerve is marked by two ganglionic lacerum swellings, the upper one being the jugular, and the lower one the petrous ganglion, itsupper Ganglia. — The jugular ganglion (gang, superius) is ofGLOSSOPHARYNGEAL NERVE. 113 very small size, and is situate at the upper part of the osseous groove that contains the nerve. It occupies the outer part of the glosso-pharyngeal trunk, and includes only some fibres of the nerve. The petrosal ganglion (gang, inferius) is much and larger than the preceding, and encloses all the fibrils of the gan- nerve. This ganglion is placed in a hollow in the lower border of the temporal bone, and from it arise the branches that unite the glosso-pharyngeal with the other nerves. After the nerve has quitted the foramen, it comes forwards in the between the jugular vein and the carotid artery, and crossing inwards over the artery, reaches the lower border of the stylo-pharyngeus muscle. At this spot, the nerve becomes ^u^ses almost transverse in direction in its course to the pha- tongue and pha- rynx ; it passes over the stylo-pharyngeus, and forms an arch, rynx. across the side of the neck (p. 65.), above the superior laryn- geal nerve. Finally the nerve enters beneath the hyo-glossus muscle, and ends in branches to the pharynx, the tongue, and the tonsil. The branches of the glosso-pharyngeal may be classed Branch- into those connecting it with other nerves at the base of the join skull, and those that are distributed in the neck. Connecting Branches. — These arise chiefly from the pe- with trosal ganglion, and in this set is the tympanic nerve. viz. 1. * A filament ascends from the sympathetic nerve in the neck sympa- to join the petrosal ganglion; and sometimes there is a filament andva- given from this ganglion to the auricular branch of the vagus, as sus' well as to the upper ganglion of that nerve. 2. * The tympanic branch (nerve of Jacobson) enters the aper- facial ture in the ridge of bone between the jugular and the carotid pathSic" foramen, and ascends by a special canal to the inner wall of the tympanum, where it ends in branches. Its distribution is given with the anatomy of the tympanum of the ear. 3. Connecting branch of the facial nerve. — This pierces the and digastric muscle, and joins the trunk of the glosso-pharyngeal, SaiV*" below the petrosal ganglion: it is not always present. Branches for Distribution. — In the neck the branches are distri- furnished chiefly to the tongue and the pharynx, but they are also united with other nerves. 1. Carotid branches surround the artery of that name, and com- carotid municate on it with the pharyngeal branch of the vagus, and with artery' the sympathetic nerve.114 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. in fora men la- stylo- 2. Some muscular branches enter the stylo-pharyngeus, whilst geus^n" the nerve is in contact with it. pharynx 3. Branches to the pharynx form the pharyngeal plexus by and pha- . . . , n ,i i n« • i ryngeal uniting with nerves irom the sympathetic and vagus. JLnis plexus plexus, .g 0pp0g^e middle constrictor, and branches are furnished by it to the muscles, and to the pharyngeal mucous membrane be- tween the tongue and the hyoid bone, the ton- 4^ rpke f0nsiintic branches supply the tonsil and the arches of the soft palate. On the former they form a kind of plexus — circulus tonsillaris. and the £# Zingual branches. — The terminal branches of the nerve sup- tongue. ° r ply the root, and the posterior part of the tongue, as well as the lateral surface. The distribution of these is described with the tongue (Section 15.). vagus The pneumo-gastric nerve (vagus nerve) is the largest nerve . . of the three trunks of the eighth cranial nerve, and occupies the same sheath of dura mater as the spinal accessory. In cerum, the foramen it has a distinct ganglion (gang, of the root), to which the small part of the spinal accessory nerve is con- nected. and in When the nerve has escaped from the foramen, it receives the neck, m A the small part of the spinal accessory, and swells into a large ganglion (gang, of the trunk). Here the nerve lies between the carotid artery and the jugular vein, and communicates with the several nerves at this part. To reach the thorax, courses the vagus descends, almost vertically, between the internal to the ° . J thorax, jugular vein and the internal and common carotid arteries, and enters that cavity, on the right side, by crossing over the subclavian artery. ganglion Ganglia. — The ganglion of the root (gang, superius) is of ramen a greyisft colour, and in texture is like the ganglion on the posterior root of the spinal nerves. The small branches of the vagus in the foramen lacerum come from this ganglion. The ganglion of the trunk (gang, inferius) is cylindrical in another form, is reddish in colour, and is nearly an inch in length. below. ' J *. to It communicates with the hypo-glossal, spinal, and sympa- thetic nerves. All the fibres of the trunk of the nerve are not surrounded by the ganglionic substance, for those derived from the spinal accessory nerve pass by the ganglion without being inclosed in it. Branch- The same arrangement may be made of the branches of the pneumo-gastric in the neck, as was adopted for thePNEUMO-GASTEIC NERVE. 115 branches of the glossopharyngeal, viz. into those uniting it with other nerves, and those that are distributed to the parts around. Connectinq Branches.—Branches of communication arise to unite o With from both the ganglion of the root and that of the trunk of others; the nerve. * a. From the ganglion of the root. — One or two short filaments spinal unite this ganglion with the spinal accessory nerve. Another fila- ry, sym- ment of the sympathetic nerve in the neck enters the ganglion; gfosso-C and occasionally there is a filament to join the lower (petrosal) |eai"fn" ganglion of the glossopharyngeal nerve. Its chief branch is the following. * The auricular hranch traverses the substance of the temporal auricular bone, and reaches the outer ear, on which it is distributed. This ' little nerve arises from the ganglion, and crosses the jugular fossa to enter an aperture near the root of the styloid process. Its farther course to the outer ear will be described with the anatomy of the ear. * b. From the ganglion of the trunk. — This ganglion is connected With intimately with the hypo-glossal nerve; and other branches pass gy^Ja- between it and the ganglion of the sympathetic, and between it ^f^a' and the loop of the first two cervical nerves. nerves. Branches for Distribution, — These branches arise from Branch - the inner side of the nerve, and are directed to the middle supply line, to supply the pharynx, the larynx, and the heart. 1. The pharyngeal branch is an offset from the upper part of the pharynx ganglion of the trunk of the pneumo-gastric, which terminates, as the name expresses, in the pharynx. The nerve is directed in- and join wards over the internal carotid artery, and joins the branches of pharyn- the glosso-pharyngeal nerve on that vessel. Finally it courses to §eal the side of the middle constrictor muscle, and communicates with branches of the glosso-pharyngeal, superior laryngeal, and sympa- and pha- thetic nerves, to form the pharyngeal plexus of the same side. plexus.1 2. The superior laryngeal nerve is much larger than the pre- To enter ceding branch, and arises from the middle of the ganglion of the larynX) trunk of the vagus. From this spot the nerve inclines obliquely inwards, beneath the internal carotid artery, and reaches the larynx opposite the interval between the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage. The nerve then perforates the thyro-hyoid membrane, and is distributed to the mucous membrane of the larynx. (See "Larynx.") In the neck it furnishes branches to and sup- the thyroid body, and to one laryngeal muscle. anY* The external laryngeal branch arises in the neck, beneath the a branch internal carotid artery. Taking a course similar to that of the i°aUryndxe i 2DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 116 superior laryngeal nerve, but below it, this branch reaches the side thyroid" °^ ^e larynx> and gives offsets to the pharyngeal plexus. Finally, and thy- the nerve is continued beneath the sterno-thyroideus, to supply body. the crico-thyroid muscle and the thyroid body. Near its origin this branch communicates with the sympathetic nerve (superficial cardiac branch). Branch- 3. Cardiac branches. — Some small cardiac nerves arise from the heart pneumo-gastric at the upper part of the neck, and join branches and^ow (car(^ac) °ftne sympathetic. At the lower part of the neck, on er part of each side, there is a single cardiac nerve; that of the right side enters the chest, and joins one of the deep nerves of the heart from the sympathetic; and on the left side, the corresponding nerve terminates in the superficial cardiac plexus of the thorax. Another 4. The inferior laryngeal or recurrent nerve of the right side branch , . J U b . . . _ , * . & tola- leaves the pneumo-gastric trunk opposite the subclavian artery, rynx' and winding round that vessel, takes an upward course in the ends neck to the larynx. To reach its destination, the nerve ascends cies in" beneath the common carotid and inferior thyroid arteries, and interior, ketween the trachea and the oesophagus. At the larynx it enters beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and it will be It has afterwards followed into the interior. The following branches arise from it: — branches a. Some cardiac branches leave the nerve as it turns round the ' subclavian artery; these enter the thorax, and join the cardiac nerves of the sympathetic, to tra- b. Muscular branches spring from the recurrent nerve whilst it and ceso- lies between the trachea and the oesophagus, and are distributed to phagus. those tubes. Near the larynx also some filaments are fur- nished to the inferior constrictor muscle. Left re. On the left side of the body the recurrent nerve arises in the nerve, thorax, opposite the arch of the aorta, around which it turns. In the neck its position is between the trachea and the oesophagus, as on the right side. spinal The spinal accessory nerve passes through the foramen acces- sory in lacerum witb the pneumo-gastric, but is not marked by any has two ganglion while in the foramen. This nerve is constructed of parts two parts, viz. accessory to the vagus, and spinal, which have a different origin and distribution. See Origin of the cranial nerves. acces- The part accessor?/ to the vagus is the smaller of the two, vagus° and finally blends with the vagus beyond the skull. In the men. in fora. foramen lacerum it lies close to the vagus ; and here it joins the upper ganglion of that nerve by one or two filaments. Having passed through the foramen, this part is applied117 HYPO-GLOSSAL NERVE. to the vagus; it is then continued over the lower ganglion fora- of the nerve, and blends with the trunk of the vagus only beyond the ganglion. It gives offsets to join the pharyngeal how and upper laryngeal branches of the vagus ; and according to Bendz, offsets from it may be traced into many other branches of the same nerve. The spinal part is much larger, is round and cord-like, Spinal and is connected with the smaller piece, whilst it is passing Foramen, through the foramen lacerum. Beyond the foramen the nerve takes a backward course in the through the sterno-mastoid muscle, and across the side of the crosses neck to the trapezius muscle. At first it is somewhat con- [°ape_ cealed by the jugular vein, but it then passes either over or Z1US> under that vein, to take the course above indicated. The connections and distribution of the nerve beyond the sterno- mastoideus have been already examined. This nerve furnishes muscular offsets to the sterno-mas- supplies toideus and the trapezius. The hypo-glossal or ninth nerve, after passing from Ninth the cranium by the anterior condyloid foramen, lies deeply neive beneath the internal carotid artery and the jugular vein. It then comes forwards between the vein and the artery, turn- ing round the outer side of the vagus, to which it is inti- mately united. The nerve next descends in the neck, and crosses J # ... inwards becomes superficial below the digastric muscle, in the anterior to r ° 7 tongue. triangular space. From this spot the nerve is directed in- wards to the tongue and its muscles. The branches of this nerve are furnished to the muscles Branch- on the fore part of the windpipe, and to the muscular sub- withm i stance of the tongue ; but there are also some branches con- necting it with other nerves near the skull. Connecting branches.—ISTear the skull the hypo-glossal is con- theva- nected by branches with the vagus nerve, and the two are almost guS' inseparably united. Rather lower down, the nerve has connecting branches with the sympa- sympathetic, and with the loop of the first two spinal nerves. and spi- The branches for distribution to parts around are included and'sup. in the description of the dissections of the neck, submaxillary mUesscles. region, and tongue. Dissection. — The small rectus capitis lateralis muscle, pissec- between the transverse process of the atlas and the base of rectus lateralis. I 3118 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. the skull, is now to be more completely cleaned. At its inner border the anterior branch of the first cervical nerve, which joins in the loop of the atlas, is to be found. Rectus The rectus capitis lateralis is a small thin muscle, is first which is analogous to an inter-transverse muscle. It arises inter trans verse muscle. trans. from the anterior root, and the tip of the transverse process of the atlas, and is inserted into the jugular eminence of the occipital bone, close behind the foramen lacerum. On the anterior surface rests the jugular vein; and the posterior is in contact with the vertebral artery. To the inner side is the anterior branch of the first cervical nerve. Dissec- Dissection.—For the purpose of tracing backwards the tion of . first anterior branch of the first cervical nerve to its ganglion, nerve. # m ° ° divide the rectus lateralis muscle, observing the branch of nerve to it; then cut off the end of the transverse process of the atlas, and remove the vertebral artery, so as to bring into view the nerve as it lies on the first vertebra, sub. The anterior division of the first, or sub-occipital nerve, occipital . n nerve is a slender nerve that arises from the common trunk on the lies on arch of the atlas. From that origin it is directed forwards atlas on the atlas, beneath the vertebral artery, to the inner side of the rectus lateralis. Here the nerve bends down in front of the transverse process, and forms a loop by uniting with forms a the second cervical nerve. Branches pass between this loop with and the vagus, ninth, and sympathetic nerves. As the nerve passes forwards, it supplies the rectus lateralis muscle, and Branch- sends a filament along the side of the vertebral artery. es. Sympa- Sympathetic Nerve. — In the neck, the sympathetic thetic . . , nerve in nerve consists, on each side, of a gangliated cord, which lies close to the vertebral column, and is continuous with the has three similar cord in the thorax. On this part of the nerve are ganglia, ^ree ganglia ; one near the skull, another on the neck of the first rib, and a third midway between the two ; these are named respectively superior, inferior, and middle ganglion. From the ganglia proceed some branches, that are connected with the spinal and most of the cranial nerves, and other branches that are distributed to viscera, and joins Besides the ganglia above mentioned, there are other on'rfih ganglionic masses, in the head and neck, in connection with nerve* the three trunks of the fifth nerve.GANGLION OF THE SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 119 i 4 Dissection, — To dissect the branches of the sympathetic Dissec- nerve requires greater care than is necessary in following the white-fibred nerves, for they are softer, more easily torn, and upper generally of smaller size. In the neck the ganglia and their g^on. branches are already partly prepared, and will therefore require only the following dissection to bring them into view: — the carotid artery and jugular vein having been already cut through, the upper ganglion will be seen by raising the trunks of the eighth and ninth nerves, and cutting through the branches that unite these to the loop of the atlas. If it is thought necessary, the two cranial nerves may be cut across close to the skull. The several branches of the ganglion should be traced upwards, inwards, and out- wards. The dissector has already seen the middle ganglion on or Middle near the inferior thyroid artery, and has now to trace out its branches. To obtain a view of the inferior ganglion, the greater part and in- of the first rib is to be taken away, and a part of the sub- gan- clavian artery is to be removed, without, however, destroy- ing the fine nerves that pass over it. Of course the clavicle is supposed not to be in position. The ganglion is found on the neck of the first rib ; its branches are large, and easily followed to the vertebral artery, the spinal nerves, and the thorax. The SUPERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION is the largest of the Superior cervical ganglia, and is of a reddish grey colour. Of a fusi- filonis form shape, it is of the length of two cervical vertebrae skull, (second and third), and is placed on the rectus capitis anti- cus maior muscle, beneath the carotid artery and the cranial beneath . J carotid. nerves in connection with it. Branches either connect the ganglion with other nerves, or are distributed to the blood- vessels, the pharynx, and the heart. Connecting branches unite the sympathetic with both the Branch- . , , , . . J r es join it spinal and the cranial nerves. With the spinal nerves. — The four highest spinal nerves have with branches of communication with the upper ganglion of the syni- nerves, pathetic; but the branch to the fourth spinal nerve may come from the cord connecting the upper ganglion to the next. With the cranial nerves.—Near the skull the trunks of the eighth with ^ (its lower ganglion) and ninth nerves are joined by branches ofDISSECTION OF THE NECK. 120 the sympathetic. In the foramen lacerum also, both the petrosal outside ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal and the ganglion of the root of skull, vagUS receive small filaments, one to each, from an ascending branch of the ganglion, and with Other communications are formed with cranial nerves by means the"6 in of the offset continued upwards from the ganglion into the carotid skulL canal. Branch. Branches for Distribution. — This set of branches is more sent numerous than the preceding, and the nerves are of larger size. to ex- 1. Branches for bloodvessels (nervi molles). These nerves pro- carotid, ceed to the external carotid artery, and ramify on its branches, forming plexuses on the vessels, which have the same name as the arteries they surround. Some small ganglia are occasionally found forming on these ramifying branches. By means of the plexus on the facial and artery the submaxillary ganglion receives its branch of the sym- gangiia, pa^e^jc . an(j through the plexus on the internal maxillary artery the otic ganglion is supplied with a similar branch. to inter- With these nerves may be described another offset of the man- ual ca- . rotid," glion to the internal carotid artery and its branches. This offset ascends from the upper part of the ganglion, of which it appears to be a continuation. Near the skull it divides into two parts, that enter the carotid canal with the artery, one on each side of it, and which are continued, forming secondary plexuses on the ophthalmic and iiialCra* cerebral branches, to the eyeball and the meninges of the brain. nerves; jn ^ carotid canal communications are formed with the tympanic nerve (p. 113.) and with the spheno-palatine ganglion (p. 147.); the former being placed near the lower, and the latter near the upper opening of the canal. The communications and plexuses that these nerves form in their course to the base of the brain are described at p. 22. to pha- 2. The pharyngeal nerves pass inwards to the side of the pharynx, plexus1- wnere they join in the pharyngeal plexus with the other pharyn- geal branches of the eighth cranial nerve, to 3. Cardiac nerves. — The cardiac nerves enter the thorax piex-ac to join in the cardiac plexuses of the heart. There are three uses. cardiac nerves on each side, viz. superior, middle, and infe- rior, each taking its name from the ganglion of which it is an offset. One The superior or superficial cardiac nerve of the right side con- deep610 tinues through the neck, behind the sheath of the carotid vessels, plexus an(] enters the thorax beneath, or in front of the subclavian artery. In some bodies this nerve ends in the neck by joining one of the joins other cardiac nerves. In the neck the nerve is connected with the121 GANGLION OF THE SYMPATHETIC NERVE. cardiac branch of the vagus, with the external laryngeal, and with others in the recurrent nerve. neck* The MIDDLE CERVICAL GANGLION (gang, thyroideum) is of Middle small size, and is situate opposite the fifth cervical vertebra, f&on.; usually on or near the inferior thyroid artery. It is of a situa- roundish shape, and lies beneath the great cervical vessels. Its branches are the following: —- Connecting branches with the spinal nerves pass outwards, and Is joined sink between the borders of the longus colli and anterior scalenus nerves",3 to join the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. Branches for distribution.— These consist of nerves to the and gives thyroid body, together with the middle cardiac nerve. offsets, 1. The thyroid branches ramify around the inferior thyroid thyroid artery, and end in the thyroid body ; they join the external laryn- j!gancil" geal and recurrent laryngeal nerves. 2. The middle or great cardiac nerve descends to the thorax and a across the subclavian artery; its termination in the cardiac plexus nerve, will be seen in the chest. In the neck it communicates with the upper cardiac and recurrent laryngeal nerves. The INFERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION is irregular in Shape, Inferior and occupies the interval between the first rib and the trans- gansllon verse process of the last cervical vertebra, its position being internal to the superior intercostal artery. Oftentimes it is on extends, in front of the neck of the rib, to join the first swel- nrstrio. ling of the knotted cord in the thorax. One or two filaments around the trunk of the subclavian artery likewise connect these ganglia, and supply filaments to that bloodvessel. The Brancn- . . . es to branches of this ganglion are very similar to those of the biood- other ganglia. Connecting branches join the last two cervical nerves. Other and nerves accompany the vertebral artery in its canal, forming a nerves plexus — vertebral, around it, and communicate with the spinal nerves as high as the fourth. Only one branch for distribution, the inferior cardiac nerve, and one issues from the lower ganglion. It lies beneath the subclavian cardfac° artery, where it joins the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and then Plexus- enters the thorax to terminate in the deep cardiac plexus behind the arch of the aorta. Directions.—All the parts, on the right half of the head and neck, are to be preserved during the examination of those on the left half.DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 122 Section X. DISSECTION OF THE LEFT SIDE OF THE NECK. Left side In repeating the dissection of the left half of the neck, the differs . from differences observable between it and the right side are spe- right. . ° r cially to be studied. When the description of the right side will suffice, reference will be made to it. Dissec. Directions.—After the neck has been made tense over a anterior narrow block, the anterior triangle and the anterior part of o"neck] the neck are to be prepared as on the opposite side. The description of the right side (p. 63.) is to be used for both those regions, for the sterno-mastoideus, and for the de- pressor muscles of the hyoid bone, of sea- Next the scaleni muscles and the subclavian vessels are subcia- to be taken. The dissection and description of those parts tery. on the right side (p. 68.), will serve for these on the left, except that the student will meet on the left side with the thoracic duct. This little tube will be seen in connection with the part of the artery internal to the scalenus muscle, and afterwards to cross in front of the scalenus to join the subclavian vein. On this side, too, the clavicle may remain articulated. Subcia- The left subclavian artery arises from the arch of the tery aorta, instead of from the innominate artery, and ascends thence, over the first rib, in its course to the upper limb, differs With this difference on the two sides in the origin of the much 1 -i . from subclavian, the one vessel beginning opposite the sterno-cla- subcia- vicular articulation, the other in the thorax, it is evident vian that the length and connections of the part of the artery on the inner side of the scalenus must vary much on opposite sides. fiistpart ^rst part-— The part of the artery internal to the ante- ofitsex- rior scalenus is much longer on the left than the right side, tent. ° . . and is almost vertical in direction, instead of being horizon - tal, like its fellow vessel. Moreover it is deeply placed in the neck, near the spine and the oesophagus, and does not rise so high above the first rib as the right subclavian. t?onTec" Between tne artery and the surface are the same parts as roundUr" are superficial to tne right vessel, viz. the common tegu- ™|tg ments and deep fascia, with the sterno-mastoid, hyoid, and123 SUBCLAVIAN AND CAEOTID ARTERIES. thyroid muscles. Behind the vessel is the longus colli muscle, with the inferior ganglion of the sympathetic. To the inner side are the oesophagus and the thoracic duct; and the pleura is in contact with the anterior and outer parts. Its connections lower in the chest are described in the dissec- tion of the thorax. The pneumo-gastric nerve is in connection with this part Position , of vagus of the artery, but its position is parallel to the vessel instead of across it, as on the right side. The internal jugular vein, and Jn- 4 in like manner, is parallel to the artery for a short distance, jugular and superficial to it. Accompanying also the subclavian artery are the cardiac branches of the sympathetic, which course along the side of the vessel to the chest. The second and third parts of the artery, viz. beneath and Rest of beyond the scalenus, are the same as on the right side. tery. The branches of this artery resemble so closely those of Branch- the right trunk, that one description will serve for both. It sembie may be remarked, that the superior intercostal of the left right ° side is usually internal to the scalenus, instead of beneath it; in other words, this branch arises sooner (see p. 74.). The thoracic duct conveys the chyle and lymph of the Thoracic greater part of the body into the venous circulation. Es- comes caping from the thorax, between the subclavian artery and [n°™ x the oesophagus, the duct ascends in the neck as high as the seventh or sixth cervical vertebra. At the spot mentioned as its highest extent, the duct arches outwards above the subclavian artery, but in front of the scalenus muscle and phrenic nerve, to open into the subclavian vein rather ex- and joins subcla- ternal to the union of this with the iusfular vein. Double vian vein. valves, like those of the veins, are present in the interior of the tube; and two guard the opening into the posterior part of the vein, to prevent the passage of the blood into it. Most commonly the upper part of the duct is divided; and there may be separate openings in the large vein, corre- sponding to those divisions. Examine next the brachial and cervical plexuses, using spinal the description of the right side, p. 75. Common carotids.—On opposite sides, these vessels have Differ- a difference like that between the right and left subclavian origin": arteries ; for on the left side the vessel arises alone, and left^a-^ -from the arch of the aorta, and is, therefore, deep in the rotids.DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 124 chest, and longer than the right. The part of the artery between its origin and the upper piece of the sternum will be seen in the dissection of the thorax, in the Beyond the sternoclavicular articulation the vessels, on neck J both sides, so nearly resemble one another that the same description will serve for the two (p. 78.). It must be re- differ- marked, however, that, on the left side, the jugular vein and ence in . vein and the pneumo-gastric nerve are much nearer to the accompa- nerve. . nying artery than on the right side, and are commonly placed over the artery in the lower third of the neck. Thyroid The thyroid body is a soft reddish mass, which is situate consists opposite the upper part of the trachea. It consists of two ?obes° l°Des> one on each side, which are united by a narrow piece across the front of the windpipe; this connecting piece, by i cros pieces about half an inch in depth, is named the isthmus, and is placed opposite the second and third rings of the air tube. Each lobe is somewhat conical in shape, with the smaller Connec- end upwards, and is about two inches in length. It is inter- tionsand p0gej between the windpipe and the sheath of the common carotid artery, where it is covered by the sterno-thyroid, extent of sterno-hyoid, and omo-hyoid muscles. The extent of the lobe depends upon the variations in its size ; but usually the lateral piece reaches as high as the ala of the thyroid carti- lage, and as low as the sixth ring of the trachea. Accesso- From the upper part of the thyroid body, and most com- TJr pyrcae. monly from the left lobe, there is occasionally found a conical mid* piece — pyramid — ascending towards the hyoid bone, to which it is connected by a fibrous band. Sometimes this part is attached to the hyoid bone by a slip of muscle, the levator glandulce thyreoidece of Soemmerring. weight This body is of a brownish red or purple hue, and weighs and size. from one to two ounces. Its size is larger in the woman than in the man. No excretory tube has been found attached to it. Nodis- Structure. — The thyroid body is not provided with a dis- canpCsuie. tinct capsule, but is surrounded by cellular tissue, that pro- jects into its substance and divides it into masses. It has a granular texture. Consists The substance of the gland consists of spherical or eieirK elongated vesicles, which vary in size, some being as large as the head of a small pin, and others only of an inch.125 THYROID BODY AND TRACHEA. These vesicles are simple sacs, distinct from one another, and contain a yellow fluid, with nuclear-like bodies some- times; in the wall of these bodies are found a thin proper membrane, and a nucleated epithelial lining. Capillary and vessels and areolar tissue connect the vesicles together into small irregular masses or lobules, of the size of the little finger nail. On cutting into the gland a viscid yellowish fluid escapes. Bloodvessels. — The arteries to the thyroid body are two on each Road- side (superior and inferior thyroid) ; and occasionally there is an additional branch (lowest thyroid), from the innominate artery. The branches of the external carotid (superior thyroid) ramify Supe- chiefly on the anterior aspect; while those from the subclavian ferior, (inferior thyroid) pierce the under surface of the thyroid body, est thy^" A very free communication is established between all the arteries; ter?es.r~ and in the glandular substance the arteries form a fine capillary network around the vesicles, and so pass into the capillary radicles of the veins. The veins are also large and numerous; they are superior, Veins, middle, and inferior thyroid on each side. The first two have been traced to the internal jugular vein (p. 83.). The inferior thyroid inferior veins, two in number, issue from the lower part of the thyroid plexus body, and descend on the trachea, the two forming a plexus on trachea, that tube beneath the sterno-thyroid muscles ; each finally enters the innominate vein of its own side. The trachea, or air tube, is continued from the larynx to Trachea the thorax, and ends by dividing into two tubes (bronchi), one for each lung. It occupies the middle line of the body, lies in and extends commonly from the fifth cervical to the third thorax, dorsal vertebra, measuring about four inches and a half in length, and nearly one in breadth. The front of the trachea Form, is rounded in consequence of the existence of firm carti- laginous bands in the anterior wall, but at the posterior aspect the cartilages are absent, and the tube is flat and muscular. Its cavity remains pervious in health, under all conditions. The cervical part of the trachea is very moveable, and Cervical has the following relative position to the surrounding parts, amongst Covering it in front are the small muscles from the sternum muscles to the hyoid bone, with the deep cervical fascia: beneath the muscles is the inferior thyroid plexus of veins; and near the larynx is the isthmus of the thyroid body. Behind the tube126 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. and is the oesophagus, with the recurrent nerves. On each side are the common carotid artery and the thyroid body. The structure of the trachea is described at p. 174. ceso- The (esophagus, or gullet, reaches from the pharynx to phagus the stomach. It commences, like the trachea, opposite the occupies fifth cervical vertebra, and ends opposite the tenth dorsal thorax, vertebra. In length it measures about nine inches. This tube reaches through part of the neck, and through the whole of the thorax, and occupies, for the most part, the middle line of the body. Position In the neck its position is behind the trachea, till near the thorax, where it projects to the left side, beyond the air tube, and comes into connection with the thyroid body and and con- the thoracic duct. Behind the oesophagus is the longus colli nections. . muscle; and on each side is the common carotid artery, the proximity of the left being greatest, because of the projection of the oesophagus towards the same side. The structure of the oesophagus will be learnt in the dis- section of the thorax. Muscles Directions.—Let the dissector examine next the digastric nerves and stylo-hyoid muscles, with the hypo-glossal nerve; and, terfor afterwards, the trunk of the external carotid, with its follow- tnangie. branches, superior thyroid, facial, occipital, posterior auricular, and superficial temporal. The description of the right side (p. 79.) may be used for these parts, pterygo- The dissector is not to examine the pterygo-maxillary or maxilla- sub-maxillary regions on this (the left) side of the neck, gums"to because the proceeding would interfere writh subsequent dis- be^omit- gec^ons# Before learning the pharynx he should lay bare, on this side, the middle and inferior ganglia of the sympathetic and their branches. Dissec- Dissection.—For the dissection of the two lower ganglia of the sympathetic and their branches, it will be necessary to cut across the common carotid artery at the lower part of the neck, and the external and internal carotid where they are crossed by the digastric muscle. In removing these vessels with the internal jugular vein, care must be taken of the sympathetic beneath them. The upper end of the sternum with its attached clavicle is next to be taken away, by cutting through the middle of the first rib ; and the piece of bone thus obtained is to be put aside for the subsequent tion of127 DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. examination of the sterno-clavicular articulation. The viz. middle ganglion will be found in the cellular membrane near anViow- the inferior thyroid artery ; and the inferior one will be seen giif.an" on the neck of the first rib, after a piece of the subclavian artery has been cut out. The upper cardiac nerve will be found descending beneath the carotid sheath. The middle and inferior cervical ganglia of the sympathetic Ganglia nerve are so similar to the corresponding ganglia of the right pathetic side, that the same description will suffice (p. 121.). The cardiac nerves are three in number on the left, as on cardiac the right side, viz. superior, middle, and inferior, but they nerves- present some peculiarities. The superior cardiac nerve has on both sides a similar course in upper, the neck; but the left in entering the chest is between the carotid and subclavian arteries, and parallel to them. The middle cardiac nerve frequently joins the next nerve, and Middle, passes beneath the subclavian artery to the deep cardiac plexus. The inferior cardiac nerve is generally a small branch that enters Lower, the thorax conjoined with the preceeding, and ends in the cardiac plexus. Section XL DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. The pharynx, or the commencement of the alimentary passage, can be examined only when it has been separated from the rest of the body ; and it will therefore be necessary to cut through the base of the skull in the manner mentioned below, so as to have the anterior half of the skull, with which the pharynx is connected, detached from the posterior half. Dissection. —Preparatory to sawing the skull certain other to de- steps are necessary. In the first place, the block being re- ph°aryn moved from beneath the neck, the head is to be placed down- wards, so that it may stand on the cut surface of the skull. Next the trachea and oesophagus, together with the vagus and sympathetic nerves, are to be cut near the first rib (should these be still uncut), and all are to be separated from the spine as high as the basilar process of the occipital bone, but without disturbing, on the left side, the vessels and nerves near the skull. For the division of the skull, let the dissector chisel through partly ° divideDISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. 128 baseof^ the basilar process of the occipital bone, between the attach- temaiiy, ment of the pharynx and the muscles of the spinal column, the cut being directed backwards. Turning upwards then the inner surface of the base of the skull, the dissector will make the following incisions in the posterior fossa. On the and cut right side, a cut with a chisel is to be carried alonjr the line the re- ° mainder of union of the petrous part of the temporal with the occipital side, bone, as far forwards as the incision across the basilar pro- cess. On the left side, another cut with the chisel is to be made in the same direction, but through the occipital bone, internal to the foramen lacerum jugulare and the inferior petrosal sinus : this is to begin rather behind the foramen lacerum, and to end opposite the one on the other side. Lastly, the side of the skull is to be sawn through close behind the mastoid part of the temporal bone, so that the incision shall meet the posterior end of the cut made with and then the chisel. The base of the skull is now divided into two parts, parts ; one having the pharynx attached to it, the other arti- culating with the spine, — which can be readily separated with a scalpel. Preserve The spinal column, with the piece of the occipital bone spine.of connected with it, should be set aside, and kept for after-ex- amination. Fasten Dissection of the pharynx, — Let the student take the an- in pasi-X terior part of the divided skull, and, after filling the pharynx with tow, fasten it with hooks on a block, so that the oeso- phagus may be pendent and towards him. Dissect On the left side of the pharynx a view may be obtained of Snieft the eighth, ninth, and sympathetic nerves near the skull, slde' when some cellular membrane, and the styloid process with its muscles have been removed, andmus- Afterwards, on one side, say the right, the dissector may the op- proceed to remove the fascia from the constrictor muscles in posite. tjie direcj-ion 0f their fibres, which radiate from the side to the middle line. The margins of the two lower constrictor muscles (middle and inferior) are to be defined. Beneath the lower one, near the larynx, will be found the recurrent nerve ; whilst, intervening between the middle and superior, are the stylo-pharyngeus muscle and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. To see the attachment of the superior constrictor to the lower jaw and the pter'ygo-maxillary ligament, it will beTHE PHARYNX. 129 necessary to cut through the internal pterygoid muscle. Above the upper fibres of this constrictor, and near the base of the skull (petrous part of the temporal bone), will be found two small muscles of the palate:—one, tensor palati, lies between the internal pterygoid plate and the pterygoid muscle; and the other, levator palati, is rather farther back, and of larger size. The pharynx is the upper part of the alimentary tube, Pharynx which is situate behind the mouth, nose, and larynx. Through mouth the upper part of this passage, besides the food, the air is nose, transmitted in respiration. Its extent is from the base of Extent, the skull to the cricoid cartilage of the larynx, where it ends in the oesophagus. In form it is somewhat conical, and is so form, placed that the base or dilated part is upwards, and the apex or narrower part downwards. In length it measures about length; four inches and a half. The tube of the pharynx is incomplete in front, where it is an in- . t T . .* , . _ _ . . complete communicates with the cavities above mentioned, but is quite bag; closed behind. On each side of the pharynx are the trunks is he- tween of the carotid arteries, with the internal jugular vein and the biood- accompanying eighth, ninth, and sympathetic nerves. Be- and in hind it is the spinal column, covered by the deep muscles, spinel viz. longus colli and rectus capitis anticus major. The wall of the pharynx is constructed in front by the Compo- larynx, the hyoid bone, and the tongue, and by the bony framework of the nasal cavity ; but behind it possesses thin, fleshy and membranous strata. In the posterior wall are three thin muscles, which are so arranged, that the lower overlays the middle, and the middle the upper muscle, like the disposition of scales ; and at the upper part the bag is farther completed by an aponeurotic expansion, which fixes it to the base of the skull. The whole is lined by mucous membrane. The aponeurosis of attachment is seen at the upper part of Aponeu- n rosis of the pharynx, where the muscular fibres are deficent, to con- pharynx, nect the muscular part to the base of the skull, and to com- plete the posterior boundary. Superiorly, it is fixed to the basilar process of the occipital bone, and to the petrous part of the temporal bone, as well as to ihe cartilage between them ; but inferiorly it becomes thin and cellular, and extends K130 DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. between the muscular and mucous strata. On this membrane some of the fibres of the constrictor muscles terminate. Lower The inferior constrictor, the most superficial of the tor mus- muscles of the pharynx, arises from the side of the cricoid arises cartilage, from the oblique line and the borders of the ala of larynx the thyroid cartilage, and from the part of the last cartilage and ends behind that line. The origin is small when compared with middle the insertion, for the fibres are directed backwards, radiating, and are inserted along the middle line, where it meets the Parts in corresponding muscle of the opposite side. The outer surface withif. of the muscle is in contact with the sheath of the carotid artery, and with the muscles covering the spinal column. The lower border is straight, and is continuous with the fibres of the oesophagus, whilst the upper border overlaps the fibres of the middle constrictor. The recurrent nerve enters beneath the lower border. Middle The middle constrictor muscle has the same shape as torfetnc" the preceding ; that is to say, it is narrow in front and ex- passes panded behind. Its fibres arise from the great cornu of the oid^oone os hyoides, from the small cornu of the same bone, and from middle the stylo-hyoid ligament. From this origin the fibres radiate, behind, and are blended along the middle line with the other muscles. The surfaces of the muscle have connections similar to those Connec- of the preceding constrictor. The upper border is separated from the superior constrictor by the stylo-pharyngeus muscle and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and ends on the aponeurosis of the pharynx, about an inch from the base of the skull. The lower border descends beneath the inferior constrictor; and between the two is the superior laryngeal nerve, stylo- The stylo-pharyngeus muscle may be again seen with the geusfn" pharynx. Its description is given at p. 107. upper The superior constrictor is the least marked of the constnc- tkree muscies? and wants the regular or conical form. Its Origin origin is extensive, and is connected successively, from above m front. ^Qwn^ ^e jnner surface of the internal pterygoid plate (its lower third), with the pterygo-maxillary ligament, with the posterior part of the mylo-hyoid ridge of the lower jaw, with the mucous membrane of the mouth, and with the inser- side of the tongue. The fleshy fibres pass backwards, and hTntUs" are inserted into the aponeurosis of the pharynx, as well as others. tne raphe along the middle line. The parts in contact,131 INTERIOR OF PHARYNX. K 2 externally, with this muscle are all the deep vessels and contigu- nerves of the neck; and internally, it is lined by the apo- parts, neurosis and the mucous membrane. The upper border consists of the arched fibres which are directed backwards from the pterygoid plate, and above it the levator and tensor palati muscles are seen. The lower border has been seen to be overlaid by the middle constrictor muscle. The attach- ment to the pterygo-maxillary ligament corresponds to the origin of the buccinator muscle. Dissection.—Open the pharynx by an incision along its Dissec middle, and, after removing the tow from the interior, keep it open with hooks. A better view of the cavity will be obtained by partly dividing the occipital attachment on each side. The interior of the pharynx is wider from side to side interior than from before back. Its greatest width is opposite the rynx. hyoid bone, from which spot it diminishes both upwards and downwards, but much more rapidly in the latter than in the former direction. In it the following objects are to be objects noticed:—At the top are the posterior apertures of the noted, nares, which are separated by the septum nasi; and below them is the soft palate, partly closing the cavity of the mouth. By the side of the aperture from each nostril is the trumpet-shaped end of the Eustachian tube. Below the soft palate is the opening into the mouth—isthmus faucium ; and on each side of this is the tonsil, which is placed in a hollow between two prominences, named pillars of the soft palate, one proceeding from the soft palate to the side of the tongue, and another from the same part to the side of the pharynx. Next in order, below the mouth, is the aperture of the larynx, and close in front of it is the epiglottis, or the valve that assists to close the opening during deglutition. And lowest of all is the opening from the pharynx into the oesophagus. The apertures into the pharynx then are seven in number, seven and have the following position and boundaries :— tSres, The nares or the posterior openings of the nasal fossae are ^'res. two in number. Each is of an oval form, corresponding to the shape of the osseous parts that bound it in the dried skull, and is lined by mucous membrane. They are sepa- rated by the vomer, or the posterior part of the septum narium.132 DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. Eusta- The Eustachian tube is a canal, partly osseous, partly car- tubes ; tilaginous, by which the cavity of the tympanum communi- cates with the external air. Only the cartilaginous part that is external to the bone can now be seen, cartiia- If the mucous membrane be removed from the naris on ginous . . • part one side, the cartilaginous part of the tube will appear to be inch nearly an inch long. It is narrow superiorly, where it is fixed to the margins of a groove between the sphenoid and the petrous part of the temporal bone; and is directed down- wide war(^s t° the pharynx, where it ends by a wide aperture on opening; the inner surface of the internal pterygoid plate, rather above the inferior spongy bone of the nose. Its opening in the pharynx is oval in form; and the inner side, which is larger than the outer, projects forward, giving rise to a is a bent trumpet-shaped mouth. This part of the tube is constructed piece of x m x A lage" a triangular piece of cartilage, whose margins are bent downwards, and enclose a narrow space; but at the outer and under aspect the cartilage is deficient, and the space is Mucous limited by fibrous membrane. Closely united to the ptery- brane goid plate, the tube is covered by the mucous membrane ; and lines and through it the cavity of the tympanum receives its mucous lining from the pharynx, opening The isthmus faucium is a somewhat narrowed passage be- fauces. tween the mouth and the fauces, whose size is altered by the elevated or pendent position of the soft palate. The space is bounded below by the root of the tongue; above, by the soft palate; and on each side by the projecting arches of the soft palate, which are named pillars of the fauces. Upper The aperture of the larynx is wide in front, where it is o?ia-lng bounded by the epiglottis, and pointed behind, between the r>nx* arytenoid cartilages. The sides are sloped from before back, and are formed by folds of the mucous membrane extending between the arytenoid cartilages and the epiglottis. During respiration this aperture is unobstructed, but during the act of deglutition it is closed by the epiglottis. Begin. The opening into the cesophagus is the narrowest part of cesopha- the pharynx, and is opposite the cricoid cartilage, or the gus* fifth cervical vertebra. Internally, the mucous membrane of the oesophagus is paler than in the pharynx; and exter- nally, the point at which the pharynx ends is marked by a133 VELUM PENDULUM PALATI. slight contraction, and by a change in the direction of the muscular fibres. The soft palate (velum pendulum palati) is a moveable soft pa- structure between the mouth and the pharynx, which can backt«f either close the isthmus of the fauces, or cut off the passage to the nose, according as it is depressed or elevated. In the usual position of the soft palate (the state of relaxation) the anterior surface is somewhat curved, and is continuous with surfaces, the roof of the mouth, whilst the opposite surface is convex and turned to the pharynx. The upper border is fixed to borders ; the posterior margin of the hard palate; and each lateral part joins the pharynx. The lower border is free, and pre- from it sents in the centre a conical pendulous part — the uvula. Svufa. Along the middle line is a slight prominence, indicative of the original separation into two halves. Springing from the lower part of the soft palate, near to Arches the uvula, are two folds on each side, containing muscular pTiiars; fibres, which are directed downwards on the sides of the isthmus faucium. These are named arches or pillars of the palate, and are distinguished from one another by their relative position. The anterior one reaches the side of the anterior, tongue near its root, and the posterior, longer than the other, ppste- is continued to the side of the pharynx. As they diverge from their common origin' to their insertion, they limit a triangular space, in which the tonsil lies. The velum consists of an aponeurosis, together with Eie- muscles, vessels and nerves, and mucous glands; and the velum, whole is enveloped by the mucous membrane. Dissection. — Some of the muscles of the palate are readily Dissec- _. _ . . . . tionof displayed, but others require great care in their dissection, the mus- On the right side, the two principal muscles of the soft Levator palate—the elevator and tensor, are to be seen. These have tensor been partly dissected on the outside of the pharynx, but to haif.lght follow them to their destination, let the upper attachment of the pharynx on the same side, and the part of the superior constrictor, which arises from the internal pterygoid plate, be cut through. The levator will be fully laid bare by the removal of the mucous membrane and the muscular fibres covering its lower part; and the tendon of the tensor palati should be followed round the hamular process of the pterygoid K 3DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. 134 plate. The position of the Eustachian tube with respect to those muscles should be defined, on left On the left side, the mucous membrane is to be raised pharyn- with care from the posterior aspect of the palate, to obtain a geus' view of the superficial fibres. Immediately beneath the mucous covering are some transverse fibres of the palato- pharyngeus muscle, and beneath these, in the middle line, azygos the longitudinal fibres of the azygos uvulae. The student mu 88 should next remove the mucous membrane from the muscular fibres constituting the arches of the palate, and should follow these upwards and downwards: in order to see those of the and anterior fold, it will be necessary to take the membrane from palato- , 7 J giossus. the anterior aspect of the palate. If the part is not tolerably fresh, some of the paler fibres will not be visible. Aponeu- Aponeurosis of the soft palate. — Giving strength to the palate, velum is an aponeurosis, which is attached to the hard palate. This structure becomes thinner as it descends in the velum; and it is joined by the tendon of the tensor palati muscle. Nine^ The muscles of the soft palate are four on each side,— an elevator and tensor ; together with the palato-glossus and palato-pharyngeus, which act as depressors. In addition, there is a small central azygos muscle. Elevator The levator palati is a thick, roundish muscle, and is arises partly situate outside the pharynx. It arises from the under pharynx, surface of the apex of the petrous part of the temporal bone, and from the inner aspect of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. The fibres descend, enter the pharynx above the superior constrictor, and then spread out in the soft palate, where they join along the middle line with those of the and is 7 muscle of the opposite side. Outside the pharynx this muscle leium. rests against the Eustachian tube. In the palate it forms a stratum, that reaches the whole depth of that structure, and is embraced by the two planes of fibres of the palato-pha- ryngeus. Tensor The tensor vel ciRCTJMFLEXUS palati arises like the pre- muscle ceding outside the palate and pharynx : it is a thin, riband- like band, which is tendinous at its deep border, and is situate between the internal pterygoid plate and the ptery- arises goid muscle. The muscle is about one inch and a half pharynx wide at its origin, and is attached to the slight depression135 MUSCLES OF PALATE. K 4 (scaphoid fossa) at the root of the internal pterygoid plate, to the outer part of the Eustachian tube, and still farther out to the spinous process of the sphenoid, and to the front of the vaginal process of the temporal bone. Inferiorly the turns fleshy fibres end in a tendon, which is reflected round the hamular hamular process, and is inserted into about half an inch ofprocess' the posterior border of the palate, viz. from the central spine to a projecting point; whilst inferiorly the tendon joins the aponeurosis of the velum. As the tendon winds and ends round the bone, it is thrown into folds, and in the soft neurosis; palate it lies beneath the levator muscle. The Eustachian is deeper tube is directed inwards between this muscle and the pre- others, ceding one. Between the tendon and the hamular process is a small bursa. The palatoglossus muscle (constrictor isthmi faucium) paiato- is a small, fleshy band of fibres, which is contained in the glossus- anterior arch of the soft palate, and reaches to the side of the tongue. The muscles of opposite sides narrow the opening between the mouth and fauces, hence the name that has been applied to them. It is connected inferiorly with the lateral Attach- aspect and dorsum of the tongue; from this spot the fibres ments* ascend before the tonsil, to the anterior aspect of the soft palate, where they form a thin muscular stratum, and join those of the fellow muscle along the middle line. At its origin the muscle is blended with the glossal muscles, and at its insertion it is placed before the tensor palati. The palato-pharyngieus is much larger in size than the paiat0- preceding muscle ; it gives rise to the eminence of the pos- geusfn" terior pillar of the soft palate, and bounds the tonsil pos- in pil]ar teriorly. The muscle arises inferiorly from the posterior °aia°te. border of the thyroid cartilage, and some fibres blend with the contiguous portion of the pharynx. Ascending thence behind the tonsil, the fibres enter the side of the palate, and Attach- separate into two fleshy strata. The posterior of the two, ments* thin and in contact with the mucous membrane, joins at the middle line the corresponding muscle. The deeper or an- terior stratum, much the strongest, enters the substance of the palate between the levator and tensor, and joins also, at the middle line, the like part of the opposite muscle. In the palate the muscle encloses the levator palati and azygos muscles between its two strata.DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. 136 Azygos The azygos uvulae is situate along the middle line of the muscle -i . . ,-p,, , . P is single velum near its posterior aspect. Ine muscle consists or two middle; narrow slips of pale fibres, which arise from the spine at the posterior border of the hard palate, or from the contiguous aponeurosis, and end inferiorly in the tip of the uvula. Be- attach. hind this muscle, separating it from the mucous membrane, merits. < # 7 r ° is the thin stratum of the palato-pharyngeus. Tonsil The tonsil is a collection of muciparous follicles close above tween ^ the base of the tongue, and between the arches of the soft palate, palate. It is roundish in shape, but variable in size, and the apertures of the follicles are generally apparent on its sur- face. Externally the tonsil is opposite the superior con- strictor muscle, and the angle of the lower jaw; and when the tonsil is enlarged it may press against the carotid blood vessels. Vessels. Its arteries are numerous, and are derived from the facial, lin- gual, ascending pharyngeal, and internal maxillary branches of the external carotid; and its veins have a plexiform arrangement on Nerves, the outer side of the body. Nerves are furnished to it from the fifth and eighth cranial nerves. Mucous The mucous membrane of the pharynx is continuous an- braneof teriorly with the mucous lining of the mouth and nose. cont?-nx Covering the soft palate and its numerous small glands toUthen" (palatine), the membrane is continued to the tonsils on each tures". side, and is prolonged by the Eustachian tubes to the tym- panum. From the dorsum of the tongue it is continued over the epiglottis, forming three small folds, and then lines the pharynx. In front of each arytenoid cartilage it encloses a mass of muciparous glands (arytenoid), and sends another prolongation into the larynx. Inferiorly, it is continued by the oesophagus to the stomach, supe- The mucous membrane is thicker, redder, and better pro- haTco- vided with glands' in the upper, than in the lower part of inferior- the pharynx ; and its character, near the different apertures, epithe- resembles that of the membranes lining the cavities opening llum* into the pharynx. Its epithelium is scaly below the palate, that is to say, in the part through which the food passes ; but columnar, and ciliated above that spot, where only the air is transmitted. Begin- Beginning of the oesophagus.—In addition to what has nmg ° been said of the commencement of the oesophagus, and its137 CAVITY OF THE MOUTH. connections in the neck,, it may be remarked, that the size of oesopha- gus. this tube is less than that of the pharynx, and that the walls are flaccid. On dissection the tube will be found to consist of two Formed layers of muscular fibres, with a lining of mucous mem- layers of J ? fibres; brane. The external layer is formed of longitudinal fibres, which outer or commence opposite the cricoid cartilage by three bundles, dinai, anterior and two lateral; — the former is attached to the ridge at the back of the cartilage, and the others join the in- ferior constrictor. The internal layer, on the other hand, and in- is formed by circular fibres, which are continuous with those circular, of the constrictor. The structure of the oesophagus is de- scribed more fully in the dissection of the thorax. Section XII. CAVITY OF THE MOUTH. The cheeks, the lips, and the teeth, may be examined with the mouth, as all these may be considered accessory parts. The Mouth.—The cavity of the mouth is situate below Mouth, the nose, and extends from the lips in front to the isthmus of the fauces behind. Its boundaries are partly osseous and situa- partly muscular, and its size depends upon the position of the lower jaw, When the lower jaw is moderately removed form, from the upper one, the mouth is an oval cavity with the following boundaries. The roof is concave, and is formed and & -ip . bounda- by the hard and soft palate, and is limited anteriorly by ries. the arch of the teeth. In the floor is the tongue, bounded by the arch of the lower teeth; and beneath the tip of that body is the frsenum lingua?, with the sublingual gland on each side. Each lateral boundary consists of the cheek and the ramus of the lower jaw ; and in it, near the second molar tooth in the upper jaw, is the opening of the parotid duct. The anterior opening of the mouth is bounded by the lips, and the posterior corresponds to the pillars of the soft palate. The mucous membrane of the mouth is much thicker on Lining the hard than the soft parts of the cavity; it lines the in- mouthDISSECTION OF THE MOUTH. 138 terior of the cavity, and is reflected over the tongue. Ante- riorly it is continuous with the tegument, and posteriorly with the lining of the pharynx, differs in On tracing its disposition, the membrane is seen to form a parts, small fold—frsenulum, between the lip and the gum of the cor- on roof, responding jaw. On the bony part of the roof it is thick and thrown into folds, and covers vessels, nerves, cellular tissue and glands ; but on the soft palate it is smooth and thinner. Along the middle of the palate is a ridge, which ends in floor, front in a small papilla. In the floor of the mouth, the membrane forms the frsenum linguae beneath the tip of the tongue, and sends tubes into the openings of the Whartonian and sublingual ducts ; whilst on each side of the fraenum it andnps *s ra^se(^ ^nto a crest by the subjacent sublingual gland. On the interior of the cheek and lips the mucous lining is smooth, and is separated from the muscles by small buccal and labial glands in addition to the ordinary submucous tissue. Over the whole oral cavity, but especially on the lips, are found papillas for the purpose of touch. The epithelium covering the membrane is of the scaly variety, cheek; The cheek extends from the commissure of the lips to the extent ramus of the lower jaw, and is attached, above and below, to the alveolar process of the jaw on the outer aspect. The and chief constituent of the cheek is the fleshy part of the bucci- ture." nator muscle: on the inner surface of this is the mucous membrane; and on the outer, the integuments, with some muscles, vessels, and nerves. The parotid duct perforates the cheek opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw, and receives a lining of the mucous membrane. Lips, The lips surround the opening of the mouth ; they consist formed of the fleshy part of the orbicularis oris muscle, covered ex- byorbi- J r , cuiaris; ternally by integument, and internally by mucous membrane. The lower lip is the larger and more moveable of the two. Between the muscular structure and the mucous covering are the labial glands; and in the substance of the lip, nearer the contains inner than the outer aspect, and at the line of junction of the artery. ^ two parts of the orbicularis, is the arch of the coronary artery. Teeth, Teeth.—In the adult there are sixteen teeth in each jaw, number which are set in the alveolar border of the maxilla, in the range-" form of an arch, and are surrounded by the gums. Each139 THE NOSE. dental arch has its convexity turned forwards; and, commonly, ment in the arch in the upper maxilla overhangs that in the lowerJdW' maxilla when the jaws are in contact. The teeth are similar in the half of each jaw, and have received the following names: — the most anterior two are incisors, and the one different next behind is the canine tooth; two, still farther back, are the bicuspid teeth, and the last three are molar teeth. More- over, the last molar tooth has been also called " dens sapi- entias," from the late period of its appearance. The names Use in applied to the teeth indicate very nearly the part they per- tion. form in mastication; thus the incisor and canine teeth act as dividers of the food, whilst the bicuspid and molar teeth serve to grind the aliment. The several parts of the teeth, viz. the crown, fang, and Fuller r 7 n notice neck ; the general and special characters of these parts, and eise-^ of the different groups of the teeth ; and the structure of the different components of a tooth,'must be referred to else- where.* Section XIII. DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. To obtain a view of the interior of the nose, it will be neces- sary to make a longitudinal section through the base of the skull. Whilst the student examines the boundaries of the nose, he should be provided with a section of the skull. Dissection.—Before making the necessary sawing of the Dissec- bone, the loose part of the lower jaw on the right side fore saw- should be taken away; further, the tongue, hyoid bone, and bone, larynx, all united, may be detached from the opposite half of the lower jaw, and laid aside till the dissector is ready to use them. The saw being placed on the right side of the crista galli cut of the ethmoid bone, is to be carried vertically through the the bone frontal and nasal bones, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, saw. and part of the body of the sphenoid bone. Now the roof of the mouth is to be turned upwards, and the soft parts to be * For this information the student may refer to the account of the teeth that has been given by Dr. Sharpey, in QuairCs Anatomy, fifth edition.140 DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. divided ; and then the saw is to be carried through the hard palate on the right side of the septum nasi, and through the body of the sphenoid bone, in such a direction as to make the cut join the incision from above. The piece of the skull is now easily separated into two parts, right and left; and by proceeding as above directed, the delicate bones of the nose are less injured than they would be by sawing con- tinuously in one direction. The right half will serve for the examination of the meatuses, and the left will show the septum nasi. situa-^ The cavity of the nose occupies the centre of the bones nose. of the face; it is situate above the mouth, and between the orbits, and the sinuses of the superior maxillary bones. This Division space is divided into two parts — nasal fossse, by a vertical into two. 4 A 7 J partition. open- Each fossa is larger below than above, and is flattened in form, so that the measurement from before back or above down, exceeds much that from within out. It communicates both with the face and the pharynx by apertures named nares, and has also apertures of communication with the sinuses in the surrounding bones, viz. frontal, ethmoid, sphenoid, and superior maxillary. In each fossa are a roof and floor, an inner and an outer wall, and an anterior and posterior opening, to be examined. Roof. The roof is somewhat arched, and is formed by the cribri- form plate of the ethmoid bone in the centre, by the nasal bone and cartilages in front, and by the body of the sphenoid, and part of the palate bone at the posterior part. Many apertures exist in the ethmoid bone for the passage of the olfactory nerves, and in the front of the body of the sphenoid are the openings of its sinuses. Fioor. The floor is slightly hollowed from side to side, and in it are found the palate and superior maxillary bones — their palate processes. Near the front is the aperture of the anterior palatine canal, inner The inner boundary (septum narium) is partly osseous dary * and partly cartilaginous, and will be seen when the lining partly membrane has been removed. The osseous part is con- osseous, s^ructe(j -fay ^e vomer^ by the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone, and by the parts of the frontal and nasal, partly with which this last bone articulates above. The irregular141 MEATUSES OF THE NOSE. space present in the dried bones is filled by the triangular cartiia- cartilage of the septum, which forms part of the partition between the nostrils, and supports the cartilages of the ante- rior aperture. Fixed between the vomer, the ethmoid plate, and the nasal bones, the cartilage rests anteriorly on the median ridge between the superior maxillary bones, and projects even beyond, between the cartilages of each nostril. The septum narium is commonly bent to one side. The outer boundary has the greatest extent and the most outer irregular surface. The bones entering into this wall come dary, in the following order, when they are enumerated from before backwards : — the nasal and superior maxillary ; the lateral mass of the ethmoid bone, with the small os unguis ; and posteriorly the ascending part of the palate bone, with the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid bone : of these, the nasal and lingual reach only half-way from roof to floor, whilst the others extend the whole depth ; and altogether in front of the bones, the lateral cartilages may be said to con- struct part of this boundary. On this wall are three COnvO- is irre- luted osseous pieces, named spongy or turbinate bones, which surface; project into the cavity: — the two upper are processes of the ethmoid bone, but the lower is the separate inferior spongy bone. Between each turbinate bone and the wall of the presents nose, is a longitudinal hollow or meatus; and into these fissures> hollows, the nasal duct, and the sinuses of the surrounding bones, open. The meatuses are the spaces overhung by the spongy bones, but as these are limited to a certain part of the outer wall, so is the extent of the spaces that are determined by them. The upper one is the smallest of the three meatuses, and upper occupies about the posterior half of the outer boundary : or mea- into it the posterior ethmoidal and the sphenoidal sinuses tus' open — the first at the front, the other at the back; and at its posterior part, in the dried bone, is the spheno-palatine foramen, by which the nerves and vessels enter the nose. The middle meatus is longer than the preceding, and reaches middle, about two-thirds of the length of the outer wall. It com- municates anteriorly by a funnel-shaped passage (infundibu- lum) with the frontal sinus and the anterior ethmoidal cells ; and near its middle is a small aperture, about the size of aDISSECTION OF THE NASAL CAVITY. 142 lower, crow-quill, that leads into the cavity of the upper jaw. The inferior meatus equals in length four-fifths of the outer wall of the nasal fossa; in its front is the opening of the ductus ad nasum, and nearly on a level with it, behind, the Eusta- chian tube may be seen. Nares. The nares. In the recent condition of the parts, each fossa has a distinct anterior opening in the face, and another in the pharynx, but in the skeleton there is only one com- mon opening, in front, for both sides. These apertures, and the parts bounding them, have been before described (pp. 32. and 131.). Mucous The mucous membrane that lines the nasal fossae is called oTthe the pituitary or Schneiderian membrane. It is continuous with the integument at the nostrils, and with the membrane lining the pharynx through the posterior nares: moreover, it is also continuous, by means of the openings into the meatuses, with that of the ear and eyeball, and with the lining membrane of the different sinuses, viz. frontal, eth- moidal, sphenoidal, and maxillary. Differs In the lower region of the nose, where chiefly the air gy bones passes to the lungs, the membrane is thick, and closely sinuses, united to the subjacent periosteum and perichondrium, and on the margins of the spongy bones it is projected somewhat by the large submucous vessels, so as to increase the extent of surface; but in the canals and sinuses it is very thin. Near the nostril it is furnished with papillas, and small hairs Some fo- (vibrissas). The foramina in the dry bones, that transmit closed, nerves or vessels, are entirely closed by the membrane, viz. anterior palatine, spheno-palatine, and the holes in the cri- others briform plate ; and the apertures, that lead to the sinuses Xhedby an^ the orbit, are much diminished by the lining they lt' receive : the membrane is stretched over the opening of the ductus ad nasum, and in it is a small aperture. From the close connection of the mucous membrane with the perios- teum, the lining membrane of the nose is sometimes called a fibro-mucous membrane. tureTof ^ne sur^ace *s covered by the apertures of muciparous |^nds_ glands, which are in greatest abundance, and of largest size, theiium. about the middle and posterior parts of the nasal fossae. In the lower part of the nose, and in the sinuses, its epithelium is of the columnar ciliated kind, which becomes laminated or143 OLFACTORY REGION AND NERVE. scaly near the nostrils; but in the upper part it has special characters. Olfactory region*—This is the part of the nose in which oifac the olfactory nerve is distributed, and is therefore the seat of region, the sense of smell. In this spot the mucous lining differs in character from that in the lower portion of the nose. This region is situate at the top of the nose, and is con- Limits, fined to the piece of the roof formed by the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone ; to that part of the outer wall con- structed by the upper, and the fore part of the middle spongy bone; and to a corresponding extent of the septum, viz. about one-third. The epithelium of the mucous lining covering this region Epithe- is of a brownish tint, is laminar, and is composed of many strata ; and the glands of the part resemble those of ordinary glands, sweat glands in their position, and in the length and struc- ture of the tubes. Dissection.—By the time the student has arrived at this Dissec- stage of the dissection, little will be seen of the distribution nerves of the olfactory nerve. If the septum nasi be removed, so seis.ves" as to leave entire the membrane covering it on the opposite side (the left), the filaments of the nerve will appear on the surface, near the cribriform plate. On the membrane, too, near the front of the septum, is a branch of the nasal nerve. At the same time, the naso-palatine nerve and artery may be seen lower down, being directed from behind forwards, towards the anterior palatine canal. By cutting through the anterior part of the membrane, that has been detached from the septum, other branches of the olfactory nerve may be traced along the outer wall of the nasal fossa. The olfactory nerve forms a bulb on the cribriform oifac- plate of the ethmoid bone, from which branches descend to ISe the olfactory region of the nose through the apertures in that bone. These branches are about twenty in number, and are divisible into three sets. An inner set descend in is distri- the grooves on the septum narium, and branching, extend th£d of on its upper third. A middle set is confined to the roof of the'roof the nose. And an external set is distributed on the two and two * This region has been specially described in the third part of the Physiological Anatomy of Dr. Todd and Mr. Bowman.144 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. spongy upper spongy bones, and on the flat surface of the ethmoid bone in front of them. As the branches of the olfactory nerve leave the skull, they receive tubes from the dura mater and pia mater, which are lost in the tissue to which the nerves are distributed. The nerves ramify in the pitui- tary membrane, and form tufts of filaments that communicate freely with the contiguous twigs, forming a network, but their mode of termination in the tissue is unknown. struc- The olfactory nerve differs in structure from the other cranial nerves ; its branches are deficient in the white sub- stance of Schwann, are not divisible into fibrillar, and are nucleated and granular in texture. They resemble the gelatinous fibres in appearance, and seem to be formed of an extension of the nervous matter of the olfactory bulb. — (Todd and Bowman.) The other branches of the nerves, and the vessels, which are found in the nose, will be described in the following section. Section XIV. SPHENOPALATINE AND OTIC GANGLIA, FACIAL AND NASAL NERVES, AND BRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. Branch- Branches of Meckel's ganglion. — From the ganglion of Meckd's Meckel in the spheno-maxillary fossa, branches are furnished ISon; to the nose through the spheno-palatine foramen, to the palate through the canals of the same name, and to the facial nerve along the vidian canal. The position of these several nerves may first be ascertained by examining their apertures of transmission in the skull, seek Dissection,—The branches of the ganglion that enter the toathehes nose may be found on the left part of the sawn skull, by nose' seeking them opposite the spheno-palatine foramen, through which they enter the nasal fossa with corresponding arteries. One of these nerves (naso-palatine), before referred to as lying in the membrane of the septum, is to be isolated from the pituitary membrane, and followed forwards to where it enters the floor of the nose. Branches of the internal max- illary artery accompany the nerves, and are to be dissected with them.SPHENOPALATINE GANGLION. 145 To lay bare the nerves that descend to the palate, the branches n , n ... to the posterior part of the piece of mucous membrane that has palate, been separated from the septum of the nose, as well as that lining the posterior part of the nasal fossa behind the spongy bones, should be taken away. After this has been removed, the palatine nerves and vessels will be seen through the thin ascending plate of the palate bone, and will be readily reached by breaking through the bone with a chisel, After- wards, the tube of membrane that contains the vessels and nerves is to be opened, and these are to be followed down to the soft palate and roof of the mouth, and then onwards to- wards the incisor teeth. The palatine nerves will lead up- body of wards to the ganglion, which is close to the body of the giion; sphenoid bone. But to bring the ganglion fully into view, it will be necessary to saw through the projecting part of the sphenoid bone, to cut away pieces of the bones surrounding the hollow in which it lies, and to remove with care the enveloping fat and the periosteum. The ganglion may be then seen to be a small reddish-looking body, from which the vidian nerve passes backwards. To trace backwards the vidian branch to the carotid plexus vidian nerve. and the facial nerve, the student must lay open the canal which contains it in the root of the pterygoid process; and in doing this he must be careful of a small pharyngeal branch of nerve and artery that are superficial to the vidian, and lie in the pterygo-palatine canal. At the back of the pterygoid canal, a small branch from the vidian to the carotid plexus is to be looked for. Lastly, the vidian nerve is to be followed into the skull by cutting away the point of the petrous part of the temporal bone, and the internal carotid artery; and is to be pursued on the surface of the temporal bone, beneath the ganglion of the fifth nerve, to the hiatus Fallopii. Its junction with the facial nerve will be seen with the dissection of that nerve. It is rather a troublesome task to trace the nerve through the cartilage in the foramen lacerum medium (basis cranii). The SPHENOPALATINE GANGLION (ganglion of Meckel) Gan- occupies the spheno-maxillary fossa, close to the spheno- Meckel, palatine foramen, and is connected with the palatine branches of the superior maxillary nerve. The ganglionic situa-DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 146 con- mass is somewhat triangular in form, and of a greyish colour, nection ^ situa£ej for mos^ part? behind the branches of the palatine superior maxillary nerve to the palate, so as to surround es. " only part of their fibres ; and it is prolonged posteriorly into struc- the vidian nerve. Meckel's ganglion resembles the other ture* ganglionic masses of the fifth nerve in having sensory, motor, and sympathetic offsets or roots connected with it, and in this wise: — its sensory nerve fibres come from the fifth nerve, its motor fibres from the facial nerve through the vidian branch, and its sympathetic fibres are continued from the carotid plexus in the sheath of the vidian. Branch- The Branches of the ganglion are directed upwards to the eb given . downWards to the mouth; inwards to the nose; and backwards to the pharynx, and to the facial and sympathetic nerves. to the Branches to the orbit, — These are two or three in number, which ascend through the spheno-maxillary fissure, and end in the periosteum. It will be necessary to cut through the sphenoid bone to follow these nerves to their termination. to the Branches to the 'palate, — The nerves of the palate, though connected in part with the ganglionic mass, are the continua- tion of the spheno-palatine branches of the superior maxillary are nerve (p. 105.). Below the ganglion they are divided into three palatine nerves (large, small, and external), which are distributed to the roof of the mouth, the soft palate and tonsil, and the lining membrane of the nose. Large a. The large palatine nerve (anterior) reaches the roof of the mouth through the largest palatine canal, and extends forwards nearly to has the incisor teeth, where it joins the naso-palatine nerve. Whilst esto*" m its canal, the nerve furnishes two or more filaments {inferior nose, nasal) to the membrane on the middle and lower spongy bones; and, in the roof of the mouth, it supplies the mucous membrane and glands, as well as an offset to the soft palate, small, b. The small palatine nerve (posterior) lies in the smaller canal, and ends inferiorly in the soft palate and the levator palati muscle ; it also supplies the uvula and tonsil, external c. The external palatine nerve is smaller than the other two, and paiatme. descends m ^he canai 0f the same name. Leaving the canal, the nerve is distributed to the velum palati and the tonsil. Nasal Branches to the nose.—The nasal branches, from three to branches j^^g^ are fQr ^e mogt parfc very small and Soft, and pass inwards through the spheno-palatine foramen. OneSPHENOPALATINE GANGLION. 147 of these is the nasopalatine nerve. Their distribution is mentioned below. a. The superior nasal branches (anterior) are distributed in the Superior mucous membrane on the two upper spongy bones, and a few fila- ments reach the back part of the septum narium. b. The naso-palatine nerve (nerve of Cotunnius) crosses the roof Naso- ii • n i i i • Palatine- of the nasal fossa to reach the septum nasi, and] descends on this partition to near the front. The nerve now enters a special canal, by the side of the septum, that of the left side of the body being anterior to the other, and is conveyed to the roof of the mouth, where it lies in the centre of the anterior palatine foramen. Finally, the nerves of opposite sides are united in the mouth, and are distributed in the mucous membrane behind the incisor teeth ; at their distribution they are connected with the great palatine nerves. On the septum narium, filaments are supplied by the naso-palatine nerve to the mucous membrane. To follow the nerve to its termination, the canal in the roof of the mouth ought to be opened. The posterior branches are two: a pharyngeal branch, Branch- and the vidian nerve. wards are a. The pharyngeal branch is very small, and is directed through to pha- the pterygopalatine canal to the mucous membrane of the pharynx ryux near the Eustachian tube, in which it ends. b. The vidian nerve passes backwards through the vidian canal, and the and sends some small filaments, through the bone, to the membrane and of the back part of the roof of the nose (upper posterior nasal t^Ttfc ~ branches). At its exit from the canal, the nerve furnishes a soft f^oueh reddish offset (carotid branch) to join the sympathetic on the outer ^nvi"' side of the carotid artery. The continuation of the nerve enters the cranium through the cartilaginous substance closing the fora- men lacerum medium (basis cranii), and is directed backwards in a groove on the surface of the petrous part of the temporal bone, where it takes the name of large superficial petrosal nerve. Lastly it is continued through the hiatus Fallopii, to join the gangliform enlargement on the facial nerve. Whilst in the temporal bone, the vidian receives a twig from the tympanic nerve. The vidian nerve may be considered to consist of motor and Vidian sympathetic fibres in the same sheath, which may be combined pound here in the same manner as in the connecting branches between nerve- the sympathetic and spinal nerves. Directions. — The student may now direct his attention to the remaining nerves and vessels that are distributed in the nasal cavity. Dissection. — The nasal nerve is to be sought in the nose ° othe l 2148 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. nerves behind the nasal bone, by gently detaching the lining mem- seisof brane, after having cut off the projecting bone. A branch nose. is given from the nerve to the septum, but probably this and the trunk of the nerve will be seen but imperfectly in the present condition of the part. The terminal branches of the internal maxillary artery and vein in the spheno-maxillary fossa are to be completely traced out. Nasal The nasal nerve (of the ophthalmic) has already been seen nerve m v ... in the orbit and skull, and at its termination in the face (p. 47.); and the part that connects the two through the lies be- nose is now to be learned. Entering the nasal fossa by an neath nasal aperture in the front of the ethmoid bone, the nerve gives a bone; . gives branch to the septum narium, and is then continued in a groove behind the os nasi to the lower margin of that bone, where it escapes to the surface of the nose. branch Branches. — The branch to the septum divides into filaments that to sep- . ■* turn ramify on the anterior part of that partition, and reach nearly to the lower part. and to One or two filaments are likewise furnished by the nerve to the wan. fore part of the outer wall of the nasal fossa; these extend as low as the inferior spongy bone. Branch- Terminal branches of the internal maxillary artery. — es of in- J 99 ternai The branches of the artery in the spheno-maxillary fossa, iary ar- which have not been hitherto seen, are the following: — teryare , . . . . . superior palatine, naso-palatme, pterygo-palatine, and vidian. palatine 1. The superior or descending palatine is the largest branch of the artery in the fossa, and accompanies the large palatine nerve in its canal. Arrived at the palate, the vessel is directed forwards in the roof of the mouth, and anastomoses, behind the incisor teeth, with the artery of the opposite side, and with a branch that descends from the nose through the anterior palatine canal. In its course the urtery supplies branches to the other palatine canals, which pass with the contained nerves to the soft palate and tonsil; and some offsets are furnished to the lining membrane of the nose. In the roof of the mouth the mucous membrane, glands, and gums, receive their branches from this artery. nasal 2. The nasal or spheno-palatine artery enters the nose through es, the spheno-palatine foramen, and divides into branches : —- Some of these are distributed on the spongy bones and the outer wall of the nasal fossa, and supply offsets to the membrane lining the pos- one to terior ethmoid cells. One long branch, artery of the septum (art. nasi,Um naso-palatina), runs on the partition between the nostrils to the anterior palatine canal, through which it anastomoses with theFACIAL NERVE IN THE BONE. 149 L 3 superior palatine in the roof of the mouth. This branch accom- panies the naso-palatine nerve, and covers the septum with nu- merous ramifications. 3. The pterygo-palatine is a very small branch, which, passing pterygo- backwards through the canal of the same name, is distributed to branch^ the Eustachian tube and the lining membrane of the pharynx. 4. The vidian or pterygoid branch is contained in the vidian vidian canal with the nerve of the same name, and, escaped from the branch* canal, ends on the upper part of the Eustachian tube and the pharynx. Some other small nasal arteries are furnished by the anterior and Other posterior ethmoidal branches of the ophthalmic (p. 49.), and by teries. the facial artery near the nostril. Veins.—The veins corresponding to the terminal branches Veins; of the internal maxillary artery unite in the sphenomaxil- lary fossa in the alveolar plexus. Into this plexus offsets alveolar are received from the pterygoid plexus and the infra-orbital plexus* vein ; and from it a large trunk (alveolar, anterior internal maxillary vein) is directed forwards below the malar bone to join the facial vein (p. 30.). Beneath the mucous membrane of the nose these vessels have a plexiform arrangement, which is particularly large over the free margin of the spongy bones. Facial nerve in the temporal bone.—The nerve winds Facial nerve. through the petrous part of the temporal bone, where it is followed with difficulty, in consequence of the extreme den- sity of the bone, and the absence of marks on the surface to indicate its position. To render this dissection easier, the student should be provided with a temporal bone, in which the course of the facial nerve and the cavity of the tympanum are displayed. Dissection.—The examination of the nerve is to be begun Dissec- at the stylo-mastoid foramen, and to be traced inwards from nerve in that point. With this view, the side of the skull should be sawn through between the meatus externus and the anterior border of the mastoid process, so as to open the posterior part of the aqueduct of Fallopius. The nerve will then be seen entering deeply into the substance of the temporal bone; and it will be readily followed if the dissector cuts away with the bone forceps all the bone projecting above it. In this last step, the cavity of the tympanum will be more or less opened, and the chain of bones in it exposed. TheDISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 150 nerve is now to be traced onwards along the inner side of the tympanum, till it becomes enlarged, and bends suddenly inwards to the meatus auditorius internus. The surround- ing bone is to be removed from the enlargement on the nerve, so as to trace to it the petrosal nerves; and then the meatus auditorius is to be laid open, to see the facial and auditory nerves in that hollow, of The course of the chorda tympani nerve (branch of the tympa- facial) across the tympanum will be seen by the removal of the incus. The nerve may also be traced through the wall of the cavity behind, as well as out of the cavity in front. and The remaining branches of the facial nerve in the bone branch- are very minute, and are not to be seen, unless on a fresh piece of the skull, which has been softened in acid, The student may therefore omit all the paragraphs, marked with an asterisk, till he is able to obtain a part on which a careful examination can be made. Facial The facial nerve has been seen, in the base of the skull, to nerve enter the internal auditory meatus with the auditory nerve, with which it is connected. The nerve is then received into the aperture of the aqueduct of Fallopius in the bottom of winds the meatus, and is conducted through the temporal bone to temporal the stylo-mastoid foramen and the face (p. 40.). In its ser- bone' pentine course through the bone, the nerve is first directed outwards to the inner wall of the tympanum : at that spot it is mark- suddenly bends backwards, and is marked by a gangliform swelling swelling (intumescentia gangliformis) to which several nerves receives are united. From this swelling the nerve is continued twigs, through the arched aqueduct, passing along the inner wall of the tympanum, and then behind that cavity to the aperture of exit from the bone. The branches of the nerve in the bone serve for the most part to connect it with other nerves ; but one supplies the tongue, and another the stapedius muscle. Branch- Connecting branches. — These branches communicate with ing the auditory and glosso-pharyngeal nerves; also with two nerve trunks, (superior and inferior maxillary) of the fifth nerve, to audi- * a. Union with the auditory nerve. — In the bottom of the meatus nerve, the facial and auditory nerves are connected by one or two minute filaments. tosu- * b. Connecting branches of the gangliform enlargement — The151 OTIC GANGLION. L 4 swelling of the facial nerve receives three small twigs. One in perior front is the large superficial petrosal nerve (vidian) ; another is the u^y*1" small superficial petrosal of the tympanic nerve ; and the third is ^^j"d the external superficial petrosal, which is derived from the sym- JJJJPf" pathetic on the middle meningeal artery. c. Chorda tympani. — This long but slender branch of the facial to gusta- i i t • i * • • tory by nerve crosses the tympanum, and ends in the tongue. Arising chorda about a quarter of an inch from the stylo-mastoid foramen, the tympam* nerve is directed forwards to the tympanum, through a canal in the posterior boundary, and enters that cavity below the pyramid. In the cavity the nerve is directed forwards, across the handle of the malleus and the membrana tympani, to an aperture on the inner side of the Glasserian fissure, through which it leaves the tympanum. Outside the skull, the chorda tympani joins the gus- tatory nerve, and then continues along it to the submaxillary gan- glion and the tongue (p. 96.). The auditory nerve will be examined with the ear. It Audi. tory may now be seen to divide into two parts, one of which enters nerve, the cochlea, and the other the vestibule. Otic ganglion. — At this late period of the dissection, To be there is little to be seen of this ganglion, but the student a fresh should remember that it is one of the things to be examined part* in a fresh part. Its situation is on the inner aspect of the inferior maxillary nerve, close to the base of the skull, and it must therefore be arrived at from the inner side. Dissection. —Putting the part in the same position as for Dissec- the examination of Meckel's ganglion, the dissector should define the Eustachian tube and the muscles of the palate, and then take away the levator palati and the tube, using much care in removing the last. When some cellular mem- brane has been cleared away, the internal pterygoid muscle comes into view, with the trunk of the inferior maxillary nerve above it, and a small branch (internal pterygoid) descending from that nerve to the surface of the muscle. If this branch of nerve to the pterygoid muscle be taken as a guide, it will lead to the ganglion. * To complete the dissection, saw vertically through the To de- petrous part of the temporal bone, a little nearer the middle gan- line than the inner wall of the tympanum, the bone being ghon supported whilst it is divided. Taking off now some mem- and its brane that covers the ganglion, the student may follow es. backwards a small branch to the tensor tympani muscle, but152 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. ture. he must previously open the small fissure that contains the muscle, by entering it from below through the carotid canal. Above this small branch is another minute nerve (small superficial petrosal nerve), that issues from the skull, and joins the back of the ganglion. A small twig is to be sought from the front of the ganglion to the tensor palati muscle, and another, near the same spot, to join the sympa- thetic nerve on the middle meningeal artery, otic The otic ganglion (gang, auriculare, Arnold) resembles ganglion ^ gangiia connected with the fifth nerve. It is a s'de of small reddish body, which is situate on the inner aspect of maxii- the inferior maxillary nerve, close to the skull, and surrounds lary* the origin of the nerve to the internal pterygoid muscle. By its inner surface the ganglion is in contact with the Eustachian tube, and at a little distance behind is seen the struc- middle meningeal artery. In this ganglion, as in the others above referred to, filaments from motor, sensory, and sympa- thetic nerves are blended. Some twigs are furnished by it to muscles. Branch- * a. Connecting branches — roots. — The ganglion is joined by a it with fasciculus from the motor part of the inferior maxillary nerve, and fifth' is closely united with the nerve to the internal pterygoid muscle, thus receiving two of its roots, motor and sensory, from the fifth sympa- nerve. Its connection with the sympathetic is established by a thetic, ... . . twig, that is received from the plexus on the middle meningeal and tym- artery. Further, the ganglion is connected with the tympanic nerves, nerve by means of the small superficial petrosal nerve, that joins the posterior part. other * b. Branches to muscles. — Two muscles receive their nerves eriterheS from the otic ganglion, viz. tensor tympani and circumflexus palati. muscles, nerve to the tensor tympani is directed backwards, and enters the bony canal that contains that muscle. The branch for the circumflexus, arising from the front of the ganglion, may be sup- posed to be derived from the internal pterygoid nerve. Nerve of The nerve of the internal pterygoid muscle is a long slen- ptery- der branch, that arises from the inner side of the inferior g°ld* maxillary nerve near the skull, and is directed downwards to the deep surface of the muscle. This nerve is joined by a fasciculus from the motor part of the fifth nerve. Directions. — The dissection of the left pterygo-maxillary region may be again repeated on this side of the body.THE TONGUE. 153 Section XV. DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. Directions. — The tongue and larynx are to remain con- nected whilst the student learns the general form, and the structure of the first. Dissection^—The ends of the extrinsic lingual muscles Dissec- that have been detached, may be cut off, but enough of each should be left to trace it afterwards into the substance of the tongue. The tongue occupies the floor of the mouth, and is rather Tongue, ovoidal in shape, with the larger end turned backwards. It is free over the greater part of the surface; but at the situa- hinder part, and at the posterior two-thirds of the under f0rm?nd surface, it gives attachment to the muscles and the mucous membrane that fix it to the parts around. The apex or tip of the tongue is in contact with the incisor connec- teeth; and the base, which looks towards the pharynx, IS apex, attached to the hyoid bone, and is likewise connected with base" the epiglottis by three folds of mucous membrane — a central and two lateral. The upper surface or dorsum of the tongue Upper is somewhat convex, and is received into the hollow of the roof of the mouth; in the anterior two-thirds it is divided into two equal parts by a median groove, which ends a little in front of a hollow named foramen caecum. This aspect is rough and covered with papillae over the anterior two thirds; but is smoother at the posterior third, though even here the surface is irregular, in consequence of projecting muciparous glands. The under surface, free only in part, gives attach- Under ment to the mucous membrane, and to the different lingual muscles that are connected with the hyoid bone and the jaw; and in front of these muscles is the fold of the mucous membrane named frsenum linguae. The borders of the Borders, tongue are thick and round at the base of the organ, where they are marked by vertical ridges and furrows, but gradually become thinner near the apex. Papillce. — On the dorsum of the tongue are the following Kinds of kinds of papillae ; the conical and filiform, the fungiform, and the caliciform.DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. 154 conical The conical and filiform papillae are the numerous small form, ^ projections, like the villi on the mucous membrane of the small intestine, that cover the anterior two thirds of the situation dorsum of the tongue. Some of the papillae (conical) are die of wider at their attached than at their free end, and these tongue; are most developed over the central part of the tongue. Others become longer (filiform), especially towards the sides of the tongue. These small papillae are covered with secon- dary minute hair-like processes ; and towards their limit be- hind, as well as on the side of the tongue, they have a linear arrangement, mngi- The fungiform papillae are less numerous but larger than the preceding set, amongst which they are scattered. They are wider at the free end, than at the part fixed to the mostly tongue, and they project beyond the other set ; they are and mostly situate at the tip and sides of the tongue. The free sides; m r ■ . . or larger end is covered with small filamentous projections, caiici- The caliciform (papillae vallatae) are fewer in number and near'f larger than the others, and are placed at the junction of the tongue; two anterior, with the posterior third of the tongue. Their number varies from eight to ten. These papillae extend across the tongue in a line resembling the letter V. Each form papilla consists of a central truncated part of a conical form, which is surrounded by a fold of the mucous membrane. Its wider part or base projects above the surface, whilst the is mark- apex is attached to the tongue. Both the papilla and the other surrounding fold are furnished with smaller secondary papillae papillae. second- Minute simple papillae exist in the part of the tongue be- piUae.a hind the caliciform kind; but they cannot be observed till the epithelium is removed.*— (Todd and Bowman.) struc- Structure of the papillce. — The simple papillae are con- papiike. structed like those of the skin, viz. of a projecting cone of of sim- formative membrane, which is covered by epithelium, and filled with a loop of the capillaries, and a loop of a nerve, of com- The three other compound forms of the papillae may be said to be formed by aggregations of the simple kind. Thus * These same papillae are said, by Mr. Salter, to occupy " the whole of the under surface of the free portion of the tongue."— Cyclop, of Anatomy; art. Tongue.155 STRUCTURE OF THE TONGUE. the common papillary elevation of limiting membrane is covered with smaller eminences, and each has its separate investment of epithelium, by which the brush-like appearance on the surface is produced. In the interior of the papilla the capillary vessels form a plexus, which furnishes a looped offset to each smaller* papillary projection; whilst the en- tering nerve sends offsets to the different subdivisions of the papilla, whose mode of ending in each is unknown, though Kolliker thinks he has seen it in the form of a loop, like that of the vessels. Structure. — The tongue consists of two symmetrical Parts _ i . . found in halves, and separating them is a fibrous structure in the tongue, middle line. Each half is made up of a mass of muscular fibre with interspersed fat; and entering it are the lingual vessels and nerves. The whole tongue is enveloped by the mucous membrane, and a special fibrous membrane attaches it to the hyoid bone. Dissection.—By the time the student has arrived at this Tongue' J best seen stage, the muscular fibres may have lost their colour; but, °!^resh with a fresh part, the facts here stated can be easily ascer- tained. To define the septum, and the membrane attaching the Define , . septum; tongue to the hyoid bone, the tongue is to be placed on its dorsum, and, the remains of the mylo and genio-hyoideus having been removed, the genio-hyo-glossi muscles are to be cleaned, and drawn from one another along the middle line. After separating these muscles, except in front, and cutting across their intercommunicating fibres, the edge of the sep- tum will appear; and by tracing then the hinder fibres of hyo- the two muscles towards the os hyoides, the hyo-glossal mem- brane membrane will be arrived at; but the membrane will be more completely denuded by cutting through the anterior fibres of the left hyo-glossus. At the front of the tongue the genio-hyo-glossus will be afterwards followed out. Outside this triangular muscle, in the middle line, is the and longitudinal bundle of the inferior lingualis, which may be IFngua- cleaned on the left side, though it will subsequently be better hs* seen on the right half. Fibrous tissue. — Along the middle line of the tongue is a Fibrous thin lamina of this tissue, forming a septum; at the root, IS tures in another fibrous structure, named the hyo-glossal membrane;tonsue •DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. 156 and covering the organ, for the greater part, is a submucous layer of the same tissue. its a. Septum. — This fibrous structure forms a vertical par- septum. ■* A tition between the two halves of the tongue, and extends from the base to the apex. It is stronger posteriorly than anteriorly, and is connected behind with the hyo-glossal membrane. To each side the transverse muscle is connected. Its disposition may be better seen, subsequently, on a ver- tical section. Hyo- h. The hyo-glossal membrane is a thin, but strong fibrous glossal . © brane lamina> that attaches the root of the tongue to the upper border of the body of the hyoid bone. On its under or an- terior surface the hinder fibres of the genio-hyo-glossi are collected, as if this was their aponeurosis to attach them to the os hyoides. Sub- c. The submucous fibrous or aponeurotic stratum of aponeu- the tongue invests the organ, and is continued into the rosis* sheaths of the muscles. Over the posterior third of the dorsum its strength is greater than elsewhere, and, in front of the epiglottis, it forms bands in the folds of the mucous membrane in this position. Into it the muscular fibres, that end on the surface of the tongue, are inserted. Muscles Muscles.—Each half of the tongue is made up of ex- ?afffch trinsic and intrinsic muscles. The former are distinguished Two by having only their termination in the tongue; and the kinds. latter, by having both origin and insertion within the organ, that is to say springing from one part, and ending at another. Extrin- A. The extrinsic muscles are the following, viz., palato number, and stylo-glossus, hyo and genio-hyo-glossus, and pharyngeo- glossus. Only the lingual endings of these are now to be noticed, for the origin from the bones around have been before made out. Dissec- Dissection.—After the tongue has been firmly fastened on tion of .j.g ^e extrinsic muscles may be dissected on the paiato right half. Three of these muscles, viz. palato, stylo, and stylo- hyo-glossus, come together to the side of the tongue, at the giossus. junctjon 0f middle and posterior third; and, to follow their radiating fibres forwards, it will be necessary to remove the mucous membrane from the dorsum and the under sur- face, between the tip and the point at which they come in157 EXTRINSIC LINGUAL MUSCLES. contact with the border. On the dorsum of the tongue a thin muscular stratum, that is superficial to these fibres, is to be taken away with the mucous membrane; and beneath the tip, a junction between the stylo-glossus muscles of opposite sides is to be traced. Only the two parts of the hyo-glossus (basio and cerato- ofhyo- J r J ° v glossus; glossus, p. 99.), that arise from the body and great wing of the hyoid bone, are referred to above. To lay bare its third part, or the chondro-glossus, the other two portions of the muscle must be cut through with the lingual vessels, and raised, and shown entering the tongue. The origin of this small muscular slip, two to three lines in width, can now be seen close to the small cornu of the os hyoides, but it is con- cealed farther by some fibres of the genio-lryo-glossus that ascend to the upper constrictor ; and its radiation, near the upper surface of the tongue, will be prepared by taking the mucous membrane, and the thin underlying muscular stra- tum, from the remaining third of the dorsum. The part of the constrictor muscle that is attached to the Of con- 1 strictor tongue, and the ending of the genio-hyo-glossus, come into muscle, view through the division of the hyo-glossus. The Potato and Stylo-glossus are partly combined at their Com- attachment to the lateral part of the tongue, and form, paiato together with the following muscle, an expansion that covers styio- the three anterior fourths of the dorsum, beneath the super- position ficial lingualis. In this muscular stratum the fibres radiate Stent, from the point of contact of the muscles with the tongue, Fibres. some passing almost horizontally inwards to the centre, and others obliquely forwards to the tip of the organ. A great portion of the stylo-glossus is directed along the ^st of side of the tongue, and some fibres are inclined to the under g^ssus surface, in front of the hyo-glossus, to join those of the oppo-joins site muscle beneath the tip. Hyo-glossus.—The two superficial parts of the muscle Hyo- (basio and cerato-glossus, p. 99.) enter the under surface ofglossus' the tongue, between the stylo-glossus and the lingualis. J^Jf" After entering the lower surface by separate bundles, they ?arts s are bent round the margin of the tongue, and then form, mode of with the two preceding muscles, a stratum on the dorsum,endmg- whose disposition and extent have been before stated. The third part of the muscle, or the chondro-qhssus* is Deeper r 7 v 9 part orDISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. 158 chondro distinct from the rest at its origin, and is separated from globus, tkem higher up by a slip of the genio-hyo-glossus, and by the lingual vessels. About two or three lines wide at its origin, origin from the root of the small cornu, and from part of the connec- body of the os hyoides, the muscle is directed upwards and forwards to the root of the tongue beneath the hinder fibres ending from the genio-hyo-glossus. In entering the tongue, the tongue, fibres spread out, beneath the upper lingualis, obliquely in- wards and forwards over the posterior third of the dorsum, and extend as far as the hyo-glossus, with which they be- come blended. Muscu- Cortex of the tongue. — The muscles above described, to- iortex of gether with the superficial lingualis, constitute a cortical tongue. jayer 0f oblique and longitudinal fibres, that covers the tongue, except below, where some muscles are placed, and resembles " a slipper turned upside down." * This stratum is pierced by deeper fibres. Ar_ The genio-hyo-glossus enters the tongue vertically on the menun sm<e °f the septum, and perforates its cortical covering to tongue; en^ i*1 the submucous tissue. In the tongue the fibres spread like the ribs of a fan from apex to base, and are col- lected into laminas as they pass through the transversalis. itsposte- The most posterior fibres end on the hyo-glossal membrane, fibres, and a slip is continued from that part, beneath the hyo- glossus, to the upper constrictor of the pharynx. A vertical section, at a future stage, will show the radiation of its fibres. Con. The pharyngeo-glossus (glosso pharyngeus), or the part of atrthe°r tne upper constrictor attached to the side of the tongue, tongue, passes amongst fibres of the stylo and hyo-glossus, and en- how tering into the lingual substance, is continued with the transverse muscle to the septum. Number B. The intrinsic muscles are three in number in each half names of the tongue, viz. a transverse, and a superior and an in- of those, n • T i • tenor lingualis. First Dissection. — To complete the preparation of the inferior p^e lingualis, on the right side, the fibres of the stylo-glossus inferior, * This apt simile has been used by Mr. Zaglas in an accurate paper on the muscular structure cf the tongue. See Annuals of Anatomy and Physiology, Part I., by Mr. Goodsir. Edin.159 INTRINSIC LINGUAL MUSCLES. covering it in front, and those of the genio-hyo-glossus over it behind, are to be cut through. The superior lingualis then may be shown, on the left side, by taking only the mucous jjjj-^ membrane from the upper surface from tip to base. The then transversalis may be laid bare, on the right side, by cutting versa- away, on the upper aspect, the stratum of the extrinsic muscles already seen, and on the lower aspect, the inferior lingualis and the genio-hyo-glossus. The nerves for the supply of the tongue should be traced Trace on the left half, as well as the part will admit; but a sepa- nerves, rate recent part would be required to follow these satis- factorily. The transversalts muscle forms an almost horizontal par- This is tition, that reaches from the base to the apex of the tongue, zontai. The fibres are attached internally to the side of the septum, Attach- and are thence directed outwards, the posterior being some- ments* what curved, to their insertion into the side of the tongue. Its fibres are collected into vertical plates, so as to allow the Fibres, passage of the ascending fibres between them. The superior lingualis (Noto-glossus of Zaglas*) is a thin This is layer of oblique and longitudinal fibres, close beneath the nciaT." submucous tissue on the dorsum of the tongue. Its fibres origin, arise from the fascia along the middle line, and from the frssnum epiglottidis; from this attachment they are directed Fibres, obliquely outwards, the anterior becoming longitudinal, to the margin of the tongue, at which they end like they began. This is the most superficial lingual muscle, and assists in Ending, forming the cortex. The inferior lingualis is much stronger than the preceding. Position and is placed below the tongue, between the hyo and genio- tongue, hyo-glossus. The muscle arises posteriorly from the fascia origin, on the dorsum, near the root of the tongue f ; and the fibres are collected into a roundish bundle in the position before noted. From its attached surface bundles are continued Ending, vertically through the transverse fibres upwards to the dor- sum ; and at the anterior third of the tongue, where the muscle is overlaid by the stylo-glossus, some of its fibres are applied to that muscle, and distributed with them. * The description given by this author I find more correct than that of others. f The fibres are sometimes continuous with the small chondro-glossus.160 DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. Perpen- Some perpendicular fibres, distinct from those of the genio-hyo- fibres, glossus, are said by anatomists to occupy more or less of the middle line of the tongue. A few of these appear to be present in the apex of the tongue, where they pass from the upper to the where lower surface, and give transit to the fasciculi of the transverse present. , muscle. Mucous ^ne mucous membrane is a continuation of that lining the brane- mouth, an^ is provided with a laminar epithelium : partly investing the tongue, it is reflected off at different points in the form of folds (p. 137.). At the epiglottis are three small glosso-epiglottid folds, connecting this to the root of the tongue, the central one of which is called the fraenum of the its epi- epiglottis. Like the membrane of the mouth, it is furnished theimm numerous muciparous glands, and some follicles. i\c\el°'~ f°^c^es occupy the dorsum of the tongue, between the papillae vallatae and the epiglottis, where they form a continuous stratum, some projecting under the mucous membrane. and The glands (lingual) are compound in structure, similar the^ase1 to t^lose °f tne ^Ps an(^ cheek, and are placed beneath the mucous membrane and follicles covering the posterior third of the dorsum of the tongue. A few are found in front of the caliciform papillae, where they project into the muscular substance. Some ducts open on the surface, and others into the hollows around the large papillae, or even into the fora- men caecum. Opposite the papillae vallatae, at the margin of the tongue, is another small collection of submucous glands, and be. '.Under the tip of the tongue, on each side of the fraenum, is tip! a collection of the same kind of glands, from which several ducts issue. Nerves Nerves.— There are three nerves distributed in each three half of the tongue, viz. the gustatory, the hypo-glossal, and sources, the glossopharyngeal, gusta- The gustatory nerve gives upwards filaments to the muscular tory' substance, and to the two smallest sets of papillae, conical and fungi- ninth, form; it also joins the hypo-glossal nerve. The hypo-glossal nerve is spent in long slender filaments that are furnished to the mus- andgios-cular substance of the tongue. The glossopharyngeal nerve ryngeai. divides into two branches near the border of the tongue: — One turns to the dorsum of the tongue, and ends in the mucous mem- brane behind the foramen caecum. The other passes beneath the tongue, and divides into filaments that enter the muscular sub-161 THE LARYNX. stance, and supply the papillae caliciformes, as well as the mucous membrane covering the lateral part of the tongue. Vessels. — The arteries are derived chiefly from the lingual Arteries artery of each side; these, together with the veins, have been veins. examined, p. 100. After supplying the muscular substance the vessels enter the papillae, and end as before said. Section XVI. DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. The larynx is the upper dilated part of the air tube, in outline which the voice is produced. This organ of the voice con- rynx. sists of several cartilages, which are united together by liga- mentous bands; of muscles to move the cartilages ; and of vessels and nerves. The whole is lined by mucous mem- brane. Dissection. — The tongue may now be removed from the oissec- ■ . J tiou. larynx by cutting through its root, but this is to be done without injuring the epiglottis. The parts that are now to be described would be much better seen on a fresh larynx. Occupying the middle line of the neck, the larynx is Situa- placed in front of the pharynx, and between the carotid connec- vessels. It is pyramidal in form. Its base is turned up- wards, and is attached to the hyoid bone, and to it the epi- glottis is connected; whilst its apex is directed downwards, and is continuous with the trachea. The front is prominent along the middle line of the neck; and the posterior surface-" is covered by the mucous membrane of the pharynx. The is very larynx is very moveable, and during deglutition is elevated able!e~ and depressed by the different extrinsic muscles that are connected with it and the hyoid bone. Muscles. — The special muscles of the larynx pass from six spe- one cartilage to another, and modify by their action the cies of condition of the vocal apparatus. Commonly six muscles are described, but the number is stated differently by anato - mists. Three are outside the cartilages, and three are more or less concealed by the thyroid cartilage ; most of them are in pairs, and alike on the two sides of the body. Directions, — On one side of the larynx, say the right, the muscles may be dissected, and on the opposite side the nerves MDISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 162 and vessels ; and those superficial muscles are to be first learnt, that do not require the cartilages to be cut. Dissec- Dissection. — The larynx should be first extended, and tion J 1*1 when it has been fastened in that state with pins, the dis- sector may clear away from the os hyoides and the thyroid cartilage the following extrinsic muscles, that are inserted into them, viz. the constrictor, sterno-hyoid, sterno thyroid, of the ^ and thyro-hyoid. In front, between the thyroid and cricoid set of cartilages, one of the three small external muscles, crico- muscles. thyroid, will be seen. The other two external muscles are situate at the posterior aspect of the larynx: to denude them it will be necessary to turn over the larynx, and to remove the mucous membrane covering it. On the back of the cricoid cartilage the dissector will find the crico-arytaenoi- deus posticus muscle ; and above it, on the posterior part of the arytenoid cartilages, the arytenoid muscle will appear. Crico- The crico-thyroid muscle is triangular in form, and is deus separated by an interval from the one of the opposite side. It arises from the front and lateral part of the cricoid carti- lage, and its fibres ascend, diverging from one another, to be is small, inserted into the small cornu, and into the lower border of the thyroid cartilage as far forwards as the tubercle, also, for a short distance (a line), into the inner surface of the cartilage. The muscle rests on the crico-thyroid membrane, and is concealed by the sterno-thyroid muscle. Crico- The CRICO-ARYTiENOIDEUS POSTICUS MUSCLE lies On the noideus posterior part of the cricoid cartilage. Its oriqin is from posticus ° ° the depression, on the side of the vertical ridge, at the pos- is on terior aspect of that cartilage. From this origin the fibres cricoid are directed outwards, and converge to be inserted, by fleshy iage. and tendinous fibres, into the projection at the outer part of the base of the arytsenoid cartilage. Arytffi- The aryt^noideus is a single muscle in the middle line, noideus p|ace(j ]n ^e COncavity on the posterior aspect of the arytenoid cartilages. Two sets of fibres with different deep directions are seen in the muscle. The deep fibres are verse " transverse, and are inserted into the outer border and the posterior surface of the cartilages ; they close the interval super- between the cartilages. The superficial fibres consist of two oblique oblique fasciculi, which cross like the parts of the letter X, each passing from the base of one cartilage to the apex ofMUSCLES OF THE LARYNX. 163 the other. A few of the oblique fibres of the muscle are usually continued round the cartilage to join the thyro- arytenoid muscle, or to blend with the fibres in the aryteno- epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane. Dissection. — To bring into view the remaining muscles, Dissec- ° ... tion of which are somewhat concealed by the thyroid cartilage, it internal will be necessary to remove the right half of the thyroid, by cutting through it near the middle line, after its small cornu has been detached from the cricoid cartilage. By the removal of a little cellular membrane, the dissector will de- fine inferiorly the lateral crico-arytsenoid muscle ; above it, the thyro-arytenoideus muscle; and still higher, the thin muscular fibres in the fold of mucous membrane between the epiglottis and the arytenoid cartilage. The crico-arym:noideus lateralis is a small lengthened Lateral band, which arises from the lateral part of the upper border aryta- of the cricoid cartilage ; its fibres are directed backwards to be inserted, with the thyro-arytenoid muscle, into the pro- jection on the outer side of the base of the arytenoid carti- lage, as well as into the contiguous part of the cartilage on the anterior aspect. This muscle is concealed by the crico- is be* 1 t J neath thyroideus, and its upper border is contiguous to the sue- J,^™^ ceeding muscle. The thyro-arytjenoideus muscle extends backwards in Thyro- the interior of the larynx from the thyroid to the arytenoid noideus. cartilage ; it is thick below, but thin and expanded above. The muscle arises from the thyroid cartilage near the middle line, for about the lower half of its depth, and from the crico-thyroid ligament. The fibres are directed backwards, some with different directions; the external ascend somewhat, and cend to are inserted into the upper part of the arytenoid cartilage Up' on its anterior and outer aspect; but the internal and lower others fibres are transverse, and form a thick bundle, which IS base of inserted into the anterior part of the base of that cartilage, nSd"" as well as into the anterior surface, and some fibres are lage!" attached to the vocal cord. By its outer aspect the muscle connec- is in contact with the thyroid cartilage ; and the inner sur-tlons* face rests on the vocal cords, and on the ventricle of the larynx and its pouch. The depressor of the epiglottis (reflector epiglottidis, Depres- thyro-aryteno-epiglottideus) is the thin muscular layer, epiglot- „ tis M 2DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 164 which is contained in the fold of mucous membrane bounding Rouble laterally the upper opening of the larynx. Its fibres arise, posteriorly, from the front and upper part of the arytenoid cartilage, some being continuous with the oblique fibres of the arytenoid muscle; and a fasciculus (thyro-epiglottideus)is at- tached, anteriorly, to the inner surface of the thyroid cartilage. From this origin the fibres turn upwards with very different directions, and are inserted into the border of the epiglottis, inser- Xhe strength of this muscle varies much in different bodies. tion. 0 Some of the lower fibres of this muscle, that cover the top of the laryngeal pouch, have been described by Mr. Hilton * as a separate muscle, and named compressor sacculi laryngis. Parts Parts inside the Larynx. — The laryngeal cartilages are larynx, so arranged as to enclose a space, and the parts more im- mediately concerned in the production of the voice, viz. the vocal cords, the glottis, and the ventricle of the larynx and its pouch. Dissec- Dissection, — For the purpose of displaying the vocal ap- pose paratus, let the tube of the larynx be divided along the posterior part; and in cutting through the arytenoid mus- cle, let the incision be rather to the right of the middle line, so as to avoid the nerves that enter it. On looking into the larynx a hollow (ventricle) will be seen on each side; and if a probe be passed into the ventricle it may be made to enter a small pouch by an aperture in the anterior and upper part. The dissector should fill the pouch on the right side by introducing very small, round bits of cotton wool into it. Space The laryngeal space reaches from the aperture behind Eiied^ the epiglottis to the lower border of the cricoid cartilage. At the upper part, the space that corresponds to the large interval between the ahe of the thyroid cartilage, is much produc- diminished in size by the thyro-arytenoid muscles and ing giot- ^e vocai cordSj and only a narrow interval, the glottis, is The rest left at one spot. At the lower part, however, the space re- large. mains 0f the same shape and size as the cricoid cartilage, and is therefore circular, and larger than the narrow part before alluded to. Upper The upper orifice of the larynx will be seen by placing onfice, .n contacj. surfaces of the cut along the posterior part. * See No. 5. of Guy's Hospital Reports.INTERIOR OF THE LARYNX. 165 M 3 It is triangular in shape, with the base in front and the apex shape, behind, and its sides are sloped obliquely downwards, in the antero-posterior direction. Its boundaries are, — the epi- f"0fmd.d_ glottis in front, the arytenoid muscle and cartilages behind, ries- and the arytaeno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane on each side. This aperture is closed by the epiglottis during deglutition. The glottis, or rima glottidis, is the interval between the Glottis, lower vocal cords, and is the narrowest part of the laryngeal Posltlon' cavity. Like the upper orifice, it is somewhat triangular in form, form, but its wider part is turned backwards to the arytenoid muscle. Its sides are not constructed wholly of a yielding con- struc- material, but partly of ligament, and partly of cartilage : tion, —thus, for about the anterior two thirds, is the elastic vocal cord, whilst, at the posterior third, is the smooth inner aspect of the arytenoid cartilage. The size of the interval *™ differs in the two sexes: In the male it measures, from before back, nearly an inch (about eleven lines), and across, at the base, about a third of the other measurement. In the female, the dimensions will be less by two or three lines. Alterations in the size and form affect the interval, where Changes in size. it is bounded by the cartilage, as well as by the liga- ment. In the former part, the changes are occasioned by in two the rotation of the arytenoid cartilages around their axis ; y but in the latter they are due to the lengthening or shorten- ing of the bands, or to their yielding, as in the passage of an instrument. In the living body the muscles are constantly Action producing alterations in the fissure, some acting more imme- muscles, diately on the cartilages so as to be dilators or contractors of its base, and others acting on the ligaments, and thereby elongating or shortening the sides. The base is enlarged, on base, and the interval rendered triangular by the posterior crico- arytenoid ; and is diminished by the arytenoid, the thyro- arytenoid, and the lateral crico-arytsenoid. And the sides on sides are elongated and made tense by the crico-thyroid; but shortened by the thyro-arytenoid. In inspiration the fissure is slightly larger than in expiration. The ventricle of the larynx is the oval hollow, on each side, Ventri- above the vocal cord. The upper margin of the opening g°ua_ is semilunar, and the lower is straight. On the outer sur-tion#166 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. Parts face are the fibres of the thyro-arytasnoid muscle, and in the around. . . anterior part is the aperture into the laryngeal pouch. Pouch of The laryngeal pouch (sacculus laryngis) will be best seen laiynx. ^ removing, still on the right side, the thyro-arytaenoid Form muscle, and some fibrous tissue that covers it. It is a small and po- sition, membranous sac, half an inch deep, and cylindrical in form, which projects upwards between the thyro-arytaenoid muscle and the upper thyro-arytaenoid ligament, and reaches some- times as high as the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. Its cavity communicates with the front of the ventricle by a narrow aperture, provided mostly with two folds of mucous sur- membrane. On the outer surface are numerous small glands, ing W hose ducts are transmitted through the coats of the sac to parts' the inside. Numerous nerves are distributed over the inner aspect of the sac. Its upper part is covered by the mus- cular slip before referred to (p. 164.). Dissec- Dissection,—The mucous membrane should be removed on the right side from the two whitish bands, thyro-arytaenoid ligaments, that bound the ventricle of the larynx above and below. Then the lateral crico-arytaenoid muscle, and any fibres that may remain of the thyro-arytaenoideus should be taken away. Thyro- The thyro - a rytcenoid ligaments, or the vocal cords, are nouf" two bands, on each side, which are extended from the angle nients. of the thyroid to the arytaenoid cartilage, — one forming the upper, the other the lower margin of the ventricle, — and are about seven lines long in man, and two less in the woman. Inferior a. The inferior ligament (chorda vocalis) is a band of cord elastic tissue, which is almost transverse in direction. At- tached, in front, to the angle of the thyroid cartilage, about half way down, the fibres of the ligament are directed back- ward parallel to one another, and are inserted into the ante- has these rior prominence at the base of the arytaenoid cartilage. Inter- tions?c" nally, this band is covered only by thin mucous membrane, and projects towards its fellow into the cavity of the larynx, the interval between it and the opposite one being the glottis ; externally, it is connected with the thyro-arytaenoid muscle ; and inferiorly it is continuous with the crico-thyroid mem- brane. The edge that bounds the ventricle is straight and well defined, and vibrates to produce sounds.VOCAL COEDS OF THE LARYNX. 167 M 4 b. The upper ligament (false vocal cord) is semilunar Upper ~. ,111 t t . ligament in. form, and is much weaker than the preceding one. It is fixed in front to the angle of the thyroid cartilage, near the attachment of the epiglottis; and behind to the rough ante- rior surface of the arytenoid cartilage. This ligament con- is a very tains chiefly fibrous tissue in its structure, which is con- band, tinuous with that in the arytaeno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane. The mucous membrane of the larynx is derived from that Mucous investing the pharynx, and is prolonged to the lungs through brane. the trachea. When entering the larynx it is stretched be- tween the epiglottis and the tip of the arytenoid cartilage, forming the arytaeno-epiglottidean fold on each side of the laryngeal orifice: in this part it is very loose, and the sub- mucous tissue abundant. In the larynx the membrane closely lines the cavity, sinks into the ventricle, and is prolonged into the laryngeal pouch. On the thyro-arytsenoid ligaments it is very thin and adherent, allowing these to be visible through it. A columnar ciliated epithelium covers all the surface Epithe- below the superior vocal cords, and is continued anteriorly in the adult to the root of the epiglottis (Kolliker). In the has dif- part of the larynx above the line mentioned, the epithelium nature, is of the laminar kind. Numerous muciparous glands are connected with the mu- Glands, cous membrane of the larynx ; and their orifices will be seen on the surface, especially at the posterior aspect of the epi- glottis. In the edge of the arytaeno-epiglottidean fold there is a little swelling occasioned by a mass of subjacent glands (arytenoid), and a small fibro-cartilaginous body. None exist over the vocal cord. Dissection, — The course of the laryngeal nerves in the Dissec- neck has been already traced, and their termination in the nerves, larynx may be dissected on the untouched side. For this purpose the other half of the thyroid is to be disarticulated from the cricoid cartilage, and care should be taken of the recurrent nerve, which lies near the junction between the two. The trachea and larynx should next be fastened down with pins, and after the thyroid has been drawn away from the cricoid cartilage, the inferior laryngeal nerve can be traced over the side of the latter cartilage to the muscles of theDISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 168 rent nerve larynx, and to the mucous membrane of the pharynx. After- wards the superior laryngeal is to be followed to the mucous membrane of the interior of the larynx, and to that of the pharynx. Two communications are to be found between these nerves; one is beneath the thyroid cartilage, the other in the mucous membrane of the pharynx. An artery accom- panies each nerve, and is to be dissected at the same time. Nerves Nerves. — The nerves that supply branches to the larynx, vagus, are the superior and inferior laryngeal branches of the pneumo-gastric nerve (p. 115.) ; the former is distributed to the mucous membrane, and the latter to the muscles. Recur- «• The inferior laryngeal nerve (recurrent), when about to enter the larynx, furnishes backwards an offset to the mucous mem- brane of the pharynx, which joins with filaments from the upper supplies laryngeal nerve. The nerve then passes beneath the ala of the muscles thyroid cartilage, and ends in branches for all the special muscles one?Pt of the larynx, except the crico-thyroideus. Its small muscular branches are easily followed, but that to the arytenoid muscle passes beneath the crico-arytsenoideus posticus. Beneath the thyroid cartilage this nerve is joined by a long offset of the upper laryngeal nerve. Superior b. The superior laryngeal nerve pierces the thyro-hyoid liga- lgel\~ ment, and gives offsets to the mucous membrane covering the nerve back of the larynx ; it also furnishes a long branch, beneath the joins re- ala of the thyroid cartilage, to communicate with the recurrent current, nerve> rpjie trunk of the nerve then terminates in many branches and ends for the supply of the mucous membrane : — Some of these ascend in cousU* the arytamo-epiglottidean fold of that membrane to the epiglottis, brane an(^ tne ro°* °^ ^e tongue. The others, which are the largest, descend on the inner side of the ventricular pouch, and supply the lining membrane of the larynx as low as the vocal cords. One nerve of this set pierces the arytaenoid muscle, and appears (?) to supply it. Arteries Vessels. — The arteries of the interior of the larynx are furnished from the superior and inferior thyroid branches (pp. 74. 83.). from su- cl. The laryngeal branch of the superior thyroid artery enters thyroid; tne larynx with the superior laryngeal nerve, and divides like it into ascending and descending branches ; some of these enter the muscles, but the rest supply the mucous membrane of the epiglottis, that of the root of the tongue, and that of the interior of the larynx. It anastomoses with the following artery both beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and in the mucous membrane of the pharynx.169 HYOID BONE. b. The laryngeal branch of the inferior thyroid artery ascends fr0m in- on the back of the cricoid cartilage, and supplies the mucous [h^roid membrane of the pharynx and the muscles of the larynx, like the nerve. c. Some other twigs from the inferior thyroid artery perforate two the crico-thyroid membrane, and end in the mucous lining of the sources- interior of the larynx at the lower part. Veins. — The vein, that accompanies the branch of artery Veins from the superior thyroid, joins the internal jugular or the ferentiy. superior thyroid vein ; whilst the vein, corresponding to the other artery, opens into the plexus connected with the in- ferior thyroid veins (pp. 83. 125.). Section XVII. HYOID BONE, CARTILAGES AND LIGAMENTS OF THE LARYNX, AND STRUCTURE OF THE TRACHEA. Dissection. — All the muscles and the mucous membrane Dissec- should be taken away so as to denude the hyoid bone, the tlon' cartilages of the larynx, and the epiglottis; but the piece of membrane that joins the hyoid bone to the thyroid cartilage, and the ligaments uniting one cartilage to another, should be left with care. In the arytasno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane, a small fibrocartilaginous body (cuneiform car- tilage) should be sought. The hyoid bone (os hyoides) is situate between the larynx Hyoid and the root of the tongue. Resembling the letter U, placed Forn^ horizontally and with the legs turned backwards, it offers for examination a central part or body, and two side pieces or cornua. The body is flattened, and measures most in the vertical Body of direction. Convex in front, where it is marked by a tubercle, it presents an uneven surface for the attachment of muscles ; whilst on the opposite aspect it is concave. To the upper border, the fibrous membrane (hyo-glossal) fixing the tongue is attached. The cornua are two in number on each side (large and side small). The large cornu continues the bone backwards, and is far-f' joined to the body of the os hyoides by a surface covered with cartilage. The surfaces of this cornu look somewhat upwardsDISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 170 and downwards; and the size decreases from before back- and wards till it ends posteriorly in a tubercle, The small cornu, or appendix, is directed upwards from the point of union of the great cornu with the body, and is joined by the stylo- hyoid ligament. It is seldom wholly ossified. There Cartilages of the Larynx. — There are four large large cartilages in the l&ynx, which are concerned in the produc- tion of the voice, viz. the thyroid, the cricoid, and the two and arytenoid. In addition, there are some fibro-cartilaginous small structures called yellow cartilage, viz. the epiglottis, a capi- lages. tulum to each arytenoid cartilage, and on each side a small roundish piece in the arytamo-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane. Thyroid The thyroid cartilage is the largest of all: it forms the cartilage Upper parj. 0f fae iarvnXj and protects the vocal apparatus as is con- with a shield. The upper part of this cartilage is consider- front? ably wider than the lower, and in consequence of this the form of the larynx somewhat resembles a funnel. The an- terior part is prominent in the middle line, forming the sub- concave cutaneous swelling named pomum Adami; but the cartilage is concave behind, at the same part, and gives attachment to the epiglottis and the thyro-arytaenoid muscles and ligaments. The upper border is notched in the centre. Formed The cartilage consists of two square parts or halves, which halves, are united in the middle line. Posteriorly each half of the having cartilage has a thick border, which terminates upwards and anddcor- downwards in a rounded projection or cornu, both of which nua' are bent slightly inwards : of the two the upper cornu is the longest; but the lower cornu is thicker than the other, and articulates with the cricoid cartilage. The inner surface of each half is smooth ; but the outer is marked by an oblique line, that extends from a tubercle near the root of the upper cornu, nearly to the middle of the lower border. Cricoid The cricoid cartilage is stronger though smaller than the lage." thyroid; it is partly concealed by the shield-like cartilage, below which it is placed, and encircles the cavity of the Form, larynx. It is very unequal in depth before and behind, the posterior part being three times deeper than the anterior, something like a signet ring. Surfaces. The outer surface is rough, and gives attachment to muscles. At the back of the cartilage there is a flat and171 CARTILAGES OF THE LARYNX. rather square surface, which is marked by a median ridge, and two contiguous lateral depressions; and on each side, immediately in front of the square surface, is a slight arti- cular mark, which receives the lower cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The inner surface is smooth, and is covered by mucous membrane. The lower border is almost straight, arid is united to the Borders, first ring of the trachea by fibrous membrane. But the the up- upper border is irregular in its outline: it is nearly straight Sne^nf posteriorly, opposite the deep part of the cartilage, and this portion is limited on each side by an articular mark for the aryteenoid cartilage; but in front of that spot the border is sloped obliquely downwards to the middle line. At the middle line behind there is a slight excavation in each border. The arytcenoid cartilages are two in number, one on each Arytse- side of the middle line, and are placed on the upper border uiagesa.r" of the cricoid cartilage, at the back of the larynx. Each Situa- cartilage is pyramidal in shape, and offers for examination a f0°rm!nd base and apex, and three surfaces. The base has a slightly hollowed surface, posteriorly, for Base, articulation with the cricoid cartilage, and is elongated an- teriorly by means of a process, which gives attachment to the vocal cord : at the outer aspect there is a smaller projec- tion, that receives the insertion of some of the muscles. The Apex, apex is directed backwards and somewhat inwards, and is surmounted by the cartilage of Santorini. The inner sur- Three face is narrow, especially above, and flat; but the outer is sur dces* wide and irregular. At the posterior aspect the cartilage is concave and smooth. Cartilages of Santorini. —- Attached to the apex of each Two arytenoid cartilage is the small, conical cartilaginous body lages of of Santorini (cornicula capitula Santorini), which is bent rini!°" inwards towards the one of the opposite side. The arytseno- epiglottidean fold is connected with it. Cuneiform cartilages.—Two other small fibro-cartilagi- twocu- nous bodies, one on each side, which are contained in the cart?-m arytaeno-epiglottidean folds, have received this name. Each lages* is somewhat circular in form, and is situate vertically in front of the capitulum of the arytenoid cartilage: the situation of each in the fold of the mucous membrane is marked by a slight whitish projection.DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 172 in it. Epigiot- The epiglottis is the largest of the pieces of yellow carti- Form lage. In form it resembles a leaf, with the stalk below, and sitfon?" tne larnin^ or expanded part above. Its position is behind the tongue, and in front of the orifice of the larynx. During respiration it is placed vertically, but during deglutition it assumes a horizontal direction, so as to close the opening of the larynx. sur- The anterior surface is bent forwards to the tongue, to which it is connected by three folds of mucous membrane ; and the posterior surface is hollowed from side to side, but Sides, convex from above down. To its sides the arytasno-epiglot- Foot- tidean folds of mucous membrane are united. The lower part is connected by a fibrous band (thyro-epiglottidean liga- ment) to the posterior surface of the thyroid cartilage, near the notch in the upper border. The epiglottis is further connected to the hyoid bone, and the root of the tongue, by Glands strong bands of elastic and fibrous tissue. After the mucous membrane has Jbeen removed from the epiglottis, the fibro- cartilaginous structure will be seen to be perforated by numerous apertures, that lodge muciparous glands. Sup. Between the epiglottis and the hyoid bone is a mass of giand. yellowish fat with some glands, which has been sometimes called the epiglottidean gland. Liga- Ligaments of the Larynx. — The larynx is connected tnenia-° by ligaments with the hyoid bone above, and with the r>nx' trachea below. Besides, there are connecting fibres uniting together the cartilages; and between some of the cartilages synovial membranes exist, between Union of the larynx with the hyoid bone and the trachea. oides" —A thin loose elastic membrane (thyro-hyoid) passes from chea!™" the thyroid cartilage to the hyoid bone, and a second mem- brane connects the cricoid cartilage with the trachea. Thyro- The thyro-hyoid ligament is attached on the one part to menu the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and on the other, brane' to the upper border of the hyoid bone, at the posterior aspect. Of some thickness in the centre, it gradually becomes thinner towards the sides, and finally ends in a rounded elastic cord, that intervenes between the extremity of the hyoid bone, and the upper cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The superior laryngeal nerve and artery perforate this ligament, and a synovial membrane is placed between it and the posterior surface of the hyoid bone. In the elastic lateral part of the173 LIGAMENTS OF THE LARYNX. ligament will be sometimes found a small ossific nodule (cartilago triticea). The membrane ioining the lower border of the cricoid Cric«- , ° ° tracheal cartilage to the first ring of the trachea—crico-tracheal mem- & ° brane. ligament, resembles the bands joining one ring of the trachea to another. Union of Ike cricoid and thyroid cartilages. — These car- Between . ... . cricoid tilages are ioined, in the middle line in front, by the crico- andthy- ° . J 5 . . roid car- thyroid ligament; and on the side, by a capsular ligament tiiages around the small cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The anterior crico-thyroid liqament or membrane is yellow an an- o terior in colour, and is formed mostly of elastic tissue. At its ligament centre it is thick and strong, and is attached to the con- tiguous margins of the cartilages from which it is named; but on the sides the ligament is thin, and leaving the lower border of the thyroid cartilage is continued upwards to the chorda vocalis. Some small apertures exist in this membrane for the passage of small arteries into the larynx. The liga- ment is partly concealed by the crico-thyroid muscle. The lateral crico-thyroid, or capsular ligament surrounds j11^* the articular surfaces between the side of the cricoid, and joint, the lower cornu of the thyroid cartilage. Its fibres are strongest behind. A synovial membrane lines the capsule. Articulation between the cricoid and arytcenoid cartilages. Between — This articulation allows of most movement, and the SUr- and arv- faces of the cartilages, which are in contact, are retained by a capsule, and possess a synovial sac. The capsular liqament is fixed to each cartilage around its is a cap. . , „ -. • t • suleand articular surface, and one part—posterior ligament, is strong- sac. est on the inner and posterior aspects. A loose synovial membrane is present in the articulation. A kind of capsule, with a synovial sac, unites the apex of Between the arytenoid cartilage with the hollowed base of the noid and cartilage (capitulum) of Santorini. Sometimes these carti- lumT' lages are blended together. The ligaments joining the thyroid with the arytcenoid Betwee cartilages (thyro-arytaenoid) have been already seen in the and ary. interior of the larynx (p. 166.). Ligaments of the epiglottis.—A band—thyro-epiglottidean Two ii. it n • garments — connects the lower part oi the epiglottis to the posterior ofepi- surface of the thyroid cartilage, close to the excavation inDISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 174 the upper border. Some fibrous and elastic tissue — hyo- epiglottidean ligament — likewise connects the front of the epiglottis to the hyoid bone. consti- Structure of the Trachea.—The anterior part of the trachea, trachea is formed of a series of pieces of cartilage (segments of rings), which are connected together by fibrous tissue. The interval at the back of the tube, between the cartilages, is closed by fibrous membrane, and by muscular fibres and muciparous glands. And the tube is lined by the mucous ^membrane with a subjacent elastic tissue. Carti- Cartilages,—The pieces of cartilage vary in number from Form, sixteen to twenty. Each forms an incomplete ring, which occupies about three fourths of a circle; and each is convex Pecuiia- forwards, forming the front and sides of the air tube. At rities P the extremities of the trachea, both above and below, these cartilaginous pieces are least constant in size and form; for towards the larynx they increase in depth, whilst the lowest piece of cartilage is shaped like the letter V: at the ex- tremes, also, of the tube, the cartilages may be slit at their are con- ends, or may be blended together. A fibrous tissue is con- tained in n ^ fibrous tinued from one to another on both aspects, though in tissue. . . greatest quantity externally, so as to incase and unite them, and is extended across the posterior part of the air tube. Dissec- Dissection. — On removing the fibrous membrane and the muciparous glands from between the cartilages at the back of the trachea, the muscular fibres will appear. After the muscular fibres have been examined, they may be cut through to see the elastic tissue and the mucous membrane, Muscu- Muscular fibres.—Between the ends of the cartilages is a dosebres continuous layer of transverse unstriped fibres, which are behind1, attached on the sides to the truncated ends, and the inner surface of the cartilages.* By the one surface the fibres are in contact with the fibrous membrane and the glands, and by the other with the next structure. . Elastic The elastic tissue forms a complete lining to the tracheal lineT tube, beneath the mucous membrane ; though at the pos- trachea. * Some fine longitudinal fibres are said to be found superficial to the transverse in some instances (Kramer) ; they are arranged in scattered bundles, and are attached to the fibrous tissue.—See Kullikers Jnatomie, p. 305. (Zweiter Band).PREVERTEBRAL MUSCLES. 175 terior part, where the cartilages are deficient, it is gathered into strong longitudinal folds. This layer is closely connected with the mucous membrane covering it. The mucous membrane of the trachea lines the tube, and Mucous mem- resembles that of the larynx, with which it is continuous, in crane, J 7 epithe- being furnished with a columnar ciliated epithelium. Con- ijum, nected with this membrane are numerous muciparous com- glands, pound glands of variable size. The largest set are found at the back of the trachea, in the interval between the cartilages, where some are placed beneath the mucous membrane, and others outside the fibrous tissue of that part: the ducts of the last pass forwards between the muscular fibres to the surface of the mucous membrane. Other smaller glands occupy the front and sides of the trachea, being situated on and in the fibrous tissue connecting the cartilaginous rings. Section XVIII. PREVERTEBRAL MUSCLES AND VERTEBRAL VESSELS. Directions.—On the part of the spinal column that was laid Deep •ip i « . muscles aside after the separation of the pharynx from it, the student of spine, is to dissect the deep muscles on the front of the vertebras. Dissection.—To dissect those muscles, it will be necessary Dissec- to remove the cellular membrane. The muscles are three in number on each side, and are easily distinguished: the largest one, nearest the middle line, is the longus colli; the muscle external to this, which reaches to the head, is the rectus capitis anticus major; and the small muscle, external to the last and close to the skull, the rectus capitis anticus minor. The small rectus muscle is usually injured in cutting through the basilar process of the occipital bone. The longus colli muscle is situate on the side of the Longus bodies of the cervical and upper dorsal vertebrae, and is pointed above, but larger below. It consists of two parts — Origin internal and external, the former of which is vertical, and the latter oblique in direction. The internal part arises by by two fleshy and tendinous processes from the bodies of the two PleC6S upper dorsal, and two lower cervical vertebrae ; and the ex- ternal piece takes origin from the upper border of the anterior roots of the transverse processes of four cervical176 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Inse tion Connec- vertebrae (sixth, fifth, fourth, and third). Both parts of the inser- muscle are blended above, and the whole is inserted by four tlon* slips into the lower border of the bodies of the four upper cervical vertebras. Some of the lowest fibres of the muscle, those which sometimes extend to the neck of the first rib, are attached separately by tendon to the transverse processes Parts in of one or two of the lower cervical vertebras. In contact contact . . _ r>-i« i • i i with it. with the anterior surface 01 this muscle is the pharynx. The inner border is at some distance, inferiorly, from the. muscle of the opposite side, but, superiorly, only the pointed anterior common ligament of the spine separates the two. The outer border is contiguous to the scalenus, to the vertebral vessels, and to the rectus capitis anticus major muscle. Rectus The rectus capitis anticus major is external to the pre- capitis 1.1 . ,-r... major, ceding muscle, and is largest at its upper end. Its origin is Origin, pointed tendinous slips from the summits of the trans- verse processes of four cervical vertebrae (sixth, fifth, fourth, and third); and the fibres ascend to be inserted into the basilar process of the occipital bone, in front of the foramen tions. magnum. The anterior surface of the muscle is covered by the pharynx, and by the internal carotid artery and the numerous nerves near the base of the skull. This muscle partly conceals the following one. At its insertion the rectus is fleshy, and reaches from the middle line to the tem- poral bone. Rectus The rectus capitis anticus minor is a small flat muscle, minor that arises from the transverse process, and partly from the neath anterior arch (body) of the atlas ; and ascends to be inserted ing.Ce " into the basilar process of the occipital bone, between the foramen magnum and the preceding muscle, and half an inch from its fellow. The anterior division of the sub- occipital nerve lies between the borders of this muscle and the rectus capitis lateralis. Dissec- Dissection.—The small intertransversales will come into view, when the other muscles have been removed from the front and back of the transverse processes. By tracing to- wards the spine the anterior division of one of the cervical nerves, the muscles will be readily found, for they are placed on the sides of the nerve. After the muscles and nerves have been examined, the tips of the transverse processes may be cut off to lay bare the vertebral artery. tion.177 CERVICAL NERVES. The intertransverse muscles are slender fleshy slips inter- that occupy the intervals between the transverse processes, verse In the neck there are seven pairs — one for each space. The first pair is between the atlas and the axis, whilst the Number r 7 and at- last is between the last cervical, and the first dorsal vertebra.tach- ments. One set is attached to the anterior, and the other to the pos- terior tubercles on the tips of the transverse processes. Be- tween the muscles, except in the first two spaces, is the anterior division of a cervical nerve ; and beneath the pos- terior muscle is the other division of the same nerve. In Peculia- rities. the upper intertransverse space the posterior muscle is often wanting ; and, in the lowest space, the muscle of the anterior set is smaller than the others, or it may-be absent. Cervical nerves at their exit from the spinal canal, — The Cervical cervical nerves issue from the spinal canal through the inter- their f0- vertebral foramina, with two exceptions, and bifurcate into give an anterior and a posterior trunk. The anterior division passes outwards between the inter- anterior transverse muscles, and joins the plexuses in the neck (p. 75.). The posterior division turns to the back beneath the pos- and Pos- _ _ _ . ill terior di- terior intertransverse muscle, and the other muscles attached vision. to the posterior roots of the transverse processes ; here it will be found close to the bone between the articular pro- cesses of the vertebra. Peculiarities in first two. — The first two nerves leave the First two nerves spinal canal above the posterior arches of the first two ver- differ tebrse, and divide at the back of the neck into anterior and posterior trunks. Anterior division.—The anterior part of the first or sub- in both occipital nerve has been examined (p. 118). The anterior tnden°r division of the second nerve, after perforating the membrane between the posterior arches of the first and second vertebrae, is directed forwards, outside the vertebral artery, and beneath the intertransverse muscle of the first space, to join the cer- vical plexus. The posterior divisions of the first two nerves are described P?^erior in the dissection of the back. sions. The vertebral artery has been seen at its origin in the Verte- bral ar- neck (p. 72.), and its termination will be described with the teryin vessels of the brain. Entering the foramen in the trans- raminaDISSECTION OF THE NECK. 178 ofcervi- verse process of the sixth cervical vertebra (usually), the tebraj." artery ascends vertically through the foramina in the trans- verse processes; and having passed through the aperture in the atlas, the vessel turns backwards on the posterior arch of that bone, and enters the skull through the foramen magnum, after piercing the ligament joining the atlas and the occipital Position bone. In its course through the foramina, the artery lies in to the . °. J nerves, front of the anterior trunks of the cervical nerves, except those of the first and second, the former of which crosses on a vein the inner, and the latter on the outer side of the vessel. The nerves vessel is accompanied by a vein, and a plexus of nerves of are with . it. the same name, in its course the artery furnishes small twigs to the spinal canal, and the contained cord. Verte- The vertebral vein commences by small radicles in the oc- brai vein c.pU^ an(j -m muscles of the back of the neck, and enters the aperture in the transverse process of the atlas, where it sometimes receives a vein through the posterior condyloid ends in foramen of the occipital bone. Accompanying the artery, vian!a" the vein traverses the apertures in the transverse processes, Branch- and ends in the subclavian vein. In its course it receives branches from the internal and external spinal veins; its other branches are described at p. 73. Plexus of The vertebral plexus of nerves is derived from the inferior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. The plexus surrounds the artery, and communicates with the spinal nerves as high as the third or fourth. Section XIX. LIGAMENTS OF THE VERTEBRAE AND CLAVICLE. Directions.— On the remaining part of the spine the liga- ments, that connect the cervical vertebrae one to another and to the occipital bone, are to be examined. Dissec- Dissection.— Separate the cervical from the dorsal ver- tebrae by disarticulating between the seventh and the first. Then remove altogether the muscles, vessels, nerves, and cellular structure from the vertebrae. By sawing through the occipital bone, so as to leave only an osseous ring bound- ing posteriorly the foramen magnum, the ligaments between the atlas and the occipital bone can be more easily cleaned.179 LIGAMENTS OF THE FIRST TWO VERTEBRAE. The common ligaments attaching together the cervical Common vertebras are the same as unite the vertebras in other parts of merits of the spine, viz. an anterior and a posterior strong ligament; bra. connecting bands between the laininas and spines; capsular ligaments and synovial membranes between the articulating processes; and an inter-articular ligament between the bodies of the bones. Directions.—These ligaments are first to be learnt: their These preparation and description will be found with the ligaments merits of the spine, at the end of the dissection of the thorax. But ed eise- , i it • where. in opening the spinal canal, to see the ligaments inside it, the arches of the three highest vertebras should for the pre- sent be left untouched. Special ligaments unite the first two cervical vertebras special liga- one to another and to the occipital bone : some of these are ments external to, and others within the spinal canal. The ligaments outside the spinal canal are thin fibrous between membranes, that connect the arches of the first two vertebras vertebra in front and behind, and join the atlas with the occipital bone cipitai" at the same aspects. Capsular ligaments surround the articu- °ne' lar surfaces of all the bones, but these will be examined more conveniently after the spinal canal has been opened. a. Union of the atlas with the axis. — 1. The posterior liga- ment (atlo-axoid) is a thin loose membrane, which is attached posterior by the one margin to the posterior arch of the atlas, and by and the other to the arch of the axis. Below the superficial layer are some deeper and stronger fibres. 2. The anterior liga- ment unites the anterior parts of the first two vertebras, in anterior atlo-ax- the same manner as the preceding ligament connects their oid; posterior arches. It is thickest in the middle. b. Union of the atlas with the occipital bone. — 1. The and an- anterior ligament (occipito-atloid) is thin and wide, and passes from the surface of the occipital bone, in front of the foramen magnum, to the anterior part of the atlas. The middle part of the ligament, which is fixed to the tubercle on the front of the atlas, is much the thickest. 2. The posterior and Pos- ligament is fixed to the occipital bone behind the foramen occipito- magnum, and to the posterior arch of the atlas. It is thin, and is perforated on each side by the vertebral artery, and by the posterior division of the suboccipital nerve. The ligaments inside the spinal canal are peculiar m mentsin-180 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. ternaiiy form, and assist to retain the skull in position during the same rotatory and nodding movements of the head. Between the occipital bone and the second vertebra are three strong liga- ments — a central one, and two lateral or check ligaments; and, moreover, the odontoid process of the axis is fixed against the anterior arch of the atlas by a strong transverse ligament. Dissec- Dissection. — Supposing the laminae of the cervical ver- tlon* tebras to be removed, except from the first three bones, the posterior arches of these vertebras are to be sawn through internal to their articular processes. Afterwards the ring of the occipital bone that bounds posteriorly the foramen magnum is to be taken away. Lastly, the student should detach the tube of dura mater from the interior of the spinal canal; and on raising, from below, the upper part of the posterior common ligament of the bodies of the vertebras, the central ligamentous band between the occipital bone and the axis (occipito-axoid) will come into view. Between ci. Union of the occipital bone with the axis. — 1. The a-sd^isa1 central ligament (occipito-axoidean) is a strong thick band, cental which is connected with the posterior ligament of the bodies band. ^ ^e vertebras, and is rather pyramidal in form, with the base uppermost. Above, it is attached to the basilar process on the cranial aspect, and near the margin of the foramen magnum, extending as far on each side as the insertion of the check ligaments. From this spot it descends over the odontoid process, and, becoming narrower, is inserted into the transverse ligament of the atlas, and into the body of the axis. Occasionally a bursa is found between the trans- verse ligament of the atlas, and the superficial fibres of the occipito-axoidean ligament which are continued to the second vertebra. Dissec- Dissection.—After the removal of the occipito-axoidean tl0n' ligament, the following check ligaments will be partly seen, together with the transverse ligament. A band of fibres is to be defined, that passes upwards and downwards from the transverse ligament; but the upper offset may be cut through for the purpose of seeing the check ligaments. And two 2. The lateral odontoid or check ligaments are two strong check1 °r bundles of fibres, one on each side : each is attached by one ments. en^ to tfte rough side of the head of the odontoid process, and by the other to a depression on the inner surface of the181 LIGAMENTS OF THE FIRST TWO VERTEBRA. condyle of the occipital bone. These ligaments are covered by the occipito-axoidean band, and diverge from a central point to the sides; their upper fibres are short and almost horizontal, and the lower are longer and oblique. Between the lateral bands there is a central odontoid liqa- with a i central ment, that connects the tip of the odontoid process to the band, margin of the basilar process of the occipital bone. b. Union of the atlas with the axis. — The transverse liga- To fix . odontoid ment of the atlas is a flat, strong, arched band behind the process . . there odontoid process, which is attached on each side to a tubercle is a below the inner part of the articular process of the atlas. This ligament is widest in the centre, and at this spot it has trans-^ a band of longitudinal fibres connected with its upper and gament, lower margins, so as to produce a cruciform appearance: of these bands, the upper one is inserted into the basilar pro- cess, and the lower one into the body of the second vertebra. Its surface towards the cord is concealed by the occipito- axoid ligament. This ligament fixes firmly the odontoid process of the second vertebra against the anterior arch of the atlas, confining it in a ring. When the transverse and check ligaments are cut through, articular the tip of the odontoid process will be seen to have two car- tilaginous surfaces; one in front where it touches the atlas, the other at the opposite aspect, where it is in contact with the transverse ligament. Two synovial membranes facilitate and two the movements of the odontoid process, one being between mem-*1 that piece of bone and the atlas, and the other between it and the transverse ligament. Union of the articular surfaces. — a. The articular sur- capsule faces of the occipital bone and atlas are surrounded by a no vial capsular ligament of scattered fibres, which is strongest ex- arti^° ternally and in front. When the joint is opened, the condyle suffices, of the occipital bone will be seen to look somewhat outwards, whilst the hollowed surface of the atlas has an opposite direction. A loose synovial membrane is placed between the bones, b. The articular surfaces of the first two ver- tebras are enclosed on each side by a capsule, which is stronger in front than behind. On opening the joint, the surfaces of the bones in contact will be seen to be almost horizontal. On each side there is a separate loose synovial membrane. v 3DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 182 Joint at Sterno-clavicular Articulation—The internal end sternal pit... end of of the clavicle is received on a fibro-cartilaore, and is re- clavicle. .... . tamed in position by a capsular ligament, by a band to the first rib, and by another between the ends of the two clavicles. Dissec- Dissection.—For the examination of the ligaments in the tion. ^ . . sterno-clavicular articulation, take the piece of the sternum that was laid aside for that purpose; and should the liga- ments have become dry, they ought first to be moistened for a short time. The several ligaments will appear after the removal of the cellular membrane. Capsular Capsular ligament. — This a thin membranous expansion, ment. that contains the articular ends of the bones, and the fibro- cartilage. It is attached near the articular surface of each bone, and is thinner before than behind. Sometimes the stronger fibres, that exist in front and at the back, are de- scribed as separate ligaments, inter- The interclavicular ligament extends above the sternum, clavicu- iar, between the ends of the clavicles. The fibres do not cross in a straight line, but dip into the hollow between the clavicular bones, and are connected with the upper part of the sternum, and cos- The costo-clavicular ligament is a short strong band of cuiar n- oblique fibres intervening between the first rib and the gament. c|av*c|e^ lnferiorly it is fixed to the upper surface of the cartilage of the first rib, and superiorly to a tubercle on the under surface of the clavicle near its sternal end. The sub- clavius muscle is in front of the ligament. Sometimes the clavicle touches the rib, and is provided with an articular surface and a synovial membrane at that spot. Fibro- The inter articular fibro-cartilage will come into view by lage. cutting the ligaments before described, and raising the cla- vicle. It is flat, and almost circular in form, but is thicker at the circumference than the centre. By its upper surface the cartilage is united to the head of the clavicle, which is imbedded in it; and by the opposite surface it is connected with the cartilage of the first rib. At its circumference it joins the capsule of the joint. Sometimes there is an aper- ture in the centre of the cartilage. Two sy- Two synovial membranes are present in the articulation, ni°em- one being on each side of the fibro-cartilage. The sac in branes. contact wjt^ ^ gternum js looser than that touching the clavicle.183 CHAPTER II. DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Section L MEMBRANES AND VESSELS. During the examination of the membranes, the vessels, and Position 7 7 of the the nerves, the brain is to be placed upside down, resting in brain, the coil of a cloth which supports it evenly. Membranes of the Brain. — The coverings of the brain Three > menin- (meninges) are three in number, viz. dura mater, pia mater, ges. and arachnoid membrane. The dura mater is a firm, fibrous investment that supports parts of the brain, and serves as an endosteum to the bones. The pia mater is the most internal layer, and is very vascular. And the arachnoid is a thin serous sac, which is situate between the other two. Besides enveloping the brain, these membranes are pro- longed on the cord into the spinal canal, and will be noticed in the dissection of that part. The description of the dura Dura A mater. mater will be found at p. 10. The arachnoid is a thin serous membrane, which lines Arach- the inner aspect of the dura mater *, and is reflected over mem. the pia mater and the brain. Around the vessels and nerves, that intervene between the skull and the brain, the mem- brane forms sheaths, which extend a short distance into the several apertures, and then become continuous with the parietal or cranial portion. Like other serous membranes, it forms a sac which contains a lubricating moisture; and it consists of a parietal and a visceral part. The parietal part is inseparably united to the inner sur- Parietal face of the dura mater, giving to it a smooth and polished Pan aspect, and is continued in the same manner over the pieces of that membrane that project between the different portions of the brain. * The existence of a distinct parietal part to this membrane is denied by Kblliker, Mikroskopische Anatomie, p. 489. (Zweiter Band). n 4DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 184 visceral The visceral part covers the encephalon loosely, especially not close at the under surface, and beneath it there is a considerable t0 ram' interval (subarachnoid space). When it is traced over the brain, the following is the disposition of the serous mem- brane. On the upper or convex surface of the brain the membrane passes from one convolution to another, without dipping into the intervening hollows; but it lines the great hollow median fissure as low as the extent of the falx. On the lower or under surface of the cerebral mass the arachnoid covers the anterior lobes, and sinks also into the median varies at fissure: but farther back there is a space between it and the brain. Still more posteriorly the serous membrane is closely connected to the pons and to the under surface of the cere- bellum ; but between the hemispheres of the little brain there is another space beneath it, similar to that at the under part of the cerebrum. it is the The subarachnoid space, or the interval between the arach- arachnoid membrane and the pia mater, is larger in one spot space, than another, and contains more or less fluid, that has been named cerebro-spinal. This space is largest in the fissure between the hemispheres both of the cerebrum and the cere- bellum, and at the under part of the great brain about its middle. If the arachnoid covering is removed from the fissure between the hemispheres of the cerebellum, the aper- ture of the fourth ventricle will be perceived, by which the cavity in the interior of the brain communicates with the subserous space both of the encephalon and of the spinal cord. Pia ma- The pia mater, or the vascular covering of the brain, closely invests the different parts of the cranial mass, and dips into the fissures, as well as into the hollows between the sends convolutions and laminae. Besides covering the exterior of Fntothe the brain, it sends processes into the interior to supply ves- brain' sels to the walls of the enclosed spaces: thus, one penetrates into the cerebrum below the corpus callosum, and is named velum interpositum; and two vascular fringes project into the fourth ventricle, and are known as the choroid plexuses of that ventricle. it is a This membrane is a net-work of vessels, and is constructed of biood- of the minute ramifications of the arteries, before they enter vesse s. ^e substance of the brain, and of the veins that issue fromMEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. 185 the cerebral substance; whilst the intervals between the vessels are closed by cellular tissue, so as to form a con- tinuous membrane. From the under surface of the pia mater proceed numerous fine vessels for the nutrition of the brain. Vessels and nerves. — The arachnoid membrane has but few Vessels vessels, whilst the pia mater is almost entirely composed of vessels nerves, and nerves. The arachnoid is considered to be nerveless ; huh the pia mater is largely supplied by the offsets of the sympathetic, that accompany the blood vessels at the base of the brain (p. 22.). Bochdalek has also described offsets to it from some cranial nerves. Dissection.—To follow out the arteries, let the brain re- Dissec- tion of main upside down, and let the arachnoid membrane be ^sves" removed from the vessels that are seen on the surface. First, the two arteries that lie in the median fissure of the great brain may be defined; next, the artery that passes outwards transversely between the two lobes of the brain; and, lastly, a vessel that bends backwards along the inner part of the great brain (cerebrum). One artery is seen ramifying on the upper (in the present position) surface of the little brain, and another is to be followed to the opposite surface. Divisions of the brain.—Before entering into the detail of the anatomy of the arteries, the different divisions of the brain, and the larger parts that are seen on its under-surface, may be mentioned shortly. The cranial or encephalic mass of the nervous system outline consists of cerebrum or great brain, cerebellum or small mSsa.nia brain, and pons and medulla oblongata. Each of these parts has the following situation and subdivisions: — The medulla oblongata, or the upper end of the spinal Upper cord, lies in the groove between the halves of the small sphLd brain, and is divided into two symmetrical parts by a median fissure. To each half some of the cranial nerves are united. The pons Varolii, is situate in front of the medulla ob- Pons longata, and is marked along the middle by a groove, which Varolli indicates its separation into two halves. In front of it are two large processes (crura cerebri) that pass to the great and its brain; on each side it is united to the small brain by a crura'DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 186 similar white mass (crus cerebelli); and behind it is the enlarged upper part of the cord. Cerebei- The cerebellum, or the small brain, is divided into two lum. 7 7 halves by a median fissure, and each half will be subsequently seen to be subdivided into lobes. Cere- The cerebrum, or the large brain, is also divided into two halves by a longitudinal fissure in the middle line. Each half is further subdivided into anterior, middle, and posterior and its lobes. Between the anterior and the middle lobe is the great di- visions, fissure of Sylvius, but the limit between the middle and the posterior is an imaginary line corresponding to the anterior part of the small brain. In the centre of the cerebrum, be- tween the hemispheres and in front of the pons, are several small bodies that will be afterwards enumerated. Arteries Arteries of the Brain.— The brain is supplied with brain, blood by the two vertebral, and the two internal carotid arteries. Verte- The vertebral artery is a branch of the subclavian artery, and enters the spinal canal by piercing the membrane be- endsin tween the atlas and the occipital bone. Then ascending to sl ar' the brain, round the side of the medulla oblongata, the artery enters the skull through the foramen magnum, and is blended with its fellow in one trunk (basilar) at the lower border of winds the pons. As the vessel winds round the upper part of the medulla, cord, it lies between the roots of the ninth and suboccipital nerves; but it is afterwards internal to the ninth. Branch- Branches. — Between its entrance into the spinal canal and its termination, each artery furnishes offsets to the spinal cord, to the dura mater, and to the cerebellum. to spinal 1, The posterior spinal branch is of inconsiderable size, and arises opposite the posterior part of the cord : it descends anterior along the side of the cord, behind the nerves, anastomosing with its fellow, and with branches that enter by the inter- vertebral foramina. poste- 2. The anterior spinal branch is as small as the preceding, nor' and is an offset opposite the front of the spinal cord. This small branch joins the corresponding twig of the opposite side, and the resulting vessel is continued along the middle of the cord on its anterior aspect. o^ura 3, The posterior meningeal artery leaves the vertebralVERTEBRAL ARTERIES. 187 trunk opposite the foramen magnum, and ramifies in the dura mater lining the fossae of the occipital bone. 4. The inferior cerebellar artery (posterior) is distributed ^r^h to the under surface of the cerebellum. Taking origin from under ° ° part of the end of the vertebral, or from the basilar artery, this f^bel" branch winds backwards round the side of the medulla, be- tween the pneumo-gastric and spinal accessory nerves, and enters the median fissure of the cerebellum. Directed on- wards along the fissure, the artery reaches the upper surface of the cerebellum, and there anastomoses with the superior cerebellar artery. A branch of this vessel ramifies over the under surface of the cerebellum, and ends externally by anastomosing with the upper cerebellar artery. As the vessel lies by the side of the aperture of the fourth ventricle, it gives a small offset to the choroid plexus of that cavity. The basilar artery is the vessel resulting from the union Basilar . artery. of the two vertebral arteries. It reaches from the lowrer to Extent the upper border of the pons, and ends at the last spot by and dividing into two branches (posterior cerebral) for the cere- brum. The vessel touches the basilar process of the occipital situa- bone, from that circumstance receiving its name, and corre- sponds to the median groove of the pons. On each side of, and almost parallel to it is the sixth nerve. Branches. — Besides the terminal branches mentioned Branch- es : above, the artery supplies transverse offsets to the pons and to the under part of the cerebellum, and a large branch to the upper surface of the cerebellum. 1. The transverse arteries of the pons are four or six Trans- verse to small twigs, that are named from their direction, and are dis- the pons tributed to the substance of the pons. One of these gives an offset to the internal auditory meatus along the seventh nerve. Resembling most this set of branches is the follow- ing artery, the inferior cerebellar (anterior): this arises and in- ferior ce- from the basilar trunk, and is directed outwards to the rebeiiar. under-surface of the cerebellum, at the anterior part, on which it is distributed. 2. The superior cerebellar artery is derived from the superior basilar so near its termination, that it is often described as iar. one of the final branches of that vessel. Its destination is the upper aspect of the cerebellum, to which it is directed backwards over the third nerve and the crus cerebri, butDISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 188 parallel to the fourth nerve. On the upper surface of the cerebellum the artery spreads out in branches, and its rami- fications anastomose with the vessel of the opposite side, and with the inferior cerebellar artery. Some twigs of this vessel enter the piece of the pia mater (velum interpositum), that projects into the posterior part of the cerebrum. Posterior 3. The posterior cerebral artery takes on each side a cerebral x artery; backward course, similar to that of the preceding artery, but separated from it by the third nerve. The vessel is then inclined to the posterior lobe of the cerebrum, at its inner side, and divides into many branches. Some of these supply the under part of the posterior lobe, whilst others turn up- wards both on the outer and inner aspects of the back of the hemisphere, and anastomose with the other cerebral arteries. Its branches are the following : — its offsets Numerous small long branches leave it close to its origin, and are enter the base of the brain between the crura cerebri (posterior perforated spot). Soon afterwards the vessel is joined by a small commu- straight branch (posterior communicating) from the internal carotid andcho- artery. Lastly, it furnishes a small choroid artery to the fold of roid. pja mater that projects into the cerebrum : this small branch winds round the crus cerebri, and is transmitted between the crus and the hemisphere of the cerebrum to the velum interpositum and the choroid plexus. Part of From the foregoing examination of the branches of the supplied vertebral arteries, and of the trunk (basilar) that continues teybnd" them onwards, it appears that about half the encephalon — arteries. ^z ^e medulla oblongata, the pons, the cerebellum, and the posterior third of the cerebrum—receives its blood through those branches of the subclavian arteries. internal The internal carotid artery terminates in the brain carotid ^ SUppiving branches to its remaining two thirds, or to the anterior and middle lobes. Having passed through the space of the cavernous sinus (p. 21.), the vessel emerges on the inner side of the anterior clinoid process, and divides at ends in the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius into anterior cerebral, arteries, middle cerebral, and posterior communicating arteries. At the base of the brain the carotid artery lies between the second and third nerves, but nearest the former. Branch- Branches.—In the skull the carotid artery supplies the es.189 CAROTID AKTEEIES. ophthalmic artery, before it ends in the following terminal branches to the cerebrum. L The anterior cerebral artery supplies the inner part of ^jtertor the cerebral hemisphere. The vessel of each side is directed supplies 1 inner forwards to the median fissure between the hemispheres; g^.of and as the two are about to enter it, they are united by a sPhere ? 7 J J coramu- short thick artery, the anterior communicating. Each artery ^Jjjlg then runs forwards in the fissure, and bends round the ante- rior part of the corpus callosum, so as to be placed on its upper aspect in the natural position of the brain. Still con- tinuing backwards nearly to the posterior extremity of the hemisphere, the vessel gives off numerous branches, which anastomose with the other cerebral arteries. It supplies other branches, thus: — Near its commencement the artery furnishes many smallits off- . sets, branches to the part of the brain contiguous to the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius (anterior perforated space) ; and it distributes also some branches to the under part of the anterior lobe. 2. The middle cerebral artery is the largest offset of the Middle . « cerebral internal carotid, and supplies the outer side of the hemi- artery sphere. Passing outwards in the fissure of Sylvius, the artery divides in it into many large branches that issue at the outer end of that groove, and spreading over the ex- ^rin ternal aspect of the hemisphere of the cerebrum, inosculate of with the other two cerebral arteries at the front, the back, sphere, and the upper part of the brain. Only the remaining fine offsets require notice: A set of small branches arises at the inner end of the fissure of Offsets. Sylvius, and enter the cerebral substance through the part called locus perforatus anticus. 3. The posterior communicating artery is a small twig Poste- that is directed backwards parallel to the third nerve, and on municat- its inner side, to join the posterior cerebral artery (of the mg* basilar) near the pons. 4. The choroid artery (anterior) is small in size, and ^™id arises either from the trunk of the carotid, or from the middle cerebral artery. It passes backwards on the outer side of the preceding, and finds its way between the hemi- sphere and the crus cerebri to the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle. Circle of Willis,—This term has been applied to the chain circle of Willis;190 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. of communications between the arteries at the base of the brain; for the vessels of the brain are united freely both on their own side and across the middle line, and give rise to an vessels arterial circle. On each side this circle is formed by the that take a share trunk of the internal carotid, giving forwards the anterior cerebral, and backwards the posterior communicating artery. In front it is constructed by the converging anterior cere- bral, and the anterior communicating artery; and behind, by the bifurcation of the basilar trunk into the posterior cerebral arteries. In the area of the circle lie the several parts of the brain that correspond to the floor of the third and the ventricle. The complete inosculation between the cranial free inos- culation vessels, in the circle of Willis, allows at all times a free cir- between them, culation of blood through the brain, even though a large vessel on one side should be obstructed. veins of The veins of the brain enter the sinuses of the dura the • • • brain, mater, instead of uniting into trunks that are companions to the arteries. Dissec- Dissection. — The pia mater and the vessels are now to be tion. . stripped from the brain, and the origin of the cranial nerves to be defined. Over the greater part of the cerebrum, the pons, and the medulla, the pia mater is detached with tole- rable facility by using two pair of forceps; but over the cerebellum the membrane adheres so closely that it will re- quire some care to remove it without tearing the substance Care to of the brain. In clearing out the fissure between the halves in re- of the cerebellum on the under surface, the membrane that p£m2 bounds on each side the opening of the fourth ventricle will probably be taken away. The student should therefore ob- serve the position and size of that opening between the back of the medulla oblongata and the inferior vermiform process. When the surface has been cleaned, the brain is to be re- placed in the spirit till it is hardened. Section II. ORIGIN OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. Crigin The cranial nerves take origin from the encephalon, with one exception (spinal accessory), and leave the skull through apertures in that bony case.ORIGIN OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. The origin of a nerve is not determined by the place at is appa- i n n " i -i • n rent an(i which it appears on the surface of the brain, for fibres or real.; roots may be traced deeply into the nervous substance. Each nerve has, therefore, a superficial or apparent, and a deep or real origin in the encephalon. Respecting the superficial attachment to the brain there cannot be any doubt; but respecting the deep origin there is much difference of opinion, in consequence of the difficulties real enters attending any investigation. When the roots are followed grey into the encephalon, they are found to be connected with masses of grey substance, which Stilling has named, in many instances, nerve nuclei.* The cranial nerves may be regarded either as nine or twelve ^q^" pairs, according to the mode of classifying them. Those anato- mists, who take the smaller number, include in one nerve all the trunks contained in the same aperture of the skull: this may be instanced in the eighth nerve, which consists of three trunks in the foramen lacerum jugulare. But those who enumerate twelve nerves, consider each of the three trunks of the eighth nerve before mentioned, and all other trunks issuing from the encephalon, to constitute a separate cranial nerve, notwithstanding that it may be combined with others in its foramen of exit. The nomenclature of the several nerves has a three-fold origin: a.nd <J?" o signation Thus, the designation may be numerical, as first, second, third, and from so forth, and this mode of naming applies to all and is the one number generally used. But a second name is obtained, by a few nerves, from the parts to which they are supplied; as instances of this the terms hypo-glossal, pneumogastric, may be taken. And a different of appellation is given to others, in consequence of the function con- 0rfunc- ferred on the part to which they are distributed, as the terms audi-tlon* tory and olfactory express. In this way two names may be em- ployed, almost indifferently, in referring to a nerve: — one being numerical, the other local or functional. The first or olfactory nerve (olfactory process) is very soft and pulpy, being destitute of a neuriLemma; and it may be considered an advanced part of the brain, for it has both grey substance and white fibres in its composition, like the cerebrum. The olfactory process is a flat-looking band, wider at each * The statements of Stilling concerning the deep origin are here adopted, as his inquiries are the most complete, but^many will probably require modification.192 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. lies on end than in the middle, which is lodged in a sulcus on the lobe, under aspect of the anterior lobe of the cerebrum, and is kept in position by the reflection of the arachnoid membrane over it. When the so-called nerve is raised from its sulcus, it may be seen to be prismatic in form, the apex of the prism being directed downwards (in this position), forms Anteriorlv, the nervous substance swells into the olfactory olfactory J ' . J bulb, bulb, a mass of grey matter, that rests on the ethmoid bone, and distributes nerves to the nose. Posteriorly, the olfac- tory process is connected to the cerebrum by three roots of origin, external, internal, and middle. has The external or long root is a slender white band, which external 17 passes along the outer part of the anterior perforated space, and across the fissure of Sylvius, and disappears by sinking into the substance of the middle lobe of the cerebrum, internal The internal or short root is also white and delicate, and and comes from the inner part of the anterior lobe of the cere- brum. middle The middle or qreii root is connected with a conical ele- root. . . vation at the posterior part of the sulcus which lodges the nerve. Deep Deep origin.—The external root is said to be connected with onsin* the corpus striatum and the anterior commissure, and with the white matter covering the end of the hippocampus major. The inner root joins a band of white fibres connected with a convolution (gyrus fornicatus) to be afterwards examined. And the middle root is continuous with the grey matter of the convolutions, optic The second or optic nerve is the largest of the cranial nerves, except the fifth, and appears as a flat band on the crus cerebri. Anteriorly the nerves of opposite sides are part can. united in a commissure. The part of the nerve posterior to the commissure is named optic tract; but the part beyond the commissural union, which is round and firm from being invested by a neurilemmar sheath of dura mater, is called part, optic nerve. The destination of the nerve is to the eyeball. Tract' The tract is the flattened part of the nerve, winding round the peduncle of the cerebrum, which is destitute of neuri- lemma. In front it ends in the commissure, and behind it splits into two parts at its attachment to the brain. As the tract reaches forwards it crosses the crus cerebri, to which it is attached by its outer or anterior edge; and in front of that of the nerveORIGIN OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. 193 peduncle it is placed between the locus perforatus anticus, on the outside, and the tuber cinereum, on the inside, but whether it receives filaments from one or both of those bodies is uncertain. The commissure (chiasma) of the optic nerves is somewhat its com- v ' A m missure. of a square shape, and lies on the olivary eminence of the sphenoid bone, within the circle of Willis. It is placed in front of the tuber cinereum; and passing beneath it (in this position of the brain) is the thin lamina cinerea. In the situa- commissure there is a partial crossing of the fibres oi the struc- nerves after this manner; — the outer fibres of each nerve, few in number, are continued straight to the eyeball of the Arran%- ? t ° J ment ot same side, but the greater part of its fibres decussate,—those fi&res. of the right nerve being continued to the left, and vice versa, and enter the eye of the opposite side. At the front and back of the commissure are other transverse fibres : the posterior are continued through the optic tracts back to the brain, without entering the eyes; and the anterior are pro- longed through the part of the nerve in front of the com- missure to the eyeballs, but have not any connection with the brain. The origin of the nerve will be afterwards seen to come Origin from two of the corpora quadrigemina (nates and testis of cere- one side), and from the optic thalamus and the corpora geni- culata. The third nerve, muscular nerve of the eyeball, is round origin and firm, and is attached to the inner aspect of the cerebral nerve is peduncle, near the locus perforatus, and close in front of the pons Varolii. Deep origin.—The fibres of the nerve pierce the peduncle, deep in passing through the locus niger, and enter a mass of gray substance cerebri, in the floor of the aqueduct of Sylvius.* The fourth or trochlear nerve cannot be followed origin backwards, at present, to its origin. It is the smallest of the nerve cranial nerves, and springs from the valve of Vieussens, over cerebei- the fourth ventricle. The nerve appears between the cere- brum and the cerebellum, on the side of the crus cerebri, * The origin of this nerve, and of the others as far as the eighth, is taken from the following work of Stilling, Untersuchungen iiber den Bau des Hirnknotens. O194 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. and is then directed forwards to enter an aperture in the tentorium cerebelli, near the posterior clinoid process, and Deep origin. — In entering the valve of Vieussens, the nerves Sylvian _ r . °. _ _ . &. _-. . _ . ' aque- oi opposite sides cross, ii-ach then divides into two parts : one (an- terior) enters a nucleus of gray matter on the side of the aqueduct of Sylvius ; the other (posterior), a nucleus (upper trigeminal), near the top of the fourth ventricle, and in front of the prolonga- tion of the gray matter of the locus cseruleus. Fifth The fifth or trigeminal nerve is the largest cranial has two nerve, and consists of two parts, large and small. This roots. . , . nerve resembles a spinal nerve, in possessing two roots, ganglionic or sensory, and aganglionic or motor, which are blended beyond the ganglion. Origin The nerve is attached to the side of the pons Varolii, pons. nearer the upper than the lower border. The small or aganglionic root is highest, and is separated from the other by two or three of the transverse fibres of the pons. Both roots pass outwards, through an aperture in the dura mater, above the petrous part of the temporal bone, where they are blended in the peculiar manner stated in p. 20. near Deep origin. — Both roots penetrate the fibres of the pons, and fourth are connected with nuclei near the floor of the fourth ventricle, ventn- rp^Q iarge r00f divides into two parts near the mass of gray begin- matter called locus caeruleus (p. 237.). One of these bends down- ofthe wards to the restiform body. The other, which is smaller, arises root! fr°m tne l°cus casruleus, and from the gray matter near it (upper trigeminal nucleus) which the lower part of the trochlear nerve enters ; from the gray substance in the floor of the fourth ventricle, near the hypoglossal nucleus ; and from a deeper nucleus, lower trigeminal, opposite the lower border of the pons, within the fibres continued from the lateral tract of the medulla, and of The small root begins with the fourth nerve in the upper tri- geminal nucleus, which is in front of the prolongation upwards from the locus casruleus, and anterior to the floor of the fourth ventricle. origin The sixth nerve, abducent nerve of the eyeball, springs nerve, from the pyramidal body, close to the pons, and sometimes from the lower part of the pons. Arises Deep origin. — The fibres of the nerve bend backwards, through fourth the medulla oblongata, to a nucleus in the floor of the fourth ven- e£! "~ tricle, whose position is on the outer part of the fasciculus teres, and on a level with the anterior fossa. See Anatomy of Fourth Ventricle.195 ORIGIN OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. The SEVENTH CRANIAL NERVE (Willis) appears at the Seventh lower border of the pons, near where this is joined by the has two restiform body. It consists of two distinct trunks, facial parts"' and auditory; the former being the motor nerve of the face, and the latter the special nerve for the organ of hearing. The facial nerve (portio dura, seventh nerve, Soemmer- Origin J vr of the ring) is firm and round, and smaller than the auditory, in- facial, ternal to which it is placed. It issues from the lateral tract of the medulla, close to the pons, and is connected with the lower border of the pons. The facial nerve receives a small accessory band of fibres small that is intermediate between it and the auditory (intermediate ry piece, portion of Wrisberg); it is then applied to the auditory nerve, and with it enters the internal meatus. The auditory nerve (portio mollis, eighth nerve, Soemmer- Audito- ring) has a surface attachment to the floor of the fourth ven- tricle, and the restiform body. The nerve is very soft, for it obtains its neurilemma, and thereby consistence, only in the meatus auditorius. Deep origin. — The facial nerve penetrates to the floor of the Deep fourth ventricle, and arises from the same nucleus as the sixth far<!fain.of nerve. The auditory nerve has a superficial connection with the ofaudi- white transverse fibres that issue out of the median groove in the tory* floor of the fourth ventricle. But it is connected deeply with the lower end of the gray mass, called locus cseruleus, by means of many fibres, that penetrate the upper part of the restiform body, and the lower part of the pons. It is said by some to be joined with the crus cerebelli by a fasciculus of fibres. Stilling notices gray matter in connection with its fibres, as these penetrate the pons Varolii. The eighth cranial nerve (Willis) is placed along the Eighth side of the medulla oblongata, and consists of three distinct {JaTthree trunks, glossopharyngeal, pneumo-gastric, and spinal acces- parts' sory: the names of the two first indicate their destination, whilst the last joins the pneumo-gastric, and supplies some muscles. a. The glossopharyngeal nerve (ninth nerve, Soemmerring) origin of is the smallest of the three, and is situate highest. Its phJryn- apparent origin is by three or more fibrils, which penetrate gea1' the fibres of the lateral tract, close to the facial nerve. b. The pneumo-gastric or vagus (tenth nervej Soemmer- vagus, ring) is connected with the lateral tract of the medulla, belowDISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 196 the glossopharyngeal nerve, by a series of filaments that, collected at first into bundles, are finally gathered into one flat band. spinal c. The spinal accessory nerve (eleventh nerve, Soemmer- acces- . . x sory has ring) consists oi two parts — accessory to the vagus, and parts, spinal. acces- The accessory part is of small size, and arises by fine filaments in a line with the roots of the vagus, as low as the first cervical nerve. Finally this fasciculus throws itself into the pneumo-gastric nerve outside the skull. (See p. 116.) spinal, The spinal part is firm and round, like the third or the sixth nerve, but only a small piece of it can now be seen. It takes origin, by a number of fine filaments, from the lateral surface of the cord near the fissure in this position, as low as the sixth cervical nerve. Along the side of the cord it lies between the ligamentum dentatum and the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, with the upper of which it may be some- times connected; and it finally enters the skull by the fora- men magnum. ail con- All three of the nerves converge to a spot below the crus the skill, cerebelli, where they rest on a small lobe of the cerebellum (flocculus). From that spot they are directed outwards to to the foramen lacerum jugulare (p. 20.). The deep Deep origin. — The fibres of the nerves pierce the medulla, and onsln' each nerve, except the spinal part of the last, takes origin, accord- ing to Stilling*, from a special nucleus at the back of the medulla oblongata, and near the lower angle of the fourth ventricle, of gios- The nucleus of the glossopharyngeal nerve and that of the vagus ryngeai". are m a line? one above another, outside the fasciculus teres. See of vagus, the Anatomy of the Fourth Ventricle, p. 237. of two The accessory part of the spinal accessory enters a nucleus, parts' rather below that of the vagus, which corresponds to the posterior of spinal horn of the gray substance of the cord. The spinal part of the sory?" nerve pierces at intervals the lateral column of the cord, and its roots are connected with a gray external projection near the base of the anterior cornu of the gray crescent of the cord. Ninth The NINTH Or HYPO-GLOSSAL NERVE of Willis (twelfth nerve* nerve, Soemmering) is placed on the front of the medulla oblongata, and issues by a series of filaments from the sulcus between the pyramidal and olivary bodies, in a line with the anterior roots of the spinal nerves. * Consult his treatise, Ueler den Bau der Medulla oblongata.197 MEDULLA OBLONGATA. o 3 The filaments of origin unite into two bundles, which origin separately pierce the dura mater, and do not become blended medulla, together till they are outside the cranial aperture. Deep origin.—The filaments of this nerve are traced to a nucleus origin ] in the floor of the fourth ventricle, between the groove of the from middle line and the nuclei of the glossopharyngeal and vagus ventri- nerves, which corresponds to the lower part of the fasciculus teres. cle' Section III. MEDULLA OBLONGATA AND PONS VAROLII. The medulla oblongata and the pons are interposed between the spinal cord and the brain proper ; and in these bodies the elements of the cord are re-arranged and increased in volume before entering the cerebrum and the cerebellum. Directions.— On a single brain the student may ascertain Direc. nearly all the anatomy of the parts composing the medulla tlons' and the pons.; but if he can procure one hardened specimen of the medulla and the pons united, and another of a vertical section through those same bodies, his knowledge will be much more perfect. Position.—The brain is to remain in the position in which Position of the it was placed during the examination of the nerves and the pare, vessels. The medulla oblongata is the upper dilated part of the Upper . ... Part of spinal cord which is contained in the cranium. Its limit is spinal 1 cord. the lower border of the pons in one direction, and the level situa- tion of the upper margin of the atlas in the opposite direction. This part of the cord is pyramidal in form, and measures and about one inch and a quarter in length, half an inch in thickness, and three quarters of an inch in breadth at its widest part. The larger part or the base of the medulla joins the pons, Base, the transverse fibres of the latter marking its limit; and the apex is blended with the cord at the spot before mentioned. Apex. The anterior surface is irregularly convex, and is in contact surfaces, with the hollowed basilar process of the occipital bone. The opposite surface is somewhat excavated superiorly, where it forms the floor of the fourth ventricle, and rests in the198 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. fissure between the halves of the cerebellum. On the poste- rior aspect there are not any cross fibres of the pons, as in front, to mark the extent of the medulla. Division The medulla oblongata is divided into halves by a median halves by fissure in front and behind. The fissures are in a line with nssures. ^Qse ai0J1g the cord, and their extent is influenced by the cross fibres before alluded to on the surface ; for whilst the anterior one ceases at the pons in a dilated part (foramen caecum), the posterior is prolonged behind the pons, and into the groove in the floor of the fourth ventricle. Compo- Each half of the medulla is constituted of the three segments each" °f of the spinal cord, which are continued into it; and indi- half* cations of these are still to be seen on the surface, though the names are altered, and the fibres differently arranged. Thus at the middle line in front is the anterior pyramid cor- responding to the anterior column ; at the middle line behind the restiform body, continuous with the posterior column ; and between these are the fibres of the lateral tract, with an oval projecting body (corpus olivare), on their inner side. Anterior a. The anterior pyramid is the most internal eminence, fs'most and receives its name from its form and position. Situate on the side of the median fissure, it is internal to the olivary body, from which it is separated by a slight groove. In- feriorly, the pyramid is continuous with the anterior column of the cord, and is also connected internally with some and is decussating fibres across the anterior median fissure (decus- jntemai- sation of the pyramids). Enlarging as it ascends, this body fibres, enters the pons, but, before disappearing beneath the trans- verse fibres, it is somewhat constricted and rounded. Lateral j 0% Lateral tract and olivary body. — The lateral tract tract t i? v (funiculus lateralis), continuous with the lateral column of the cord, fills the interval between the anterior pyramid and the restiform body; but its width at the surface is not the same throughout. Opposite the lower part of the medulla varies in oblongata, it is equal in size to each of the other constituent slze bodies before and behind it; but near the pons its width is diminished, so that it occupies, on the surface, only the hollow between the outer side of the olivary, and the resti- and form body. Its direction also is not vertical, for it is inclined course. . ,. backwards above, as if it was pushed out of the straight line by the projecting olivary body.199 MEDULLA OBLONGATA. o 4 The olivary body (corpus olivare) is the oval projection olivary close to the anterior pyramid. A shallow groove separates it from the pyramid, and a deeper and wider one is between it and the restiform body. This eminence is shorter than does not * . . reach the pyramid, and does not reach to the pons : its upper end is pons, most prominent, and arching round the lower end, or some~ some times over the surface, are some white fibres (fibrse arci- fibre? formes). c. Restiform body and posterior pyramid.—The restiform Resti- body (restis, a rope) forms the largest prominence on the half body is of the medulla oblongata, and cannot be seen satisfactorily est piece, except on a distinct preparation. This body is posterior to the lateral tract, and projects laterally, so as to give the greater width to the upper part of the medulla oblongata. The restiform swelling is continuous inferiorly with the of what ° . . Parts i(; posterior column of the spinal cord; and superiorly it consists, appears to be continued into the pons, like the other seg- ments of the medulla oblongata; but the disposition of its fibres at this part will be subsequently referred to. Below the level of the olivary body it is divided into two parts by a distinct groove on the surface ; one of these, the smaller and posterior of the two, is the funiculus gracilis, or the posterior pyramid ; and the anterior and larger part, has been named funiculus cuneatus (Burdach). Between the restiform bodies, at the back of the medulla, is the space of the fourth ventricle. The posterior pyramid (funic, gracilis) is a con- Poste- tinuation of that part of the spinal cord which is close to the ramidis close to posterior median fissure. By drawing forwards the medulla, posterior r . . . median or using a separate piece of hardened medulla, the pyramid fissure, will be seen to be slightly enlarged (clava) at the apex of the fourth ventricle, where the restiform bodies diverge, and then to become gradually indistinct on the surface of the corpus restiforme. Where the posterior pyramidal bodies separate they are con- obex nected by an intervening band or cross piece (obex, Riegel of the Germans), that closes behind the point of the fourth ventricle. A little higher on each side is a thin lamina of nervous substance (taenia, ligula), which is about a line in width, and forms part of tamia : the roof of the fourth ventricle; this membranous sheet is at- tached by one edge to the hinder part of the restiform body, but ofpyra- is free by the other, where it is connected with the vascular fold mids' of the ventricle.DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 200 Fibres of Structure. — The elements of the spinal cord, viz. ante- duiia. rior, middle, and posterior columns, are continued into the lower part of the medulla oblongata, where they can at first be recognised; but they soon become mixed together, and have an arrangement different from that of the cord. Dissec- Dissection. — In the pyramid two sets of fibres have to be trace shown, — one from the same, and one from the opposite side pyra- of the cord. The fibres from the opposite half of the cord will appear in the median fissure, when the pyramids are gently drawn one from another, where they are named the decussating fibres; and to lay these bare more completely, the small part of the anterior column of the cord on their side, that remains below the cross fibres (for the cord has been cut through near these), may be forcibly detached from its position, and turned outwards. The fibres to the pyramid from the same half of the cord will be demonstrated by evert- ing the anterior column below the decussation, as on the other side. Fibres of The anterior pyramid receives fibres, inferiorly, from the pyramid, anterior column of the cord of its own side, and, internally, from the lateral column of the opposite half of the cord. The Deriva- inner set of fibres are deep at their origin, but they become superficial in the median fissure, and are then directed up- wards, close to that fissure, so as to push outwards the inferior fibres continued from the anterior column ; and as the inner fibres of each pyramid are derived from the lateral column of the opposite side, they must cross one another in the anterior median fissure of the spinal cord : —thus they form the decussation of the pyramids, anddis. The pyramid is continued into both the cerebrum and tionU" cerebellum. Its fibres are white and longitudinal, and are collected into a bundle of a prismatic form. Superiorly, most of the fibres enter the pons, to reach the cerebrum, but two offsets proceed from the outer side. One is very small and superficial, and is directed below the corpus olivare to the restiform body and the cerebellum ; the other invests the olivary body so as to be thickest on the sides, and receiving a band from it, enters the pons as the olivary fasciculus, or the fillet. olivary The olivary body, and its fillet. — When the olivary body body has been sliced obliquely, it will be seen to consist of a wavyMEDULLA OBLONGATA. 201 yellowish line, surrounding a centre or nucleus of whitish matter ; and this toothed appearance has been named corpus clentatum. The zigzag bounding line forms a capsule or j,^ bag, with the dilated part towards the surface, and the j^c open narrowed part or neck open and directed backward. A band a band of fibres issues from the nucleus by the aperture in the from jt. posterior part of the capsule, and unites with the longitudinal fibres of the pyramid investing the corpus olivare, to form the olivary fasciculus, or the fillet, and through it to reach the cerebrum. Dissection. — For the purpose of seeing the arrangement Dissec- of the fibres of the lateral column and the restiform body, lateral the anterior pyramid is to be cut across on the left side, be- u?orm's~ tween its decussation and the olivary body, and to be raised pieces* together with this body towards the pons. Afterwards the remaining part of the pyramid is to be separated by dividing the fibres it receives from the decussation. The lateral tract of the medulla is continuous inferiorly Lateral with the part of the spinal cord between the anterior and cord posterior roots of the nerves, and is prolonged superiorly in greater part to the cerebrum, but it gives an offset to the cerebellum. Soon after entering the medulla oblongata, it is divided into three sets of fibres, external and internal, and middle. The external fibres are both superficial and deep, and, joining the restiform body, reach the cerebellum ; the are much internal offset enters the pyramid of the opposite side ; wrhilst medulla, the middle fibres, the continuation of the column, ascend beneath the olivary body, and leaving the surface of the *n^ass medulla at the pons, incline backwards and inwards to the floor of the fourth ventricle (where they form the eminentia teres), in their course to the cerebrum. The decussation of the pyramids is formed by the crossing Decussa- of the internal fibres of the lateral columns before they enter pyramids the pyramid of the opposite side. This interweaving of the by late- fibreS occupies the anterior groove of the medulla oblongata, lumns. at the distance of three quarters of an inch from the pons, and is about a quarter of an inch in length. In it will be found three or four bundles of fibres from each side. The restiform body is divided between the cerebrum and Resti- the cerebellum. Inferiorly, it is continuous with the poste- body rior column of the cord; and accessory fibres are continued202 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. to it, in front, from the anterior pyramid, and from the enters lateral column. Superiorly, its fibres are continued to both cere- 1 * brum the large and the small brain in the following manner: — The wedge-shaped part (funic, cuneatus) divides into two rather above the point of the fourth ventricle ; the external and cere- offset bends outwards to the cerebellum without entering the pons, whilst the inner one is continued with the slender fasciculus (funic, gracilis, p. 199.) or posterior pyramid, along the floor of the fourth ventricle, with the fasciculus teres of the same side, into the peduncular fibres of the cerebrum (p. 208.> Commis- Arched or commissural fibres of the medulla. In each fibres, half of the medulla oblongata are fibres directed almost hori- zontally, from behind forwards, both on its exterior, and through its substance. And in the middle line the same system of fibres forms a septum or raphe between the oppo- site halves. Origin The transverse fibres, both outer and inner, seem to be derived Arrange, from the restiform body and the crus cerebelli: — the external set outer set more or less marked in different bodies cross, on the front of the medulla, the olivary and pyramidal bodies, and some may be seen entering the median fissure; below the olivary body they often form a band, the fibrce arciformes of Rolando. At the back of the medulla some may be seen issuing from the median fissure, and crossing that part, to enter the auditory nerve and the crus cere- and in- belli. The internal set can be seen only on sections of the hardened ner set. prepared medulla : they penetrate all the fibres of the medulla, except the anterior pyramid, and end at the middle line; in their course they perforate the gray capsule of the olivary body as well as its contiguous deposit, and are said by Stilling to constitute the white substance of the former. Septal The septum consists of both antero-posterior and transverse fibres, fibres. antero-posterior reach from the one median fissure to the other, and consist of two strata, one casing each half of the medulla. These fibres are continuous with the external set, but some of the inner transverse seem to be added to them. Between the two strata of antero-posterior fibres is a slight interval, which is oc- cupied by the inner transverse fibres, that cross from the one half to the other of the medulla. Gray Gray matter of medulla oblongata. — In the medulla ob- matter, iongata ^ere js ^e continuation of the gray matter in the kTnds • interior of the spinal cord, and there are also some specialPONS VAROLII. 203 deposits. Cross sections would be required to see completely its arrangement. In the lower part of the medulla the gray substance has the some same arrangement as lower down in the cord, but it gradually ous^th loses the regular arrangement and becomes blended with the white ^0fdm substance. Thus the part corresponding to the central or trans- verse commissure of the cord is laid bare, behind, in the fourth ventricle, in consequence of the restiform bodies being removed from the middle line ; there it forms a stratum for the floor of that space and is continued specially amongst the fibres of the lateral tracts. The crescentic half of the gray matter of* the cord, more especially its hinder part, comes to occupy the restiform body, and then to be continued upwards amongst the fibres. In the restiform body it reaches the surface as a gray streak (gray tubercle of Rolando). The special deposits are at the fore and hinder parts : — Those Special behind are chiefly nerve nuclei, and will be noticed wii^h the fourth sits ; ventricle (p. 237.) ; those in front are in connection with the an- behmd' terior pyramids, or with fibres derived from these — Firstly, there before- is the thin wavy stratum, that" forms the corpus dentatum in the olivary body (p. 200.). Next, outside this, and towards its upper and outer end, is another small collection (olivennebenkern, Stil.), which appears as a flattened yellow streak, and has the same struc- ture as the dark stratum of the olivary body. Lastly, Stilling de- scribes one collection in the anterior pyramid, near the olivary body; and another, external to the nucleus by the side of the olivary body, in the fibres that are continued from the pyramid around the olivary body. PONS VAROLII. The pons, or annular protuberance (pons Varolii, no- Pons ? dus encephali), is situate above the medulla oblongata, and between the hemispheres of the cerebellum. Whilst in its position, natural position it fills the hollow in front of the tentorium cerebelli. It is nearly of a square shape, though it is rather form, widest from side to side, and measures two inches in the last direction. The anterior surface is grooved along the middle surfaces line, and is received into the basilar hollow in the base of the skull. By the opposite surface the pons enters into the fourth ventricle, forming part of the floor of that space. The upper and border is longest and most curved, and arches over theborders' cerebral peduncles ; and the lower border overlays the pro-204 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. longations of the medulla oblongata. On each side is the cms cerebelli, whose fibres radiate over the surface. Itis Structure.—In the pons are alternating strata of trans- tyiongi- verse and longitudinal fibres: the transverse set are continu- ant1 ous with the fibres of the crus cerebelli, and are interspersed verse" with much gray matter; the longitudinal are prolonged fibres- from the constituent bodies of the medulla oblongata. Dissec- Dissection. — The transverse fibres of the pons may be expose divided along the line of the pyramidal body of the left side, fibres, and turned outwards, so as to denude the longitudinal fibres of the pyramid. In like manner a second mass of transverse fibres, which lie below those of the pyramid (the first set of longitudinal ones) may be cut through outside the pyramidal; and the deep fibres of the lateral and posterior columns of the cord (a second longitudinal set) will appear. Amongst that set of longitudinal fibres is the fillet of the corpus olivare, which the dissector should attempt to trace upwards from this body. The superficial fibres of the pons can be seen on the side that is untouched, ^he The transverse fibres of the annular protuberance are fibres co^ecte^ chiefly into two strata — a superficial and deep, form a which are united in the middle line : they serve as commis- sural fibres of the cerebellum, and are derived from the crus or middle peduncle of that body. There are a few other transverse, that will be described with the septum. Sa^and ^e suPerncial set are mostly horizontal, but some from the lower part of the crus ascend obliquely over the others to reach the upper margin of the pons, deep The deep layer is thickest, and contains much gray matter between its fibres. Three The longitudinal fibres consist of three sets, viz. one from longitu- the anterior pyramidal body ; another from the lateral and fibres, posterior columns of the cord ; and a third from the corpus olivare. These are not simply continued through the pons, but are increased in number by the addition of special fibres (peduncular, Stilling), that begin in the upper two thirds of the pons and join them on the outer side. It is said by some, that the transverse fibres of the pons become longitudinal, and thus increase the number, terio/"" a* ^res of the anterior pyramid pass through the pyramid pons between the two sets of transverse fibres, but not as205 THE CEREBRUM. one mass, for they are divided into a number of small bundles in their progress. Much increased in number, the fibres enter the crus cerebri at the upper border of the pons, and give rise to that fasciculated surface of the peduncle, which is now uppermost. h. The ascending fibres of the lateral and posterior columns from ia. of the cord are altogether deeper than the commissural fibres o?spinal of the pons, and are mixed up with gray matter ; they are also more numerous than the preceding set. These fibres pro- ject close to the middle line, in the floor of the fourth ven- tricle, and form the eminence of the fasciculus teres ; from that spot they are continued upwards to the crus cerebri, where they enter its deeper or cerebral part. In the pons and Pos. a band from the olivary fasciculus is added to these fibres. part c. The olivary fasciculus (fillet, p. 200.) divides into two from slips in the pons. One passes backwards to the upper (in body!7 this position deeper) part of the crus cerebri, and ends in and beneath the corpora quadrigemina (p. 226.). The other is continued to the cerebrum with the fibres of the lateral column. Septum, — In the pons, as in the medulla oblongata, there septum is a septum between the halves, but only at the posterior ° P°ns* part, for anteriorly the transverse or commissural fibres of opposite sides are continuous. It consists like that of the medulla oblongata of antero-posterior and transverse fibres. The antero-posterior fibres are derived partly from the floor of Antero- posterior the fourth ventricle ; and partly from the transverse of the pons, fibres, that bend backwards for a certain distance before they cross to the opposite side. The transverse fibres of the pons, opposite the septum, are very Trans- slender, and are seen only on transverse sections of a hardened pons; they come from the floor of the fourth ventricle, pierce the longitudinal fibres, and are then continued across the middle line, between the antero-posterior, as in the medulla oblongata. Section IV. DISSECTION OF THE CEREBRUM. The cerebrum, or the great brain, is the largest of the parts situa- into which the encephalon is subdivided. It may be said to the cere- fill that part of the cavity of the skull, which is above a cir- UDISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 206 cular line on a level with the eyebrows and the occipital protuberance. Form: Taking the general form of the skull, the cerebrum is convex on the upper aspect, and uneven on the lower aspect, has two It consists of two hemispheres, which are placed side by spheres side, and are partly separated by a median or longitudinal median7 fissure ; but in the middle line these are united by certain parts, interior parts (commissures), as well as by several connecting structures at the under surface. Superiorly, the surface of the hemisphere is entire, but inferiorly it is divided into lobes. Under UNDER SURFACE, Or BASE OF THE CEREBRUM.—At its ofrce?e- under part the cerebrum is very irregular, in consequence of brum# its fitting into the inequalities of the base of the skull; and on this aspect the separation into hemispheres is not com- plete, as on the upper surface, for the median fissure exists only at the fore and hinder part. The following objects are to be recognised at the base of the brain : — Division On the under surface of each hemisphere, about one third hemi. from its front, is the fissure of Sylvius, which divides it into sphere. Qf these the fore part constitutes the anterior lobe; and the hinder large part consists of middle and posterior lobes, but there is not any groove to mark the separation between these, and the anterior border of the cerebellum is taken as the limit between the one and the other. And In the middle line, in front of the pons, are the two large along the white masses of the peduncles of the cerebrum (crura cere- line. bri), one belonging to each hemisphere; and between them is a space perforated by vessels, which is named locus per- foratus posticus. Outside the peduncle is the optic tract, and between it and the inner part of the hemisphere is a fissure leading into the lateral ventricle. Proceeding for- wards in the middle line, the student will find two white bodies like peas, the corpora albicantia, and in front of these a grayish mass, called tuber cinereum. From the tuber cinereum a conical reddish tube, the infundibulum, descends to the pituitary body in the sella Turcica of the sphenoid bone. Anterior to this same mass (tuber cinereum), are the converging optic tracts with their commissure. Beneath the commissure of the optic nerves lies a thin grayish layerBASE OF THE CEREBRUM. 207 (lamina cinerea) ; and still farther forwards is the anterior part of the great longitudinal fissure between the hemi- spheres, with the white corpus callosum in the bottom of it. At the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius is another spot, perforated by vessels, and distinguished by the name locus perforatus anticus. Parts of some special convolutions may now be seen. Parts of A convolu- One convolution, that of the corpus callosum (gyrus forni- tions of i ,. . . corpus catus), is visible at its beginning and ending; its anterior callosum part is in contact with the body from which it takes its name, and its posterior extremity rests on the outer side of the crus cerebri. Another is the convolution of the margin of the great of medt- median fissure, wrhich is bare at its anterior part, and con- sure," tains the olfactory nerve in a groove on its surface. A third large convolution surrounds the fissure of Sylvius ; of fissure and in that fissure are some other small convolutions, which Sg/yln" will be examined with it. The several parts of the base of the brain are now to be noticed more in detail. Lobes of the cerebrum. — There are three lobes in each Three hemisphere, but this division into parts is confined to its ladfm under aspect. The anterior lobe is triangular in form, and sphere ; the apex is turned backwards ; it is somewhat excavated on anterior, the surface now seen, which, in the natural position of the brain, rests on the orbital plate of the frontal bone. The olfactory nerve lies near the inner margin. The middle lobe middle, is the most prominent of the three, and projected before the brain was removed, into the middle fossa of the base of the skull. The fissure of Sylvius intervenes between it and the anterior lobe. The posterior lobe has no fissure to separate poste- it from the middle one; its extent forwards is determined, as before said, by the anterior or outer margin of the cere- : " bellum. This lobe would not be in contact with the base of the skull, supposing it in position, but would be supported on the tentorium cerebelli. The fissure of Sylvius is directed outwards between the Fissure . . . ofSyl- anterior and middle lobes, and branches externally into two vius parts, one of which passes before, and the other behind some small convolutions, to which the term island of Reil has been applied. At the inner extremity of the fissure is a narrowed208 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. point, corresponding to a subjacent band of white fibres (fasciculus uncinatus) that connects the two lobes, issur- Surrounding the cleft is the convolution of the Sylvian bv a con- fissure, which is much bent as it makes the circuit; it is vo 'joined internally by the convolutions in the fissure, and ex- ternally by convolutions on the outer surface of the hemi- sphere of the cerebrum, and con- The island of Reil consists of five or six small, short con- fer volutions, which lie in the Sylvian fissure, and are concealed tions?lu" by tne anterior and middle lobes in the natural condition of the parts. These convolutions are connected with the large convolution around the fissure. Cms Peduncle of the cerebrum (crus cerebri). This is a large, iTixl\ white, stalk-like looking body, which reaches from the upper under border of the pons to the under part of the cerebral hemi- hem£f sphere, of the same side, near its inner margin. Each is sphere. akout three quarters of an inch long, and widens as it ap- proaches the cerebrum. Crossing its outer surface is the optic tract; and between the crura of opposite sides is the interpeduncular space, which contains the locus perforatus, the corpora albicantia, and the tuber cinereum. Formed Structure. — The peduncle may be said to be formed by a tudinai1" continuation upwards of the longitudinal fibres of the pons, fibres' which enclose here a mass of gray matter between them. Dissec- Dissection For the purpose of demonstrating the struc- tlon* ture of the crus, say on the left side, the fibres continuous with the anterior pyramid should be cut across in the pons, and should be raised and carried forwards into the crus as far as the optic tract. In this proceeding the mass of gray matter (locus niger) will appear, and beneath it will be seen a second or deeper set of longitudinal fibres, its su- a. The superficial fibres, which form the cranial or free fibres part of the crus, are continued from the anterior pyramidal body. They are longitudinal in direction, and coarse in texture, and are directed upwards radiating to the cerebrum. The portion of the crus, which is composed of these fibres, is called the fasciculated portion, or the crust. deep b. The deeper fibres are also prolonged to the cerebrum. They are derived from the lateral and posterior tracts or columns of the medulla oblongata, and from the olivary fasciculus (p. 200.); and some of the fibres of the lateral form crust fibres209 BASE OF THE CEREBRUM. tract of one side cross offsets from the tract of the other, so that there is a decussation, like that in the pyramids, across the middle line, and the peduncle consequently contains fibres that are continued into both sides of the medulla ob- longata.* In addition to those fibres derived from the me- dulla oblongata, are others coming from the cerebellum, which decussate across the middle line, and mix with the former (see p. 235.). The fibres obtained from these sources are situate beneath (as now seen) the gray matter : besides being deeper, they are finer than the superficial set, and are interspersed with gray matter. The deeper part of the crus, form teg. viz. that at the cerebral aspect, is constructed by these fibres, and is named tegmentum. c. The gray matter of the crus (locus niger) is nearer the The gray inner than the outer margin, and is convex towards the free surface, but concave in the opposite direction. The posterior perforated spot (pons Tarini) is situate be- Locus tween the peduncles of the cerebrum ; it consists of grayish tus.°ra matter, into which numerous vessels enter. This structure corresponds to part of the floor of the third ventricle. The corpora albicantia (corp. mamillaria) are two small, Corpora white bodies, about the size of peas, which are formed, as it tia. will be afterwards seen, in greater part by the crus of the fornix. If one, say the left, is cut across, it will be found to contain gray matter. In front of them is a mass of gray substance, and behind they are connected together by white substance. The tuber cinereum, or the mass of gray matter behind Tuber 7 ° J cine- the optic commissure, forms part of the floor of the third reum ventricle, and is continuous with the gray substance in that cavity. In front of it is the optic nerve, and from its centre projects the following: — The infundibulum (funnel) is a ^nddi.^- conically-shaped tube, that reaches to the upper part of the ium. posterior lobe of the pituitary body. In the fetus this tube is open between the third ventricle and the pituitary body, but in the adult it is closed inferiorly. It consists of a layer * This is part of the median commissure of M. Foville, which reaches through the medulla oblongata, pons, and cerebral peduncles. See the work of M. Foville, entitled : Traite complet de VAnatomie, fyc, du S^s- teme Nerveux cerebrospinal, p. 323.DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 210 of gray matter, surrounded by the pia mater, and is lined by the membrane of the third ventricle as far as it is pervious. Pitui- The pituitary body will be very imperfectly seen when it body. has been removed from its resting-place : therefore it should be sometimes examined in the base of the skull, by removing the surrounding bone. Its use is unknown. This body is situate in the hollow in the centre of the sphenoid bone (the sella Turcica), and consists of two lobes, anterior and posterior. The anterior is the largest, and is hollowed out behind, where it receives the posterior lobe. In the adult this mass is firm and solid in texture, and red- dish in colour; but in the fetus it is hollow, and opens into the third ventricle through the infundibulum. struc- This structure is firm and reddish externally, but softer and yellowish internally. In it are large vesicular nucleated bodies, which are imbedded in a granular matrix. Dissec- Dissection. — To see the lamina cinerea and the anterior termination of the corpus callosum, the convolutions of the anterior lobe of the cerebrum may be removed on the left side, where they overlay those parts. The convolution (gyrus fornicatus) in contact with the corpus callosum may be divided, and its ends turned forwards and backwards. Gray The lamina cinerea is a thin layer of gray matter, that extends backwards from the anterior termination of the corpus callosum to the tuber cinereum. This structure closes the anterior part of the third ventricle, and is con- tinuous laterally with the anterior perforated spot. In con- sequence of its great thinness, this structure is often broken through in removing the brain, corpus" The corpus callostim is now seen to be bent in front, and then to be extended horizontally backwards in the longi- tudinal fissure to a spot within a quarter of an inch of the anterior commissure, where it presents a well-marked con- ends in- cave margin, to which the lamina cinerea is joined. A white jn two band, fillet or peduncle of the corpus callosum, is continued onwards, on each side, from the line of termination before alluded to, to the anterior perforated spot. To the anterior bend of the corpus callosum the term knee (genu) is applied, and to the prolonged central part the appellation beak (ros- andex. trum) has been given. Laterally, the corpus callosum teraiiy reaches into the anterior lobe, and bounds the lateral ven-211 UPPER SURFACE OF THE CEREBRUM. p 2 tricle in the same direction, so that an incision through it into would open that cavity. In contact with this now denuded sphere, surface of the corpus callosum is the convolution, named volution, gyrus fornicatus, which may be seen to begin by a narrow part in front of the anterior perforated spot. Anterior perforated spot (locus perforatus anticus) is a Locus space near the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius, which is tus anticus. situate between the anterior and middle lobes of the cere- brum, and in front of the optic tract. On the inner side it is continuous with the lamina cinerea, and crossing it, from within outwards, is the fillet of the corpus callosum. This space is gray on the surface, and corresponds to the corpus striatum in the interior of the brain; it is perforated by numerous vessels for that body. Position of the part.—Now the base of the cerebrum has Position . ot brain been dissected, the brain should be turned over for the ex- to ex- amine amination of the upper part. After the brain has been upper turned, something should be placed beneath the anterior lobes, in order that they may be raised to the same level as the posterior; and a cloth rolled up, should encircle the whole, to support the hemispheres. Upper Surface of the Cerebrum. — On the upper sur- cere- face, the cerebrum, taken as a whole, is oval in form, with con™xs the larger end backwards, and is convex in its outline, in and du accordance with the shape of the skull. The cerebral mass is into two. only partly separated into two portions or hemispheres by a median longitudinal fissure, for the corpus callosum extends from one hemisphere to another, and interrupts the depth of the fissure at the middle part, but before and behind that connecting piece its separation into two halves is complete. Each hemisphere is smaller in front than behind. Its Each outer surface is convex ; but the inner is flat, an in contact with the opposite hemisphere at the fore part. On the upper aspect the surface of the hemisphere is not cleft by fissures into lobes, but on the under aspect it is separated into two pieces by the large sulcus before seen. The super- is ficies of the hemisphere is marked by tortuous eminences, by con- similar to those of the convoluted small intestine, so that the and sulci, brain has the appearance of consisting of a somewhat rounded tube, bent and twisted in different directions ; the projections212 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. tion on it are named convolutions or gyri, and the intervening depressions, sulci or anfractuosities. chief Convolutions, — Of the numerous convolutions the student tions. " may notice the following as the most regular: — one on the corpus callosum; another at the margin of the longitudinal fissure; and some others on the outer surface of the hemi- sphere. The convolution of the Sylvian fissure has been already noticed (p. 208.). Disseo Dissection.—The upper part of each hemisphere having been already cut off as low as the convolution of the corpus callosum, that convolution is to be cut through on the left side, and its ends turned forwards and backwards; a white longitudinal band (covered band of Reil) will be seen beneath it. It is supposed that the top of one hemisphere has been kept for the purpose of examining the convolutions. Convo- a, The convolution of the corpus callosum (gyrus fornicatus) ex- ofcorpus tends around the root of the hemisphere, except at the fissure of sum°" Sylvius. It is narrow in front, and begins at the anterior per- forated spot; then courses round the corpus callosum and the crus cerebri, and ends at the posterior part of the same spot. Whilst lying on the inner surface of the hemisphere, it is joined by the its fillet: convolutions of that part. Beneath this convolution is a band of or band. £kres (COvered band of Reil, fillet of the corpus callosum), which is connected in front and behind with the anterior perforated spot, and gives offsets to the other secondary convolutions in the median longitudinal fissure. Convo- ft- The convolution of the margin of the longitudinal fissure takes }on^tu°f a shnilar course with the preceding around the hemisphere,-but it fissure ^es at ^e margm °f tne great median fissure, instead of being placed deeply in it. Commencing at the anterior perforated spot, where it forms the inner part of the anterior lobe (p. 207.), it is directed back along the margin of the great fissure, and along the under part of the hemisphere to the front of the middle lobe. This is not so distinct as the preceding convolution. Convo- c. The convolutions of the outer surface of the hemisphere cross outerS °f more or less obliquely, from the convolution of the margin of the cere-°f grea^ median fissure to the convolution of the Sylvian fissure, brum. The posterior are most oblique and become irregular. On opposite sides of the brain these convolutions are not symmetrical. Aeon- Structure of the convolutions.—From the section now has base made into the brain, it may be perceived that each convo- summit : lution is continuous with the interior of the brain on the one side (base), and that it is free on the surface of the brain onINTERIOR OF THE CEREBRUM. 213 the other side, where it presents a summit and lateral parts. Externally it consists of a layer of grayish cerebral substance is gray (cortical layer), which is continued from one eminence to another over the surface of the hemisphere; and internally and it is composed of white cerebral substance (medullary part), within, that is derived from the fibrous mass in the interior. On a closer examination the cortical layer is found to be its struc- composed of three strata: an outer white stratum, an inner reddish-yellow one, and an intervening gray lamina:—The outer white stratum differs in development in different parts of the brain, and is most marked over the hinder and lower portion of the convolution of the corpus callosum, where it is pierced by minute holes. The inner stratum equals in thickness the other two, and has on its external surface also a thin white lamina, so that white and gray laminas will alternate with one another in the gray matter of the con- volutions. The sulci, or the intervals between the convolutions, vary Sulci, in size in different parts of the brain; they are deepest generally on the outer aspect of the hemisphere, where they measure about an inch. There is one of considerable depth on the inner surface of The the hemisphere, on a level with the corpus callosum, which where projects inwards beneath an eminence (hippocampus minor) in the floor of the lateral ventricle. From it another sulcus is directed vertically upwards to the convex part of the hemisphere. Interior of the Cerebrum. — When viewed from the compo. outer surface, the cerebrum appears, as before said, to be a twisted tube, but when a cut has been made into it, it will be found to be solid in texture, with a convoluted crust or exterior. Each half of the brain consists of a foot stalk or peduncle, outline i e ofhemi- and oi a dilated part or hemisphere; and the following de- sphere, scription may serve as an outline of the general arrangement of its constituents:—connected with the base of the foot stalk, where it joins the hemisphere, are certain central or fundamental bodies; and in the interior are some connecting pieces, that join together distant parts of the brain. In the interior, is a large central space, which is subdivided into p 3214 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. smaller hollows or ventricles by the before mentioned con- necting pieces. And the whole, except the foot stalk, is surrounded by a convoluted crust. Funda- The fundamental parts of the hemisphere are the crus bodies, cerebri, and the two masses of gray substance (corpus stri- atum and optic thalamus), which are situate above the crus : the two last bodies are sometimes called ganglia of the brain, because the fibres of the peduncle, whilst passing through and com-them, are increased in number. The connecting pieces, sures. which are named commissures, pass from hemisphere to hemisphere, across the middle line of the brain, or connect together the parts of the same half of the cerebrum: some of the commissural pieces serve as bounding parts of the ventricles. In conducting the dissection of the cerebrum, the student will have to learn the form and situation of the several constituent parts, and afterwards to trace the connections between these by means of fibres. Centrum Hemisphere above the ventricles. — In the right hemi- minus sphere, which has been cut through above the level of the hemi- convolution of the corpus callosum, the surface displays a sphere. wj1«^e central mass of an oval shape (centrum ovale minus), that sends projections into the several convolutions. In a fresh brain, this surface is studded with drops of blood which escape from the divided vessels. Centrum When the hemispheres have been sliced off to the level of majus the corpus callosum, a much larger white surface comes into is deeper. vjew^ nas been named larger oval centre (centrum ovale, Vieussens). The white mass in each hemisphere may be further seen to be continuous across the middle line of the brain, where it is connected by a narrowed part,—the corpus callosum. Corpus The corpus callosum reaches from the one half of the sum°.~ cerebrum to the other, and forms the roof of a space (lateral ventricle) in each hemisphere. But between the halves of the brain, where it occupies the longitudinal fissure, this situa. body is but of small extent. Here it is about four inches in length, and somewhat arched from before backwards; it is form. a]g0 narrower jn front than behind, and extends nearer to the anterior than the posterior part of the cerebrum, upper On the upper surface the fibres are seen to be directed Surface215 CORPUS CALLOSUM. has trans- from the hemispheres to the middle line, the middle ones being transverse, but those from the anterior and posterior parts oblique. Along the middle is a mark or raphe, and close to it are two or more longitudinal white lines (nerves verse ° v and of Lancisi). Still further out may be seen other longitu- d°JJ|itu- dinal lines (covered band, p. 212.) beneath the convolution fibres. resting on the lateral part of the corpus callosum. The longitudinal fibres in the middle line are continued down- wards anteriorly, and join the prolongation from the covered band or fillet to the anterior perforated spot. In front, the corpus callosum is bent to the base of the p^6"01* brain, as before seen (p. 210.); and behind, it ends in a ^dns thick roll which is connected with the subjacent fornix. Dissection.—In order to see the thickness of the corpus Dissec- r tion. callosum, and to bring into view the parts in contact with its under surface, the cut already made through that body into the ventricle is to be extended forwards and backwards on the left side, as far as the limits of the cavity. Whilst cutting through the corpus callosum, the student may ob- serve that a thin membraniform structure lines its under surface. The corpus callosum is thicker at each end than at the thick. L e est at centre, in consequence of a greater number of fibres being each collected in a given space; and the posterior part is the thickest of all. Connected with the under surface is the Under part. partition between the ventricles (septum lucidum), and still posterior to that is the fornix. This body is the chief commissural part of the halves ofTs the' the brain, and reaches laterally even to the convolutions, but its fibres are not distinct far in the hemisphere. Dissection. — The lateral ventricle is to be dissected in J?on.ec" the opposite hemisphere, and to prepare it for examination, as much of the corpus callosum and of the white substance of the brain, as form the roof of the cavity, are to be re- moved. A part of the ventricular space dips down in the middle lobe of the cerebrum towards the base of the brain; and to open it, a cut is to be carried outwards through the substance of the left hemisphere, and then downwards, also through the hemisphere, along the course of the hollow. Ventricles of the Brain.—The ventricular spaces in Five the interior of the cerebrum are derived, as before explained, SEfSte p 4 trans- j verse commis- sure.216 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. in the from the subdivision of the large central space, and are four in number. One extends into both halves of the brain ; but commonly the part in each hemisphere is described as a separate ventricle (the lateral), so that these constitute the first and second. Another (third) occupies the middle line of the brain near the under surface; and another small one (fifth) is included in the partition between the large ven- tricle of the hemispheres. The fourth ventricle is situate between the cerebellum and the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata and pons. Lateral The lateral ventricles are two in number, one occupying ^ntn" each hemisphere; they are incompletely separated in the middle line by a septum, for they communicate by an aper- ture below that partition. The interior is lined by a thin stratum of nucleated epithelium, with, in some spots, a sub- jacent stratum of areolar tissue, shape Each is a narrow interval, which extends into the anterior, sUion°;" posterior, and middle lobes of the corresponding hemisphere. Its central part (body) is almost straight, but the points (cornua) by which it reaches into the different lobes are three curved. There are three cornua in each, corresponding to cornua. t . . the half of the cerebrum, which have the following disposi- tions : — The anterior is directed outwards from its fellow in the anterior lobe. The posterior (digital cavity) is much smaller in size, and is bent inwards in the posterior lobe, towards the one of the opposite side. And the inferior cornu, beginning opposite the posterior fold of the corpus callosum, descends in a curved direction in the middle lobe, with the concavity of the bend turned inwards. Consists For the purpose of examining its boundaries, the ventricle parts? may be divided into an upper or horizontal, and a lower or descending part. one is The upper or horizontal part reaches from the anterior zontai. into the posterior lobe, and is shaped something like the Its roof; Italic letter f. Its roof is formed by the corpus callosum. floor, Its floor is irregular in outline, and presents, from before and backwards, the following parts:—first, a small piece of the ai°ongSit. under part of the corpus callosum; next, a large gray, pear- shaped body, the corpus striatum; behind this, another large white projection, named optic thalamus ; and between these two last bodies is a white line, tsenia semicircularis. OnLATEKAL VENTRICLE. 217 the surface of the optic thalamus is a vascular fold of the pia mater, known as the plexus choroides, together with the thin white edge of the fornix. Close behind the optic tha- lamus is the beginning of a projection (hippocampus), that will be seen in the floor of the descending part of the lateral ventricle; and in the posterior cornu is an elongated emi- nence, the hippocampus minor. The inner boundary of the inner ventricle, or the septum ventriculorum, is a thin partition, ary. which has been named septum lucidum ; below the anterior part of this partition, opposite the front of the optic thala- Aper- mus, is the aperture of communication between the two tween. lateral ventricles (foramen of Monro). The lower or descending part of the ventricle winds be- The • neath the optic thalamus, and forms a curve like the half- ing part; bent fore finger. Forming the roof, will be the optic thala- roof, mus and the contiguous part of the hemisphere. In the floor, floor is a large curved, convex eminence, somewhat indented at the end, which is called the hippocampus major; and along its concave margin is a thin white band (taenia), that is prolonged from the fornix. External to the projection of andbo- the hippocampus is another white eminence, the pes acces- u.es °n sorius, or eminentia collaterals. In this part of the ven- tricle the vascular fringe of the plexus choroides will be also seen: it enters by a fissure internal to the hippocampus. The septum lucidum, or the thin partition between the septum ventricles, is a translucent part of the cerebral matter, which hangs vertically, in the middle line, between the corpus cal- position, losum and the fornix. It is somewhat triangular in form, form, with the larger part turned forwards, and the narrow or pointed extremity directed backwards. Its surfaces look to surfaces, the lateral ventricles. The upper border is attached altoge- borders, ther to the under aspect of the corpus callosum ; and the lower border is joined to the fornix, but only in part, for, in front of that body it is connected with the under or pro- longed portion (rostrum) of the corpus callosum. The sep- stra- tum consists of two layers, which enclose a space (fifth ven- tricle), and each layer is formed of white substance, with an external coating of gray matter. Dissection. — The space of the fifth ventricle will come Dissec- into view by cutting through the part of the corpus callo- non* sum, that remains in the middle line, and by detaching the218 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. anterior half from the septum lucidum, so that it can be raised forwards. Fifth The ventricle of the septum (fifth ventricle) exists in the tncie. anterior part of the ventricular partition, where the depth is greatest. Like the septum that contains it, its largest part is in front. In the adult it is distinct from the other ven- tricles, but in the fetus it opens inferiorly into the third, between the pillars of the fornix. Its surface has an epi- thelial covering, like that in the lateral ventricles. Dissec. Dissection. — The fornix should be next examined. To lay bare that body the posterior part of the corpus callosum should be detached with care from it, and thrown back- wards ; and the septum lucidum should also be removed from its upper surface. Fornix; The fornix, or arch, is a thin white horizontal stratum and beneath the corpus callosum, which, projecting on each side into the lateral ventricle, forms part of the floor of that cavity. It is triangular in shape, with the base turned backwards, and is connected with the rest of the brain only by its apex and base, where it gives off processes or crura, both before and behind. Poste- At its posterior part or base, the fornix has the following noran arrangement: — At the middle line it joins the corpus cal- losum, whilst on each side it sends off a small riband-like band — taenia hippocampi — along the concave margin of anterior the hippocampus major. At the anterior part, or apex, it is pdrt* arched over the foramen of Monro, opposite the front of the optic thalamus, and ends likewise in two processes or crura, which will be afterwards followed to the corpora albicantia Upper and the optic thalami (p. 225.). To the upper surface, along andfbCor- the middle line, the septum lucidum is attached. Each bor- ders' der is free in the corresponding lateral ventricle, where it rests on the optic thalamus, and along it lies the choroid plexus. Under If the fornix be cut across near its front, the foramen of surface Monro will be opened, and the descending anterior pillars will be seen. When the posterior part is raised, the fornix will be found to be supported on a process of the pia mater, named velum interpositum ; and at its base (on the under aspect) between the two offsets, or the taeniae hippocampi, a marked triangular surface will be seen, which is marked by trans-219 BODIES IN LATERAL VENTRICLE. verse and sometimes by longitudinal lines : the surface which by the is so defined has been called (incorrectly) the lyra. The fornix may also be described as consisting of two Fornix bands, right and left, which are united for a certain distance of two in the central part or body. According to this view, each band, commencing in the optic thalamus, passes over the foramen of Monro, and, after forming the body of the fornix, is continued as a distinct piece to the surface of the hippo- campus. The foramen of Monro is the aperture beneath the ante- This 47 47 A m apertur rior part of the fornix, in which the plexus choroides lies, joins . . lateral Through it the lateral ventricles communicate with oneven- ° . . tricles. another and with the third ventricle. Floor of the lateral Ventricle. — The student may in floor leave untouched, for the present, the membrane on which ventricle the fornix rests, and proceed to examine, on the left side, are ' the different bodies that have been enumerated as constitut- ing the floor of the lateral ventricle. The corpus striatum (superior ganglion of the cerebrum), Jjjjj*^ is the large gray body in the anterior part of the lateral ven- front, tricle. It has received its name from the striated appear- ance that it presents on a section being made through it; and it corresponds, externally, to the island of Reil in the fissure of Sylvius. Dissection,—To see the structure of the corpus striatum, Dissec. the student should make a cut in it from before backwards, struc- until certain white fibres, crossing it obliquely from within outwards, are reached. The knife should then be carried through this layer of white fibres until another mass of gray substance, similar to the first, is arrived at. The striate body now appears to be a conical mass of gray its form, matter of considerable thickness, which is surrounded by the white substance of the hemisphere, except where it projects into the lateral ventricle. Its position is oblique with re- position ; spect to the middle line of the brain, for the anterior part is near the septum of the ventricles, whilst the posterior part is external to the optic thalamus. By means of the incision that has been made into the corpus striatum, white fibres isdivided can be seen to be directed through it in such a way as to parity divide the mass of gray matter into two parts, — one being fibres.220 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. situate in the ventricle (intra-ventricular) above the white fibres, and the other outside the ventricular space, below those fibres, (extra-ventricular). One part a. The intra-ventricular part (nucleus candatus) of the vemri- striate body is pear-shaped, and projects into the floor of the ventricle. The end, directed forwards, is large and rounded ; whilst the opposite end is thin and pointed, and is continued backwards, outside the optic thalamus, to the roof of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. Numerous veins cover this part of the corpus striatum, the other b. The extra-ventricular part (nucleus lenticularis) will that be best seen, afterwards, by sections made from the outer cavity. . . . side or from below. It is oval in form, but does not reach so far back as the other, and is bounded inferiorly by a white capsule ; through it the anterior commissure of the brain passes very obliquely, as a subsequent dissection will show. Taenia The taenia semicircularis is a thin white band of longitu- cXrfs" dinal fibres, that lies between the corpus striatum and the optic thalamus. In front, this band becomes broad, and joins the pillar of the fornix ; and behind, it is continued, along with the pointed end of the corpus striatum, into the white substance of the roof of the descending cornu of the endsin lateral ventricle. Superficial to the anterior part of the comu. taenia is a yellowish semi-transparent layer (lamina cornea), and beneath this some veins pass in their course to the veins of Galen. optic The optic thalamus is only partly laid bare in this stage thalamus ^ ^e dissection, and its examination may be omitted till after the third ventricle has been learnt. Hippo. The hippocampus minor (calcar avis) resembles a cock's inpos- spur as it lies in the posterior cornu of the ventricle. It is comu; pointed at its posterior extremity, and is covered on the free surface by the medullary layer of the corpus callosum. how When it is cut across a gray stratum will be found beneath formed. n it, and the eminence itself seems to be produced by the ex- tension inwards of the sulcus at the posterior part of the inner surface of the hemisphere (p. 213.). Hippo. The hippocampus major is the curved projection in the majoMn floor of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. Con- comu. vex on the surface that looks to the cavity, this body is curved in the same direction as the cornu, and has its con-FLOOR OF LATERAL VENTRICLE. 221 cavity turned inwards. The anterior extremity is the lamest, and presents two or three indentations, which give has a „ n n • • it large end it the appearance of the foot of a carnivorous animal, hence its designation pes hippocampi. Along the inner or concave and margin is the small band or taenia that is prolonged from the border, fornix; and beneath that band is a thin layer of gray matter, with a notched border, which has been named fascia dentata. Dissection. — To examine more fully the hippocampus, J?j^sec" the parts of the corpus callosum and fornix, that remain in the middle line, should be divided, and the posterior lobe of the left hemisphere should be drawn backwards. When the pia mater has been removed from the inner side of the hippo- campus, and this projection cut across, the structure of this body will be seen. The hippocampus is covered on the ventricular surface struc- by a medullary investment, in which the taenia, or the band niPPo- n , r\ • i'-i-i. campus. oi the fornix ends. On the opposite aspect this body is hollowed, and contains gray matter from the surface of the brain. Along the free margin of the hippocampus the gray matter projects in the form of a notched ridge, the fascia dentata. Transverse fissure of the cerebrum. — By drawing the Great separated hemisphere away from the crus cerebri and the verse optic thalamus (the central parts of the cerebrum), and then replacing it, the dissector will comprehend the, position, and the boundaries of the great cleft at the posterior part of the brain. This fissure is placed beneath the fornix, and extends is be- downwards, on each side, from the middle line, to the end of fornix the descending cornu. It is bounded on the one side by the pus Su fornix and the hemisphere, and on the other, by the pe- losum duncle of the cerebrum. Through this great slit the pia and mater passes into the brain, and forms the velum inter- D|sehof positum and the plexus choroides. Where the pia mater pr*m" projects into the lateral ventricle, beneath the edge of the™*^it fornix, it receives a prolongation from the lining structure of the cavity, and thus the interval through which it enters is closed. Parts in the Middle Line. — The student is now to Parts return to the examination of the parts in the centre of the.middle brain, viz. the fold of pia mater and its vessels ; the third222 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. ventricle, and the parts connected with it. At the same time the optic thalamus is to be seen. Velum,r The velum interpositum is the central part of the fold of pia the pia mater that enters the brain by the great transverse fissure. Triangular in shape, the membrane has the same extent as the body of the fornix, and reaches in front to the twrd* foramen of Monro. The upper surface is in contact with tricie • toe f°rnix5 to which it supplies vessels ; and the lower sur- face forms the roof of the third ventricle, and covers the it^iate- pineal body, and a part of each optic thalamus. Along each side is a vascular roll of the membrane (choroid plexus), is the The choroid plexus is the red, somewhat round, and fringed choroid . , ' ta plexus of margin of the fold of pia mater m the interior of the brain. the late- ° . 1 rai.ven- Its lower end is larger than the upper, and each is described tricie. To. • n/r as extending from the foramen of Monro to the extremity of the descending cornu. On its surface the choroid plexus is villous; and the villi are minutely subdivided, and covered by laminated ( ? ciliated) nucleated epithelium, like that on the surface of the ventricle. Vessels Vessels of the velum* — Some small arteries have been velum, already traced to the velum and the choroid plexus from the Arteries; cerebral and cerebellar arteries (p. 188.). These supply veins; branches to the surrounding cerebral substance. The veins of the choroid plexus receive branches from the ventricle, and end in the following, with Along the centre of the velum are two large veins, veins those of & m Galen, of Galen, which begin at the foramen of Monro, by the union of branches from the corpus striatum and the choroid plexus. Lying side by side, these veins are usually united into one, at the posterior part of the velum, which opens into the straight sinus. Dissec- Dissection, — When the velum interpositum has been raised and thrown backwards, the third ventricle will be visible. In reflecting the piece of pia mater, the student must be careful of the pineal body, which would otherwise be detached. On the under-surface of the velum are the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle. other The choroid plexuses of the third ventricle are two fringed plexuses, bodies beneath the velum, which resemble the like parts in the lateral ventricle. Third The third ventricle is an interval between the optic tha- ventricleTHE THIRD VENTRICLE. 223 lami, and reaches to the base of the brain. Its situation is in the middle line of the cerebrum, and below the level of is near the other ventricles, with which it communicates. Its brain, boundaries and communications are given below :— The roof is formed by the velum interpositum and the Roof, fornix. The floor is very oblique from behind forwards, so Floor, that the depth of the cavity is greater in front than behind : corresponding to the floor are the parts at the base of the brain, which lie between the crura cerebri and the anterior longitudinal fissure, viz. locus perforatus, corpora albicaritia, tuber cinereum, commissure of the optic nerves, and lamina cinerea. On the sides of the cavity the optic thalami are Parts situate. In front of the space are the descending pillars of sides, the fornix, with part of the anterior commissure of the cere- in front, brum in the 'interval between them. Behind, are the and be- posterior commissure and the pineal body. Crossing the centre of the space, from one optic thalamus to another, is a band of gray matter — the soft commissure. This space communicates with the other ventricles of the opening brain in the following way : — In front, it joins each lateral other ventricle through the foramen of Monro, and opens into the cies. lifth ventricle in the fetus. Behind, is an opening into the fourth ventricle, beneath the posterior commissure, which is named aqueduct of Sylvius. At the lower part, in front, there is a depression opposite the infundibulum (iter ad in- fundibulum). The lining of the ventricle is continued into the neighbouring cavities through the different apertures of communication, and closes the iter ad infundibulum. Gray matter of the ventricle. — A stratum of gray matter Gray is seen to cover most of the surface of the ventricle. At the the ven- lower part of each optic thalamus, it envelops the crus of the fornix, and ascends to the septum lucidum ; and in the floor of the cavity it also exists in abundance, entering into the corpora albicantia, and uniting the structures that form the floor of the third ventricle. In the middle of the space it reaches from side to side, and forms most of the soft com- missure. The anterior commissure of the cerebrum is a round Anterior bundle of white fibres, which passes through each corpus su™Tls~ striatum, and connects the opposite hemispheres. To see form and extent.DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 224 it in one half of its extent, the student should make the following dissection: — Toseeit, Dissection,—On the side on which the corpus striatum has Corpus been cut into, the commissure is to be followed into the striatum. interior of that body, by scraping away the gray matter (intra ventricular) with the handle of the scalpel. The commissure will be then seen to perforate the white fibres of the corpus striatum, and to pass through the other mass of gray matter (extra-ventricular) of the same body. Position; Free only in the middle line, where it lies before the pillars of the fornix, the anterior commissure perforates the and corpus striatum, and passes in succession through the intra- ventricular gray mass, the white fibres, and the extra-ventri- to roof cular grey matter. Lastly, the commissure pierces the white ferior stratum bounding externally the corpus striatum, and ends comu. jn roof 0f the inferior cornu of the lateral ventricle. Poste- The posterior commissure of the cerebrum is smaller than missure. the anterior, and is placed above the opening into the fourth ventricle. Laterally it enters the substance of the optic thalamus. Thaia- The thalamus opticus (inferior ganglion of the cerebrum) opticus, will be best seen on that side on which the inferior cornu of Form the lateral ventricle has been opened. It is a square-shaped sition? body, which forms part of the lateral and third ventricles, and is unattached where it enters into those cavities, upper The upper surface projects in the floor of the lateral ventricle, and is marked, in front, by a prominence (anterior Under tubercle) near the tsenia semicircularis. The under surface forms part of the roof of the inferior cornu of the lateral ventricle, and into it the crus cerebri is inserted. By the inner inner side this body enters into the third ventricle ; and along its upper part, on this aspect, lies the peduncle of the outer pineal body. On the outer side are the corpus striatum, and anterior, the substance of the hemisphere. The anterior part looks to ter1oPr°s" the foramen of Monro. And the posterior part, which is parts* free in the inferior cornu of the lateral ventricle, presents inferiorly two small roundish tubercles, internal and external geniculate bodies, with which the optic nerve is connected. Origin The origin of the optic nerve from the thalamus, and from nerve.10 the geniculate and quadrigeminal bodies, can now be well seen. At the back of the crus cerebri the optic tract225 CENTRAL BODIES OF THE CEREBRUM. receives fibres from the optic thalamus, which it touches, and then divides into two terminal bands: — one of these is connected with the gray matter in the external geniculate body, and is continued onwards to one of the corpora quadri- gemina (nates); the other is similarly connected with the internal geniculate body, and then continued to another of the quadrigeminal bodies (testis). Dissection. — The origin of the fornix in the optic tha- Dissec- & _ tion. lamus is next to be followed out. But the anterior com- missure and the anterior part of the corpus callosum should be first cut along the middle line, so that the left hemi- sphere can be separated from the other; on this the crus of the fornix is to be traced downwards to the corpus albicans, and then upwards into the optic thalamus. Anterior pillar of the fornix. — The fornix begins in the °jjg™of thalamus opticus, near the tubercle on the upper surface, j^optic From this origin it descends in a curved direction to the mus; corpus albicans, where it makes a turn like half of the figure 8, and furnishes a white envelope to the gray matter how of that body. The crus then ascends, with a bend forwards, corpus . . albicans. through the gray substance on the side of the optic thalamus, and is here joined by the fibres of the taenia semicircularis Joined and the peduncle of the pineal gland. Lastly, the crus is fibres, applied to the like part of the opposite side to form the body of the fornix. The pineal body and the corpora quadrigemina, which are placed behind the third ventricle, are to be next seen. Dissection. — All the pia mater should be carefully re- Dissec- moved from the surface of the quadrigeminal bodies, espe- cially on the left side, on which they are to be examined. The posterior lobe of the hemisphere of the same side may be cut off. The pineal gland (conarium) is a small conical body, Pineal which is situate above the posterior commissure, and be- position, tween the anterior pair of the corpora quadrigemina. In shape, shape like the cone of a fir, it is less than a quarter of an inch in length, and has the base or wider part turned for- wards. It is connected to the optic thalami by two white bands,—peduncles of the pineal body: these begin at the attach, base of the pineal gland, and extending forwards, one onthaia.to each side, along the inner part of the optic thalami, end by mus' QDISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 226 joining the crura of the fornix. The base of the gland is further connected by transverse white fibres with the pos- terior commissure. tmT~ body is of a red colour and vascular, and encloses a cavity. It contains in its substance large pale nucleated cells, with a few nerve fibres, and much calcareous material. quadri-a corPora quadrigemina are four small bodies, which gemina. are arranged in pairs, right and left, and are separated by a on each me^an groove. Each pair is situate on the cerebral aspect side. 0f the peduncle of the cerebrum of the same side. Anterior The anterior eminence (nates) is somewhat larger than one v J ° jSnses) ^e Posteri°r> from which it is separated by a slight depres- thaia- sion ; it is oblong from before backwards, and sends forwards THUS. \ 7 . . a white band to join the optic thalamus and the optic nerve. Poste- The posterior eminence (testis) is rounder in form and rior one . joins whiter in colour than the preceding: it has also a lateral mus. white band, which is directed beneath the corpus genicu- latum internum, and blends with the optic tract and the thalamus opticus, struc- These bodies are small masses of gray substance enveloped their by white, and are placed on the band of the fillet that forms the roof of the aqueduct of Sylvius. They send processes (brachia) to the optic thalamus, which are accessory parts to the peduncular fibres of the cerebrum. Finet of Fillet of the olivary body—If the upper margin of the body cerebellum be pulled aside, a white band, about a quarter of an inch in width, will be seen to issue from the transverse fibres of the pons, and to be directed upwards to the corpora passes quadrigemina. This is the upper or commissural piece of corpora the fillet (p. 205.), which enters the corpora quadrigemina, gemina. and joins beneath them over the Sylvian aqueduct, with the similar part of the opposite side. Three Structure of the Cerebrum.—In each cerebral hemi- sets of fibres in sphere three principal sets of constituent fibres are recog- brum. nised, viz. diverging, and both transverse, and longitudinal: the former are in part continuous with those of the spinal cord, and are supposed to form parts of the cerebrum, while the two latter join distant bodies, and are considered to be only connecting or commissural in their office. Fibres of A. Peduncular or diverging fibres. — In the crus cerebri crus */«/«/227 FIBRES OF THE CEREBRUM. or the root of the cerebral hemisphere, two bundles of longi- cerebri tudinal fibres are collected; these are separated, in part, by hem? gray matter, and are derived mediately from the spinalsphere* cord (p. 208.). From this source the hemisphere may be said to spring. Dissection. — A complete systematic view of the diverging jPj*sec" fibres cannot be given now, because the dissection necessary for that purpose would destroy parts that have not yet been seen. At this stage it is purposed to show chiefly the pas- sage of those fibres from the crus through the two cerebral ganglia. To trace the diverging fibres onwards, beyond the crus in the 00 7 J corpus cerebri, through the corpus striatum, the nucleus caudatus striatum of that body should be scraped away from above them; and this dissection should be made on the side on which the striate body and the optic thalamus remain uncut. In this proceeding the pecten of Reil comes into view, viz. gray matter passing between the white fibres, and giving the appearance of the teeth of a comb. On taking away completely the prolonged part of the nu- cleus, others of the same set of fibres will be seen issuing from the outer side of the optic thalamus, and then radiating to the posterior and inferior lobes. After tracing those and op- fibres, a part of the upper surface of the optic thalamus, that mus. at the posterior end, may be taken away to denude an acces- sory bundle to the peduncular fibres, that comes beneath the corpora quadrigemina from the superior peduncle of the cerebellum. Their arrangement — The diverging fibres radiate from Fibres the peduncle of the cerebrum to the surface of the hemi- dunde sphere, passing in their course through the two cerebral ganglia (optic thalamus and corpus striatum), and they form a conically-shaped mass, whose apex is below and base above. The fibres that form the free or fasciculated part of the in corpus striatum peduncle pass mostly through the middle of the striate body ; u°p- whilst those on the opposite aspect of the peduncle, which lamus: form its tegmentum, are transmitted chiefly through the under part of the optic thalamus, though some pass through both corpus striatum and optic thalamus. In those two ganglionic bodies the fibres are greatly increased in number;DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 228 their ac- and in the optic thalamus, they receive accessory bundles bandsT from the superior peduncle of the cerebellum (p. 233.), from the fillet of the olivary body, from one pair of the corpora Tnthe quadrigemina, and from the corpora geniculata. On escaping sphere from tne striate body and the thalamus, the fibres radiate tend to" into tne anterior, middle, and posterior parts of the cerebral hemisphere, forming the corona radiata. In the hemisphere the fibres are continued to the convolutions, but before reaching the circumference of the brain they decussate with the converging fibres of the corpus callosum. Their expan- sion in the hemisphere resembles a fan bent down in front and behind, forming thus a layer which is concave on the under side. Fibres Their extent.—It must not be supposed that all the fibres convolu tions, reaching of the peduncle reach the surface of the brain, nor that all through- t|lose at ^e cjrcumference are originally derived from the peduncle ; for some of the fibres of the crus cerebri end in the corpus striatum and the optic thalamus, especially the former; and others extend only from those ganglionic bodies to the surface of the hemisphere. Thus, in addition to the fibres that extend throughout, some connect the peduncle of the cerebrum with the ganglia, and others connect the ganglia with the convolutions on the exterior, source Their source. — The fibres thus entering inferiorly the cord1. cerebrum through its peduncle, and continued thence to the periphery of the hemisphere, are derived from all three divisions of the medulla oblongata, viz. anterior pyramid, lateral column, and restiform body, and therefore directly from all the divisions of the spinal cord (p. 200.). The decussations between the fibres of opposite sides have been before referred to (pp. 201. 208.). com- B. The transverse commissural fibres connect the hemi- missural _. trans- spheres of the cerebrum across the middle line. These verse , . , fibres, fibres give rise to the great commissure^ or the corpus cal- losum (p. 214.), and to the anterior and posterior com- missures (p. 223.). All these bodies have been already examined. Com- C. Longitudinal fibres. — Other connecting fibres pass lUngitt? from before backwards, uniting together parts of the same fibres, hemisphere, and having mostly a circular arrangement. Are The fibres of this system are collected chiefly in the follow- round J J229 THE CEREBELLUM. Q 3 ing different bands, viz. the fornix, the taenia semicircularis, in fornix and the peduncles of the pineal body. Other longitudinal acces- fibres may also be enumerated on the upper and under sur- parts; faces of the corpus callosum, along the middle line, together and°n' with the band of the convolution of the corpus callosum : all corpus these last are connected with the anterior perforated spot of cs^' the base of the brain. Structure of the optic thalamus. — On making sections of Optic the optic thalamus on the side on which it is entire (the left), mus - differs this body will be found to consist of lavers of gray and above t i -, . -, n i and white substance, at the upper and inner parts; and ot the below. medullary fibres (tegmentum) of the peduncle of the cere- brum, at the lower and outer parts. Corpus striatum. — By slicing through the corona radiata section r m J & ° of corpus on the right side, so as to expose the extra-ventricular part g™tum (nucleus lenticularis) of the corpus striatum, the extent and outside, form of that mass, and the situation of the anterior commis- sure, will be apparent. Crus cerebri.—A section may be made through the right Section] J ° ° of crus peduncle of the cerebrum, to see the disposition and the cerebri, thickness of the two layers of its longitudinal fibres, and the situation of the locus niger between them. Dissection. — The cerebellum is to be detached from the Proceed- remains of the cerebrum, by carrying the knife through prepare the optic thalamus, so that the cerebellum with the corpora beiium. quadrigemina, the crura cerebri, the pons, and the medulla oblongata, may remain connected together. When the cerebellum, united with the other parts men- Parts to be sepa- tioned above, has been detached from the cerebrum, all the rated fr°m one pia mater is to be carefully removed from the fissure on its another, under surface, and the different bodies in that fissure are to be separated from one another. Lastly the handle of the scalpel should be passed along a sulcus, at the circumference of the cerebellum, between the upper and under surfaces. Section V. THE CEREBELLUM. The cerebellum, little brain, is flattened from above down- Form wards, so as to be widest from side to side, and measures about four inches in this last direction. This part of the positionDivi. ' the skull, beneath the tentorium cerebelli. Like the cere- 230 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. sions. of cere, encephalon is situate in the posterior fossae of the base of brum, it is incompletely divided into two hemispheres,—the division being marked by a wide groove along the under surface, and by a notch, at the posterior part, which receives the falx cerebelli. No Upper Surface. — On the upper aspect the cerebellum groove . on the is raised in the centre, but is sloped towards the circum- upper 1 surface; ference. There is not any median sulcus on this aspect, halves and the halves are united by a central constricted part or joined by . , . . * median isthmus, the superior vermiform process. Separating this surface from the under one, at the circumference, is the horizontal fissure, which is wide in front, and extends back- wards from the pons to the middle line of the cerebellum. Laminae The surface of the cerebellum is marked by plates or and J r their laminae, instead of convolutions, which are notched on the ment. sides, and form segments of circles, with their convexity directed backwards, and with a concentric stratiform arrange- ment. On the upper aspect the laminae pass from the one hemisphere to the other, with only a slight bending forwards of the most anterior in the superior vermiform process; but on the under aspect they join the sides of the different bodies, sulci are or commissures, in the median fissure. Between the laminae or deep, are sulci or fissures, which are lined by the pia mater, and reach to different depths: the shallower of these separate the laminae; but the deeper limit the lobes, and reach down- wards to the white substance of the interior. Here and there the sulci are interrupted by cross laminae. a fissure The under surface is convex, being received into the fcent fossae of the skull, and is divided into hemispheres by a below, _ r J median hollow (vallecula), which is The central sulcus, or the vallecula, receives the medulla called 7 valley, oblongata, and is wider at the middle than at either the and con- anterior or the posterior part. In the bottom of the hollow tains ver- . 1 * miform is a mass, named inferior vermiform process, which corre- process. 1 sponds to the central part connecting the halves of the cerebellum on the upper surface: the two together consti- tute the general commissure of the halves of the cerebellum, tuentsof Constituents of vermiform process.—Entering into the vermi- constitution of the inferior vermiform process are the follow-231 LOBES OF THE CEREBELLUM. q 4 ing eminences, which may be easily separated from one form another with the handle of the scalpel: — Most anteriorly is process' a narrow body, the uvula, which is named from its resem- Uvula, blance to the same part in the throat; it is longer from, before backwards than from side to side, and is divided into laminae. Its anterior projection into the fourth ventricle is nodule, named nodule, or laminated tubercle; and on its side is a ridge of gray matter, which is notched on the surface (fur- furrowed roived band), and unites it with the almond-like lobe of the hemisphere. Connected to the nodule is a thin white layer on each side, the medullary velum ; but this and the fur- velum, rowed band will be seen in a subsequent dissection (p. 232.). Behind the uvula is a tongue-shaped body, named pyramid, pyramid, which is elongated from side to side, and is marked by transverse lamina?. Still farther back are certain transverse and corn- pieces extending between the posterior lobes of the hemi- Turls. spheres, of which they were considered by Keil to be the commissures. Lobes of the Hemisphere.—Each hemisphere is sub- seven A lobes in divided into lobes, both on the upper and the under aspect; each_ and issuing from its anterior part is a large stalk-like process, sphere, which is subdivided into three pieces, and connects the cere- bellum with other parts, viz. an upper peduncle to the cere- and brum, a middle one to the pons, and an inferior one to the Peedgun~ medulla oblongata. On the upper surface there are two lobes, anterior and Two . lobes on posterior, which are separated by a sulcus, but the interval upper between them is not well marked. The anterior or square lobe extends back to a level with the posterior edge of the vermiform process ; and the posterior reaches thence to the great horizontal fissure at the circumference. On the under surface of the cerebellum, there are three three on under lobes that are separated, as above, by sulci amongst the surface, laminae, but these are not more distinct than on the upper surface: — Beginning behind, the student will meet first the posterior pos- . . terior, lobe, which joins the commissural laminae behind the pyramid in the vallecula. Next in order is the slender lobe, which IS slender, connected with the posterior part of the pyramid, as well as with the other transverse laminae behind that body. And232 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. and bu lastly, attached to the side of the pyramid, is the biventral ventral. • *J lobe. other ^W0 otner l°Des appear between the biventral lobe and vaUey"1 ^e me^u^a oblongata: — One of these is the amygdaloid Amygda- lobe, which projects into the vallecula opposite the uvula, l01d and touches the medulla oblongata. The other is a small pyramidal slip,, that is directed outwards over (the under and floe- surface being uppermost) the crus cerebelli, and is named flocculus, or subpeduncular lobe. Dissec Dissection. — To see the flocculus and the posterior me- tion. x dullary velum, the biventral and slender lobes of the under surface are to be sliced off, on the left side, so that the amyg- daloid lobe may be everted. The flocculus is then bared, and passing from it to the tip of the uvula is the thin white layer of the posterior velum; beneath the last a bit of paper may be inserted. The furrowed band on the side of the uvula can now be fully seen. position Flocculus and medullar?/ velum. — The position of the flocculus to the crus cerebelli, and in front of the biventral structure lobe, has been before mentioned. This body resembles the of floe- ' J cuius, other lobes in structure, and may be considered a rudimen- tary lobe, for it is divided on the surface into lamina?, and contains a white medullary centre, from which offsets are furnished to those divisions. Poste- Passing from the flocculus to the tip of the inferior vermi- rior me- / duiiary form process (nodule) is a thin white layer, the medullary velum (inferior or posterior), which serves as a commissure Form to the flocculi. On each side this band is semilunar in form, and at- . . . tach- its anterior edge is free, but its posterior border is attached ments- . i r in front of the transverse furrowed band. In front of the nodule the pieces of opposite sides are united, and form the membranous velum. cere- Interior of the Cerebellum. — In the cerebellum there belium is . solid in. is not any cavity or ventricle enclosed, as in the cerebrum. ternally. . J In the interior there is a large white centre, corresponding to that of the cerebrum, which furnishes offsets to the laminae, and to other parts' of the encephalon. The space of the fourth ventricle is between the cerebellum and the medulla oblongata. ttoa of" Dissection—For the purpose of seeing the structure of the233 INTERIOR OF THE CEREBELLUM. laminae, an incision may be made across them on the upper laminae, surface of the left hemisphere. And the medullary centre, with its contained corpus den- of centre, tatum, may be seen on the right side by removing all the laminae from the upper surface. This object may be accom- plished by placing the scalpel in the horizontal fissure, at the circumference, and then carrying it inwards as far as the upper vermiform process, so as to detach the cortical stratum. If the corpus dentatum does not at first appear, thin slices j^d cor- may be made till it is reached. tatum. Structure of the lamince*—Each lamina consists of aAia- . i . mina has white internal, and a gray external substance. The white white in- part is derived from the central medullary mass, and dividing, like the branching of a tree, ends in small lateral offsets, that enter the subdivisions of the laminae. Besides the white stalk of the lamina, which is derived coiia. 7 • teral from the central mass, there are other white fibres that pass white 7 A fibres ; from one lamina to another. The stratum of gray matter, that envelops the white sub- and gray i-i • f i outside. stance, resembles somewhat the cortical covering ot the con- volutions of the cerebrum. It is constructed of two strata, inner and outer, that can be distinguished by the difference in their colour. The superficial stratum is gray, and about equal to the other in thickness ; but the deeper one is of a rust-colour, and is generally thickest in the hollows between the laminae. Medullary Centre.—A large white mass occupies the white1 centre of each cerebellar hemisphere, and contains in its sub- cere- substance a dentate body. From its surface offsets are fur- gives nished to the different laminae; and from the anterior part; proceed three large processes or peduncles—superior, middle, and inferior. a. The superior peduncle (processus ad cerebrum) is superior directed forwards towards the testis. It is rather flat in c?edun" shape, and forms part of the roof of the fourth ventricle: between the peduncles of opposite sides the valve of Vieus- sens is situate. Continuous behind.with the inferior vermi- is above form process, its fibres receive an offset from the interior of vemri- the corpus dentatum, and then pass beneath the band of the fillet, and beneath the pair of the corpora quadrigemina of234 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. the same side, to enter the crus cerebri and the optic tha- lamus. its fibres Beneath the corpora quadrigemina the internal fibres of sate. the crus are directed inwards, through those continued from the fasciculus teres, and cross the corresponding fibres of the other side, forming thus a decussation like that of the pyra- mids* (p. 201.). In this way the fibres of each peduncle end partly in the same, and partly in the opposite hemisphere of the cerebrum. Has Between the superior peduncles is the thin, translucent, vieus-f white layer, the valve of Vieussens (velum medullare an- between terius), which forms part of the roof of the fourth ventricle, the two. jt .g pointed anteriorly, but widens behind, where it is connected with the under part of the vermiform process. Near the corpora quadrigemina the fourth nerve is attached to the upper aspect of the valve, the nerves of opposite sides being united ; and near the lower part, the upper surface is marked by some gray transverse ridges. Middle b. The middle peduncle (processus ad pontem) is com- cie monly named crus cerebelli, and is the largest of the three peduncular processes. Its fibres begin in the lateral part of the cerebellum, and are directed forwards to the pons, of which they form the transverse fibres, and in which they unite with the fibres of the peduncle of the opposite side, is the This peduncle is supposed to perform, for the cerebellum, sure of the same office as the corpus callosum for the cerebrum, viz. cerebel- lum. to serve as a commissural or connecting piece. Inferior c. The inferior peduncle (processus ad medullam) passes cTe,un" downwards to the medulla oblongata, and forms part of the restiform body. Its fibres are connected chiefly with the laminae of the upper surface of the cerebellum. It will be better seen when the fourth ventricle has been opened. Fibres Course of the fibres. — The fibres issuing in the peduncles pedun-le from the cerebellar hemisphere connect it with its fellow, ces' with the cerebrum, and with the spinal cord of the same side. The description already given of the middle peduncle, both here and with the pons, will suffice for its fibres. * This intercommunication was known to Reil, and was named " ansa," by him, but the decussation has been verified more recently by Stilling, Ueber den Ban des Hirnknotens: 1846.INTERIOR OF THE CEREBELLUM. 235 The fibres of the upper peduncle are continued into the of upper, crus cerebri, and thus form part of the diverging cerebral set of fibres; but before they reach their final destination there is a partial decussation of the fibres, so that those of the right half of the cerebellum are continued to the left half of the cerebrum, and vice versa. The fibres of the lower peduncle enter the cord, and con- and lower nect the cerebellum with all three portions of the half of the medulla oblongata of the same side; and so, indirectly, with the corresponding half of the cord, except the small posterior median column: for fibres connect it with the anterior pyramid, with the lateral tract or column, and with the resti- form body. The dentate body (corpus dentatum) is contained in the £orPus white fibres of the cerebellum, and resembles in structure tum. that in the corpus olivare of the medulla oblongata. This situa- body measures three fourths of an inch from before back- wards, and is situate near the inner part of the white centre. It consists of a thin, wavy, grayish-yellow stratum, which is struc- so arranged as to form a small capsule; this bag is open at the anterior part, and encloses a nucleus of whitish matter. Through its anterior aperture issues a band of fibres, from the nucleus, to join the superior peduncle. Dissection.—One other section must be made to show the Dissec- fourth ventricle and the structure of the vermiform process. Let the knife be carried vertically through the centre of the upper vermiform process (the cerebellum still resting on its under surface), and then, on separating the halves of the cerebellum, the structure of the central part, as well as the boundaries of the fourth ventricle, may be observed. Structure of the vermiform 'process. — The vermiform pro- vemn- cesses (upper and lower) of the cerebellum are united in one process central part; and this connects together the hemispheres, other Internally, the structure of this connecting piece is the same partS" as in the rest of the cerebellum, viz. a central white stalk, with lateral branches for the laminas. Here the branching appearance of a tree (arbor vitas) is best seen, in consequence of the stalks being longer, and the laminas more divided. The fourth ventricle (fossa rhomboidalis) is a space Fourth between the cerebellum and the posterior aspect of the cie.236 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN". medulla oblongata and pons. It has the form of a lozenge, Index W^ ^e P°*nts placed upwards and downwards. The upper tent, angle reaches as high as the upper border of the pons ; and the lower, to a level with the inferior part of the olivary breadth, body. Its greatest breadth is at the spot where the crus cerebelli is connected with the medulla and pons; and a transverse line in this situation would divide the hollow calamus, into two triangular portions. The lower of those two por- tions has been named the calamus scriptorius; from its resemblance to a writing pen. Lateral The lateral boundary is more marked at the upper than ry. " at the lower part. For about half way down, the cavity is limited on each side by the superior peduncle of the cere- bellum, which projects over it, forming part as well of the roof; and along each side of the lower half lies the eminence of the restiform body. Roof. The roof of the space is somewhat arched, and is formed above by the valve of Yieussens, and the under part of the vermiform process; and, towards the lower part, by the thin nervous stratum of the ligula (p. 199.), and by the reflection of the pia mater from the spinal cord to the surface of the vermiform process. Floor. The floor of the ventricle corresponds to the posterior surfaces of the medulla oblongata and pons, and is grayish Parts in in colour. Along its centre is a median groove, that ends it are, ° fe ' median below, at the point of the calamus and within the swollen fissure, A part of the posterior pyramid, in a minute hole, — the remains fascicu. of the canal of the cord. On each side of the groove is a us teres, Spm(jje_snape(j elevation, the fasciculus s. eminentia teres. This eminence reaches the whole length of the floor, and is pointed and little marked inferiorly, where it is covered by gray substance; but it becomes whiter and more pro- minent superiorly, and its widest point is opposite the attach- ment of the crus cerebelli. It is formed by the fibres derived from the lateral tract and the restiform body, which ascend to the cerebrum. The outer border of the eminence is limited externally by a slight groove, which (in some bodies well foveaB) marked) will point out the position of two.fossae (fovea an- poste- terior et posterior). The posterior fossa is near the begin- ning of the groove, and the anterior is opposite the crus cerebelli. At the top of the anterior fossa is a collection of nor.237 FOURTH VENTICLE. very dark "gray substance" which has a bluish appearance, as it is seen through the thin stratum covering it, and is named locus cceruleus* ; and a bluish streak (tamia violacea) locus v 7 caeru- is continued upwards, at the outer edge of the eminentia leus» teres, to the opening in the top of the fourth ventricle. Crossing the floor on each side, opposite the lower border of the pons, are some white streaks, that vary much in their white arrangement, and sometimes are not to be recognised. They stna?' issue from the central median fissure, and enter the crus cerebelli, and the auditory nerve (p. 202.); but one may oftentimes be seen to enter the locus casruleus. Besides the objects above mentioned, there are other Emi- eminences in the floor of the ventricle, that have been re- "erveS °f ferred to by Stilling as indicating the position of the nuclei nuclel* of origin of certain nerves. In the lower half of the ven- In lower tricle—the part called calamus scriptorius—are three some- half; what triangular eminences on each side for the eighth and ninth nerves: — One of these, viz. that for the ninth nerve, of is close to the middle line, and corresponds to the lowerninth' pointed part of the fascic. teres. The other two are outside that fasciculus, and are placed in a line one above another, but separated by a well-marked groove ; the lower of the two is the nucleus of the vagus, and the upper, that of the of vagus, glossopharyngeal. Running into the vagus nucleus, below, giosso- is that of the small portion of the spinal accessory nerve, geai?n" which begins at the point of the fourth ventricle, close to sPinal ° *■ 7 acces- the middle line, and extends upwards and outwards. In scy- the upper half of the space some nerves take their origin, in upper but there is only one projection pointing out the locality. This is the common nucleus of the sixth and the facial °.f tl)e , sixth and nerve: it is a half globular elevation on the outer part offacial- the eminentia teres, about a line above the white cross striae on the floor, and close to the lower end of the fovea anterior. The fourth ventricle communicates at the upper part with Open- the third ventricle through the Sylvian aqueduct; and with the ven- the sub-arachnoid space of the cord and brain, through an aperture in the pia mater that intervenes between the * The term locus caeruleus seems to be applied to the spot, for the dark vesicular matter in it has been named substantia ferruginea.DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 238 medulla and the cerebellum: laterally, the ventricular space is extended between the cerebellum and the side of the and its medulla oblongata. The lining of the other ventricles is prolonged into this by the aperture of communication with the third. choroid In this ventricle is a vascular fold, or a choroid plexus, on theXca-°f each side, similar to the body of the same name in the other Vlty' ventricles. It is attached to the inner surface of the mem- brane (pia mater), that closes the ventricle between the medulla and the cerebellum, and it extends upwards on the side. Its vessels are supplied by the inferior cerebellar artery. Gray Gray matter of fourth ventricle. — The gray matter in matter two ' connection with the floor of the fourth ventricle exists in the kinds. „ „ p lorm ot masses, and as a suriace-covenng. Special The special collections, at least those that are to be de- deposits, jecj.e(j on tjie surface? have been already referred to, and those that are deeper placed are described with the origin of surface the nerves from them. The surface-covering forms a tolerT ably thick stratum, that is continuous below with the central gray matter of the cord, and extends upwards to the aque- duct of Sylvius.CHIEF ARTERIES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 239 TABLE OF THE CHIEF ARTERIES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 1. Brachio- cephalic. . Common carotid - 1. External carotid - 2. Internal carotid "\. Vertebral 2. subcla- vian 2. internal mammary 3. thyroid axis 1. Superior thyroid 2. lingual - 4. occipital 5. posterior auricular 6. ascending pharyngeal • 7. temporal 8. internal maxillary rl. Arteriae receptaculi 2. ophthalmic 3. anterior cerebral 4. anterior communicating 5. middle cerebral 6. posterior communicating 7. choroid •Anterior spinal posterior spinal inferior cerebellar posterior meningeal transverse basilar anterior inferior cerebellar superior cerebellar ^posterior cerebral. Hyoid branch laryngeal thyroid. Hyoid branch dorsal lingual sublingual ranine. ["Inferior palatine branch ' tonsillitic glandular submental ^ inferior labial coronary - f inferior 3 I superior lateral nasal angular. Meningeal branch posterior cervical. ( Stylo-mastoid branch - auricular mastoid. Pharyngeal branches meningeal. Auricular parotid articular transverse facial middle temporal anterior temporal posterior temporal. "Inferior dental middle meningeal muscular posterior dental <j infra-orbital ' spheno-pala ine descending palatine vidian ..pterygopalatine. Lachrymal supra-orbital central of the retina ciliary muscular ethmoidal palpebral . frontal .nasal. /'Inferior thyroid - 1 supra-scapular ^transverse cervical 4* cervical } suPerior intercostal. Ascending cervical. C Supra-spinal I infra-spinal. C Superficial cervical I posterior scapular. 2. left common carotid. ^3. left subclavian.240 CHIEF VEIN'S OF THE HEAD AND NECK. TABLE OF THE CHIEF VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. Brachioce- phalic is formed by the union of Internal ju- gular ^ subclavian - ■1. Lateral sinus 2. ascending pharyn- geal 3. lingual - Superior longitudinal sinus inferior longitudinal sinus straight sinus occipital sinuses ophthalmic vein superior petrosal ^inferior petrosal. < Meningeal branches (^pharyngeal. ( Superficial dorsal l lingual ^•ranine. Angular inferior palpebral dorsal and lateral nasal veins alveolar or maxillary —y [EES? buccal masseteric labial submental inferior palatine tonsillitic ^glandular. . .L . ("Mastoid vein 5. occipital - (cervical. 6. superior thyroid - 7. middle thy- roid. f Thyroid (laryngeal. C Spinal i v t v. l 1 deep cervical i. vertebral (^ascending cervical. I. Internal maxillary 2. external jugular 3. anterior ju- gular. 4. superior in- tercostal of the right side. 2. temporal ( Supra-orbital J frontal \ palpebral (nasal. f Alveolar branches | infra-orbital • <{ descending palatine | naso-palatine Lvidian. 3. posterior auricular - 4. branch of the inter- nal jugular 5. supra-scapular 6. transverse cervical - fMiddle meningeal I inferior dental -<! deep temporal I pterygoid [.masseteric. f Anterior | posterior 1 middle temporal ' J parotid I anterior auricular Ltransverse facial. C Auricular I stylo-mastoid. C Supra-spinal \ infra-spinal. S Superficial cervical {.posterior scapular.241 CRANIAL NERVES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. TABLE OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. 1. First nerve - Filaments to nose. 2. Second nerve To retina of the eye. 3. Third nerve - To muscles of orbit. 4. Fourth nerve To oblique muscle. rOphthalmic - 5. Fifth or tri- facial nerve ^Meningeal, lachrymal *\ frontal nasal _ C Lachrymal " £ palpebral. C Supra-orbital "1 supra-trochlear. ( To lent, ganglion J ciliary nerves " j infra-trochlear (nasal. (To nasal nerve ophthalmic or lenti-lConnectingbranches < to the third nerve cular ganglion -1 (to sympathetic. 6au0nuu ^ Ciliary nerves Superior maxillary - Meckel's ganglion Orbital branch _ C Malar "i temporal. to Meckel's ganglion posterior dental anterior dental infra orbital. f Internal branches -{^-palatine. - To the orbit. ascending descending - posterior SAnterior palatine posterior external. _ 5" Vidian " t pharyngeal. Inferior maxillary f deep temporal Small or muscular J masseteric division - - j buccal ( pterygoid. large or inferior di- ^ vision (Articular, and to meatus parotid auricular temporal. -To sub-maxil- lary and sub- lingual gan- glia to hypoglossal -to the tongue. (Mylo-hyoid ] labial (.incisor. gustatory inferior dental Otic ganglion Submaxillary - glion ( To Jacobson's nerve ('Connectingbranches <J to the fifth and sym- tBranches for mus- cles. ( pathetic. if To the gustatory, Connectingbranches < chorda tympani, ( and sympathetic, branches to the gland and the mucous membrane. RCRANIAL NERVES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 242 TABLE OF THE CRANIAL NERVES—Continued. 6. Sixth nerve , To external rectus. 'Portio dura ■ 7. Seventh nerve jmrtio mollis Glossopharyngeal i Eighth nerve pneumo-gastric .spinal accessory Connecting branches Branches for ■ distribution ■ ''To join auditory to Meckel's ganglion tympanic and sym- pathetic nerves the chorda tympani. Posterior auricular digastric branch stylo-hyoid branch temporo-facial cervico-facial {Temporal malar infra-orbital. 5Buccal supra-maxillary infra-maxillary. To the portio dura nerve to cochlea. nerve to vestibule - [ To the common sac I to the saccule | to the semi-circular [ canals. ^Connecting branches Branches for distribution Connecting branches ("To vagus j to sympathetic " / Jacobson's nerve rTo carotid artery to the pharynx _.J tonsillitic branches " | muscular (^lingual. To glossopharyn- geal sympathetic and au- ricular nerves to the hypoglossal /"Pharyngeal nerve C Joins otic ganglion, " c supplies tympanum. Branches for. L distribution - superior laryngeal - cardiac nerves inferior laryngeal ^External laryngeal (to the ascending j mucous descending \ mem- (brane to join the inferior laryngeal. Cardiac oesophageal, tracheal o constrictor and muscles of larynx to join superior la- ryngeal. /^Connecting C To pneumo-gastric \ branches - \to the cervical plexus 1 Branches for C To sterno-mastoideus V distribution - \ and trapezius.; i. Ninth or hy- poglossal nerve ^Connecting branches {To the pneumo-gas- tric nerve to the sympathetic to loop of atlas to gustatory nerve. TDescendens noni Branches for dislri-J thyro-hyoid nerve ^ buiion - O to the lingual mus- V. cles and tongue.243 SPINAL AND SYMPATHETIC NERVES. r 2 TABLE OF THE SPINAL AND SYMPATHETIC NERVES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. Spinal Nerves, f The first four form the Cervical Plexus, which gives off - The cervi cal spinal < nerves di- vide into Anterior branches • -c.„v^..c„;..i (Small occipital nerve s ( superficial cervical. superficial J f^^ular descending {S^SSSS. /'To the pneumo-gastric to the hypoglossal deep inter- J to the sympathetic nai - - ] to rectus major muscle to diaphragm Mierves to descendens noni. f To join the spinal accessory deep exter- 1 to the sterno-mastoideus • nal - - j to the trapezius (to the levator anguli scapulae. The last four and first dorsal form the Bra- chial Plexus, which"1 , gives off Branches above the clavicle - branches ^ below "The rhomboid nerve to the phrenic nerve supra-scapular nerve subclavian branch posterior thoracic or respira- tory to the scaleni muscles. Are dissected with the upper limb. Are distributed to the :erior 1 muscles of the back, L branches - ) and give off cutaneous nerves. Sympathetic Nerve. fCarotidpiexns which |Bjanch.to.trpanic plexus 1. Superior cervical ganglion has - Ascending branches, which unite in plexuses gives " (tothe sixth and fifth cranial nerves. cavernous which branches plexus, gives external branches internal branches To the third cranial nerve to the fourth cranial nerve to the fifth and lenticular ganglion to the carotid artery and branches. To join pneumo-gastric and hypoglossal nerves to the spinal nerves. _ r Pharyngeal branches " l superficial cardiac nerve. ^branches to vessels - Nervi molles. }. Middle C External branches cervical < ganglion - (, internal - - To the spinal nerves. {Middle cardiac nerve to supply thyroid body and join the external laryngeal. Inferior ("Anterior branches - To the subclavian artery, "cervical J pvtprnal - f To the sPiual nerves forming BaneSonO ~<- vertebral plexus. - , " 0nterna* - Inferior cardiac nerve.244 CHAPTER III. DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. Section I. THE WALL OF THE THORAX AND THE AXILLA. Direc- The parts included in this Section, viz. the wall of the the dis- chest and the axilla, are to be learnt within a fixed time, in order that the examination of the thorax may be undertaken. "Whilst the dissection of the thorax is in progress, the student will have to discontinue his labours on the upper limb; but, on the completion of that cavity, he must be ready to begin the part of the back that may belong to him. Position Position. — Whilst the body lies on the back, the thorax of body. ^ ^ raise(j ^0 a convenient height by a block, and the arm, being slightly rotated outwards, is to be placed at a right angle to the trunk of the body. Before the dissection is begun, attention should be given by the student to the chief depressions on the surface, to the prominences of muscles, and to the projection of the bones; because these serve as guides to the position of objects beneath the skin. Marking Surface-marking. — Between the arm and the chest is the face!r" hollow of the arm-pit, in which the large vessels and nerves rm.pit. o£ ^e ijmb are lodged. The extent of this hollow may be seen to vary much with the position of the limb to the trunk ; for in proportion as the arm is elevated, the boundaries are carried upwards, and rendered tense, and the depth of the space is diminished. In this spot the skin is of a dark colour, and is furnished wTith hairs, and large sweat glands. If the arm is forcibly raised and moved in different direc- tions, whilst the fingers of one hand are placed in the arm- pit, the head of the humerus may be recognised, shoui- On the outer side of the limb is the prominence of the tier. shoulder; and immediately above it is an osseous arch, which is formed internally by the clavicle, and externally by the spine and the acromion process of the scapula. Con-THE WALL OF THE THORAX. 245 R 3 tinued downwards from about the middle of the clavicle, between the pectoral and deltoid muscles, is a slight depres- sion, in which the coracoid process can be felt near that bone. A second groove is sometimes seen extending outwards from the sternal end of the clavicle; this corresponds to the interval between the clavicular and sternal origins of the great pectoral muscle. Along the front of the arm is the prominence of the biceps Arm. muscle; and on each side of that muscle is a groove, which subsides inferiorly in a depression in front of the elbow- joint. The inner of the two grooves is the most marked, and corresponds to the position of the brachial vessels. If the elbow-joint be semiflexed, the prominences of the Eibow- outer and inner condyles of the humerus will be rendered evident, especially that on the inner side of the limb. Below the outer condyle, and separated from it by a slight interval, is the projection of the head of the radius, which will be recognised by rotating this bone, the fingers at the same time being placed over it. At the back of the articulation is the prominence of the olecranon. Dissection, — The dissection is to be commenced by raising Dissec- the skin from the side of the chest, and from the arm-pit, so tSse'the as to lay bare the great pectoral muscle and the hollow of men?"" the axilla beneath it. These parts may be denuded by means of the following incisions :—one is to be made along the middle of the sternum (its whole length); another is to be continued along the clavicle for the inner two thirds of the length of that bone, and thence down the front of the arm as low as the fold of the arm-pit. From the xiphoid cartilage two other cuts are to be directed outwards: — one is to extend along the anterior fold of the arm-pit, till it is a little below the extremity of the other cut at that spot, and is then to be turned across the inner part of the arm, as far as to the posterior fold of the axilla. The remaining incision is to pass horizontally outwards over the side of the chest, opposite the xiphoid cartilage, as far back as to a level with the posterior fold of the arm-pit. The two flaps now marked out should be reflected outwards, and be left attached to the body, in order that they may be afterwards used for the preservation of the part. The subcutaneous fascia of the thorax resembles the same Fascia;,246 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. super- structure in other parts of the body; but in this locality the superficial layer does not contain much fat. deep. Beneath the subcutaneous layer is a deeper and stronger special fascia that closely invests the muscles, and is con- tinuous with the deep fascia of the arm. It is thin on the side of the chest, but becomes much thicker where it is stretched across the axilla. An incision through it, over the armpit, will render evident its increased strength in this situation, and its connections with the muscular folds of the axilla ; and if the fore-finger be introduced through the opening, some idea will be gained of its capability of con- fining an abscess in that hollow. Dissec- Dissection. — The cutaneous nerves of the side of the cuta. chest are next to be sought in the fat. Some of these (from nerves of the cervical plexus) will be found crossing the clavicle at the . chest, the middle, and at the inner part; others (anterior cutaneous of the thorax) appear at the side of the sternum,—one from each intercostal space; and others (lateral cutaneous of the thorax) should be sought along the side of the chest, about one inch below the anterior fold of the axilla, there being one from each intercostal space except the first. As soon as the last mentioned nerves appear through the muscles, they are divided into an anterior and a posterior branch : in the two highest nerves the posterior branches are larger than in the rest; they are to be followed across the arm-pit, and a junction is to be found with a branch (nerve of Wrisberg) of the brachial plexus. Descend- Cutaneous nerves of the cervical plexus. — These cross taneous the clavicle, and are distributed to the integuments over the nerves of cervical pectoral muscle. The most internal branch (sternal) lies near the inner end of the bone, and reaches but a short dis- tance below it. Other branches (clavicular), two or more in number, and of larger size, cross the centre of the clavicle, and extend to near the lower border of the pectoralis major; these join one or more of the anterior cutaneous nerves of the thorax. cmane- The cutaneous nerves of the thorax are derived from the branches trunks of the intercostal nerves between the ribs. Of these of the in- tercostai there are two sets: — one, the lateral cutaneous nerves ot nerves. Are in the thorax, arise from the trunks of the nerves about mid- rows. way between the spine and the sternum; the other set, theTHE MAMMARY GLAND. 247 R 4 anterior cutaneous nerves of the thorax, are the terminations of the same intercostal trunks at the middle line of the body. The anterior cutaneous nerves, after piercing the pectoral one^ muscle, are directed outwards in the integuments in the middle form of slender filaments. The offset of the second nerve joins a cutaneous branch of the cervical plexus; and the others supply the mammary gland and the integuments. Small cutaneous branches of the internal mammary vessels are found with these nerves. The lateral cutaneous nerves come between the dictations The ° other on of the serratus muscle, and divide immediately into an side of J chest. anterior and a posterior branch. There is not usually any These lateral cutaneous nerve to the first intercostal trunk; and that of the second intercostal trunk wants commonly the anterior of the two offsets, into which the other lateral cutaneous nerves bifurcate. The anterior branches bend forwards over the pectoral muscle, anterior and furnish offsets to the mammary gland and the integuments. The lowest also give twigs to the digitations of the external oblique muscle. The posterior branches are distributed to the integuments over posterior the latissimus dorsi muscle and the back of the scapula. The es. branch from the second intercostal nerve is larger than the rest, and, perforating the fascia of the axilla, supplies the integument of One or the arm (p. 277.), from which circumstance it is named intercosto- thisle? humeral. As it crosses the axilla it is divided into two or more [hTarm. pieces, and is connected to the nerve of Wrisberg by a filament of variable size. The branch of the third intercostal also gives fila- ments to the arm-pit and the inner part of the arm. The mamma, or the breast, is the gland for the secretion office of the of the milk, and is situate on the front of the chest, though breast, somewhat towards the lateral aspect. The gland is hemispherical in form, and is placed over Form 7 i • • \ • andposi- the great pectoral muscle, but it is rather most prominent tion; at the inner and the lower part. Its dimensions and weight with its vary greatly. In a breast that is not enlarged by lactation, sions the mamma measures commonly about four inches in each direction ; and extends longitudinally from the third to the sixth or seventh rib, and transversely from the side of the sternum to the axilla. Its depth is about one inch and aDISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 248 and half. The weight of the breast ranges from six to eight weight. ° o to ounces. Position Nearly in the centre of the gland (rather to the inner side of the of the centre) is the conical or cylindrical projection of the mppie. n-ppie or mamilla. This projection is about half an inch or rather more in length, is slightly turned outwards, and presents in the centre a shallow depression, where it is like- andjhe wise rather redder. Around the nipple is a coloured ring, Colour is the areola, about an inch in width, whose tint is influenced altered. ^ ^ complexion 0f ^he body, and, in life also, during the skin has time of menstruation, pregnancy, and lactation. The skin gland*, -^offo of the nipple and its areola is provided with nume- rous papillae and lubricating glands ; and on the surface are some tubercles marking the position of the ducts of those glands. Breast In the male the mammary gland resembles that of the male! female in general form, for it is prominent, though in a much less degree; and it possesses a small nipple, which is sur- rounded by an areola provided with hairs. Farther than this the similitude does not hold, for the glandular or secre- tory structure is very imperfect, struc Structure. — In its texture the mamma resembles those ture. compound glands that are formed by the vesicular endings of branched ducts. During lactation the glandular mass is of a reddish white colour, and consists of small vesicles, which are united to form lobules and lobes. Connected with each lobe is an excretory or lactiferous duct; and the whole is surrounded, and bound together by areolar tissue, invest- A cellular layer, containing fat, surrounds the gland, and luiar penetrates into the interior, subdividing it into lobes. Some and ■ fibrous septa fix the gland to the skin, and support it; these tissue, are the ligamenta suspensoria of Sir A. Cooper. In the ultimate structure of the gland, in the nipple, and in the areola, there is not any fatty substance. Texture Vesicles, lobules, and lobes. — The little vesicles or cells form of at the ends of the most minute ducts are lenticular or rounded ciees.vesl" in shape, and when filled with milk or mercury are just visible to the naked eye, being about the size of a small pin- hole in paper. — (Cooper.) Each is surrounded externally Vesicles by a close vascular network. A collection of the vesicles lobules, around their duct forms the smallest divisions of the gland,THE MAMMARY GLAND. 249 viz. lobules or glandules, which vary in size from a pin's and head to a small tare. By the union of the lobules the lobes lobes, are produced, of which there are about twenty altogether, and each is provided with a distinct duct. The ducts issuing; from the several lobes are about twenty La<^- ° m J ferous in number, and are named from their office galactopherous ducts; ducts; they converge to the areola, where they swell into oblong dilatations or reservoirs (sacculi) of one-sixth to one- third of an inch in width. Onwards from that spot the ducts become straight, and are continued through the nipple, nearly parallel to one another, and gradually narrowing in size, to open on its summit by apertures varying from the open on size of a bristle to that of a common pin. Like other excre- ™PP|e- tory ducts, the milk tubes consist of an external or fibrous, ture. and an internal or mucous coat; they are sheathed also by a scaly or pavement epithelium, and in the reservoirs the epithelial lining is said to be columnar. In the nipple the ducts are surrounded by elastic fibrous tissue. Some of the lubricating glands beneath the skin of the Sma11 „ ° a glands of nipple and that of the areola are simple sebaceous glands, skin- but others are larger aggregate glands that open in the tu- bercles before mentioned. Bloodvessels, nerves, and lymphatics. — The arteries of the breast Arteries i -. • . of the are supplied by the axillary, internal mammary, and intercostal gUnd arteries, and enter both surfaces of the organ. The vessels on the cutaneous surface supply branches to the nipple, which pass from base to apex, being nearly parallel. The veins, after issuing from and the substance of the breast, are thus disposed:—some form a plexus velns on the anterior aspect, and a circle around the areola, and end prin- cipally in the axillary and internal mammary trunks; but others enter one or more of the intercostal veins, or ascend over the clavicle to join the veins of the neck. In the nipple the veins have in nip- an arrangement like that of the arteries. The nerves are supplied Serves from the anterior and lateral cutaneous nerves of the thorax, viz. those of the third, fourth, and fifth intercostal nerves. The lymph- Lymph. atics pass either from the inner or the outer part of the gland: at the former side they accompany the branches of the internal mammary artery, and open into the anterior mediastinal glands; and on the latter, they reach the axillary glands. Dissection.—With the arm in the same position with pissec- 1 tion of respect to the trunk, the student is first to remove the fascia pectoral 1 7 muscle and the fat from the surface of the great pectoral muscle.DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 250 In this proceeding the scalpel should be carried in the direc- tion of the fibres, viz. from the arm to the thorax ; and the dissection may be begun either at the upper or lower border of the muscle, according as the one or the other may be the most convenient on the opposite sides of the body, and the The fascia and the fat are then to be taken from the arm- ann-pit. pit, but the numerous vessels, nerves, and glands contained in the space, are to be left uninjured. The dissection will be best begun, at the outer part, by removing the fascia from the large axillary vessels, where these are about to quit the space and enter the arm. Following upwards those bloodvessels, the student will arrive at the branches that are directed towards the chest, viz. the long thoracic under cover of the anterior boundary, and the circumflex and subscapular vessels and nerves on the posterior boundary of the axilla. Some arterial twigs enter the axillary glands, and a few should be traced out. In taking away the fascia from the posterior boundary of the space, so as to follow the muscles to their insertion into the humerus, a small nerve (internal cutaneous of the musculo-spiral) should be looked for to- wards the great vessels. THE AXILLA. situa- The axilla, or arm-pit, is the hollow between the arm and form of the chest. It is somewhat conical in form, and has the apex pit.arm" upwards at the root of the neck. The space is larger near the thorax than at the arm, and its boundaries are as fol- lows : — Bounda- Boundaries. — In front and behind the space is limited by muscles passing from the trunk of the body to the upper limb, and the folds of the axilla are constructed by the The unattached parts of those fleshy strata. In the anterior muscles boundary are the two pectoral muscles, but these take un- equal shares in its construction in consequence of the differ- ence in their shape and size: for the pectoralis major extends over the whole front of the space, reaching from the clavicle to the lower edge of the anterior fold ; but the pec- toralis minor, which is a narrow muscle, corresponds only latLsi ^° ^e m^^e Par^ or third °f tnat fold. In the posterior mus boundary, from above downwards, are the subscapularis, theTHE AXILLARY SPACE. 251 teres major, and the latissimus dorsi muscles : this boundary teres and reaches lower than the anterior, especially near the humerus, puians and its lower margin, which is formed by the latissimus dorsi, projects beyond the level of the subscapulars. On the inner side of the arm-pit are the first four ribs, parts at with their corresponding intercostal muscles, and the part andlnner of the serratus magnus that takes origin from those bones, sides. On the outer side the space has but small dimensions, and is limited by the humerus, and by the biceps and coraco- brachial muscles. The apex of the hollow is situate between the clavicle, the situa- upper margin of the scapula, and the first rib; and the fore the apex finger may be introduced into the space, for the purpose of ascertaining its depth, as well as its upper boundary. The and base, base or widest part of the conically-shaped interval is turned downwards, and is closed by the thick aponeurosis that reaches from the anterior to the posterior fold. Contents of the space. — In the arm-pit are contained the Contents axillary vessels and the brachial plexus, with their branches; space, some branches of the intercostal nerves ; together writh lym- phatic glands, and a large quantity of loose cellular tissue and fat. The position of all these, with reference to the boundaries of the space, is to be carefully studied. Position of the trunks. — The large axillary vessels cross Position the space obliquely between the neck and the upper limb. The part of these vessels, that can now be seen, reaches beyond the line of the anterior fold of the arm-pit, and is covered and con- only by the common superficial layers, viz. the skin, the of thens fatty or superficial fascia, and the deep fascia. Behind the vessel? vessels are the tendons of the latissimus and teres muscles. On looking into the arm-pit, from below, the axillary vein will be found to lie to the thoracic side of the artery, and to conceal it. After the vein has been drawn aside, the arterial trunk will be seen to lie amongst the large nerves of the upper limb, with the median nerve to the outside ; the ulnar, and the small nerve of Wrisberg to the inner side ; the in- ternal cutaneous generally in front of, and the musculo-spiral nerve behind it. This part of the artery gives branches to the side of the chest and to the shoulder. The vein, like- wise, receives some branches in this spot.252 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. situa- Position of the branches, — The several branches of the branches large vessels and nerves have the undermentioned position of vessels and " with respect to the boundaries. Close to the anterior fold, on the and rather concealed by it, the long thoracic artery extends bounda- _ . _ „ _ , if. , ,. . nes of to the side oi the chest; and taking the same direction, pit. though nearer the middle of the arm-pit, is a small com- panion vein (external mammary). Extending along the posterior fold, within its lower margin, and in contact with the edge of the subscapularis muscle, are the subscapular vessels and nerves; and near the humeral end of the sub- scapularis the posterior circumflex vessels and nerve bend backwards beneath the large axillary trunks. On the inner boundary, near the upper part, are a few inconsiderable branches of the superior thoracic artery, which ramify on the serratus muscle ; but these are commonly so unimportant, that this part of the axillary space may be considered free from vessels in respect of any surgical operation. Lying on the surface of the serratus magnus muscle, is the external respiratory nerve of Bell; and perforating the inner bound- ary of the space, are the lateral cutaneous nerves of the thorax,—two or more offsets of which are directed across the axilla to the arm, and receive the name intercosto-hu- meral. Lymph- The lymphatic glands occupy principally the lower part glands of of the axilla, and lie nearer the chest than the arm. Com- axiiia. monly they are ten or twelve in number; but in this parti- cular, as well as in size, they vary much. By their lower ends the glands receive the lymphatic vessels of the arm, of the fore part of the thorax, of the mamma, and of the pos- terior surface of the back: their efferent ducts unite to form end m a trunk that opens in the neck, into the lymphatic duct of phatic the same side, or into the subclavian vein by a separate tube. Small vascular twigs from the branches of the ax- illary vessels are furnished to the glands. Pecto. The pectoralis major is a triangularly-shaped muscle, muscle, which has its base at the thorax and its apex at the arm. It Origin arises internally from the front of the sternum, and the car- chest tilages of the true ribs except the last; superiorly, from the clavicle, sternal half of the clavicle; and inferiorly from the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. From this wide253 PECTORAL MUSCLES. origin the fibres take different directions,—those from the clavicle being inclined obliquely downwards, and those from the lower ribs upwards, beneath the former; and all end in a tendon, which is inserted into the outer edg£ of the bicipital 1™**$^ groove of the humerus. This muscle bounds the axilla h"sme"- anteriorly, and is connected sometimes to its fellow by fibres in front of the sternum. Besides the superficial structures Parts; 1 covering and the mamma, the platysma covers the pectoralis major ifc> .close below the clavicle. A cellular interval, which corre- sponds to the depression on the surface, separates the clavi- cular from the sternal attachment. One border (upper) is and i v along in contact with the deltoid muscle, and with the cephalic the borders. vein and a small artery; and the lower border forms the margin of the anterior fold of the axilla. Dissection.—-It will now be necessary to cut the great Djssec- pectoral muscle, but this may be done in the following man- ^rtthgebe ner. First, only the clavicular part is to be divided, so that jjeath a branch of nerve and artery to the muscle may be found, raiis. and a thin membrane around the blood vessels be prepared. By raising the cut part of the muscle, and carefully remov- ing, with the handle of the knife, the fat that appears above the border of the small pectoral muscle, the membra- nous sheath (costo-coracoid), that contains the axillary ves- sels and nerves, will be seen; at the same time the cepha- lic vein will be detected crossing inwards to the axillary vein. A branch of nerve (anterior thoracic), and the acro- mial thoracic artery perforate this tube of membrane, and are to be followed to the pectoral muscles. ; The remaining part of the pectoralis major may be cut its inser- about its centre, and the pieces thrown inwards and out- wards. Any fat, now coming into view, is to be removed, and the insertion of the tendon of the pectoralis is to be fol- lowed to the humerus. The parts beneath the pectoral muscle are now laid bare. Insertion of the pectoralis. — The tendon of this muscle Tendon n , ofinser- consists ot two parts, anterior and posterior, at its attachment tion of to the bone; the anterior receives the clavicular and upper rails?" sternal fibres, and joins the tendon of the deltoid muscle ; and the posterior gives attachment to the lower ascending fibres. The tendon is one inch and a half to two inches wide, and sends upwards one expansion over the bicipital254 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. groove to the head of the humerus, another backwards to line the groove, and a third to the fascia of the arm. Parts Parts covered bythepectoralis.—The great pectoral muscle by the covers the pectoralis minor, and forms alone, above and below that muscle, the anterior boundary of the axilla. Between the pectoralis minor and the clavicle it conceals the subcla- vian muscle, the sheath containing the axillary vessels, and the branches that perforate the sheath. Below the small pectoralis it lies on the side of the chest, on the axillary vessels and nerves, and, near the humerus, on the biceps and coraco-brachialis muscles. Pectora- The pectoralis minor resembles the preceding muscle in lis minor L ■ ° *™jjjs shape, and is extended like it from the thorax to the arm. chest; jjg origin is connected, by means of slips, with the front and the upper border of the third, fourth, and fifth ribs, external to their cartilages ; and between the ribs, with the aponeu- rosis covering the intercostal muscles. The fibres converge inserted to their insertion into the upper surface of the anterior half puia. of the coracoid process of the scapula. This muscle is placed Connec- before the axillary space, and assists the pectoralis major in with forming the middle part of the anterior boundary. In that around, position it conceals the axillary vessels and the accompany- ing nerves, and two small anterior thoracic nerves. The tipper border lies near the clavicle, but between it and that bone is an interval of a somewhat triangular form. The lower border projects beyond the pectoralis major, close to the chest ; and along it the long thoracic artery lies. The tendon of insertion is united with that of the coraco-brachi- alis and the short head of the biceps. Costo- The costo-coracoid membrane, or ligament, receives this name from its insertion on the one side into the rib, and on the other into the coracoid process of the scapula. Between those points of attachment it is connected to the clavicle, conceals and covers the subclavius muscle ; but when traced down- vius, and wards, the membrane is found to descend around the axillary sheath* vessels and nerves, to which it furnishes a loose tube, and to vessels, join the common cellular sheaths on those trunks beneath the small pectoral muscle : its extent moreover is not so great on the inner as on the outer side, for internally it reaches but a very short distance on the axillary vein. This sheath (axillary) resembles, in its form and office, the funnel-shaped coracoid mem- braneAXILLARY ARTERY. 255 tube of membrane that surrounds the femoral vessels in the upper part of the thigh. The front of the sheath is strongest strong- near the subclavius muscle, where it forms a strong band front! over the axillary blood vessels. The anterior part of the tube is perforated by the acromial thoracic artery and the anterior thoracic nerve. Dissection. — The tube of fascia around the vessels will be Dissec- demonstrated by making a transverse cut in the membrane costo°-f near the clavicle, so that the handle of the scalpel can be EMd passed beneath it around the vessels and nerves. By raising the lower border of the subclavius, this muscle will be seen to be incased by fascia, viz. in front by the costo-coracoid membrane, and behind by a strong process of the deep cer- vical fascia, that descends beneath the muscle to join the membrane in this position. After the costo-coracoid membrane has been examined, clean the remains of it are to be taken away ; and the upper part of the axillary vessels and nerves, with their branches, is to be carfully cleaned. The subclavius muscle is thin and roundish in form, and subcia- is placed between the clavicle and the first rib. It arises by muscle a tendon from the first rib, at the junction of the osseous and cartilaginous parts, and in front of the costo-clavicular liga- ment. The fibres ascend obliquely, and are inserted into a is at- tached to groove on the under surface of the clavicle which reaches clavicle between the two tubercles, internal and external, for the at- rib. tachment of the costo and coraco-clavicular ligaments. The muscle overhangs the large vessels and nerves of the limb, and is enclosed, as before said, in a sheath of fascia. The axillary artery is the continuation of the subcla- Axillary vian vessel onwards through the axilla to the upper limb ; anery ls and the part of the vessel, to which this name is applied, ex- tends from the lower border of the first rib to the lower border of the teres major muscle. In its course through the axillary space, its direction is dependant upon the position of the limb to the trunk; for when the arm lies by the side of f£ehedin the body the vessel is curved, its convexity being upwards, axilla- and in proportion as the limb is removed to a right angle with the chest the artery becomes straight. In the upper part of the axilla the vessel is deeply placed, but it becomes256 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. Has foi- superficial as it approaches the arm. Its connections with connec- surrounding parts are numerous; and the description of these will be facilitated by dividing the artery into three parts—one above, one beneath, and one below the small pectoral muscle. above a. Above the small pectoral muscle the artery is con- pectorai tained in the sheath of the costo-coracoid membrane ; on its muscle, thoracic side is the axillary vein, and on its acromial side, the brachial plexus, but the cords of the nerves are separated from it by a cellular interval. In this part the cephalic vein crosses it, and it is covered by the clavicular portion of the great pectoral muscle. Behind it are the intercostal muscles of the first space and the first digitation of the serratus mag- nus muscle, together with a small nerve, the external respi- ratory. beneath b. Beneath the pectoralis the artery is surrounded by the muscle, large nervous cords of the plexus, and is thus separated from the vein which is still to the inner side, and from the sur- rounding muscles. Superficial to the vessel is the pectoralis minor, with part of the pectoralis major; but there is not any muscle immediately in contact with it behind, for the artery is now placed at the top of the axillary space, parti- cularly when the limb is in the position required by the dissection. and be- c. Beyond the pectoralis minor the artery is concealed >ondlt- -n part the lower border of the great pectoral muscle, but beyond that, to its termination, it is covered only by the integuments and the fascia. Beneath it will be found the lower part of the subscapulars muscle, and the tendons of the latissimus and teres. To the outer side is the caraco- brachialis muscle. Here the artery is still in the midst of the large trunks of nerves into which the plexus has been Position resolved : — Thus on the outer side is the median nerve, ofnerveswith the external cutaneous for a short distance; on the inner side are the ulnar and internal cutaneous, with the nerve of Wrisberg ; and behind are the musculo-spiral and circumflex nerves, the latter extending only as far as the and border of the subscapular muscle. The axillary vein remains ™n to as above on the thoracic side of the artery. Branch- The branches of the axillary artery are furnished to the supped wal* of the thorax and to the shoulder. The thoracicTHE AXILLARY VESSELS. 257 branches are four in number; two of these (superior and to the ) acromial thoracic) arise from the artery above the pectoralis minor, one (alar thoracic) beneath the muscle, and one (long thoracic) at the lower border. Three branches are supplied to the shoulder, viz. one subscapular and two cir- and the cumflex; the first springs opposite the edge of the muscle of der, the same name, and the others wind round the neck of the humerus. 1. The superior thoracic branch is the highest offset of the artery, upper" and arises opposite the first intercostal space ; it is a small vessel, tnoraclc ■ and ramifies on the side of the chest, where it anastomoses with the intercostal arteries. 2. The acromial thoracic branch is a short trunk on the front of Acro- the artery, which appears at the upper border of the pectoralis Jidc***0" minor, and opposite the interval between the large pectoral and ls large' deltoid muscles. Its branches are directed either inwards to supply and sup- the two pectoral, or outwards to the deltoid muscle. The inner or thorax thoracic set, besides supplying the thoracic muscles, give a few jfJJoui- offsets to the side of the chest, which anastomose with the inter- der- costal and other thoracic arteries. The outer or acromial set end mostly in the deltoid, but one small artery which is derived from them accompanies the cephalic vein for a short distance; and an- inferior ... . acromial other branch (inferior acromial) perforates the deltoid muscle, and offset, anastomoses on the acromion process, with a branch of the supra- scapular artery of the neck. One or two small twigs ascend from the trunk of the artery to the subclavius and deltoid muscles. 3. The alar thoracic branch is very inconstant as a distinct artery, Alar and its place is supplied frequently by offsets of the subscapular veryTr-C or long thoracic branches; the artery is distributed to the glands resular- of the axillary space. 4. The long thoracic branch (external mammary) is directed Long along the border of the pectoralis minor to the side of the chest, on which it extends to about the sixth intercostal space ; it supplies the pectoral and serratus muscles, and anastomoses with the intercos- tal and thoracic arteries. In the female it gives branches to the mammary gland. A second external mammary artery is not unfrequently met A second with, especially in the female; its position is nearer the middle ofartery" the axilla with the vein of the same name. 5. The subscapular branch courses with a nerve of the same Snbsca- name along the subscapular muscle, as far as the lower angle of the pular has scapula, where it ends in branches for the serratus magnus and the latissimus dorsi and teres muscles. Near its origin the artery sends backward a considerable branch round the edge of the sub-DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 258 brandf1 scaPu^ar muscle ' this dorsal branch gives an offset, infra scapular, to the ventral aspect of the scapula, and then turns to the dorsum of that bone, where it will be afterwards dissected. The subsca- pular artery is frequently combined at its origin with other branches of the axillary, or with branches of the brachial artery. Two 6. The circumflex branches (anterior and posterior) arise near flex. the end of the axillary artery. One turns in front of, and the other behind the bone. They will be dissected in the examination of the arm. Axillary The axillary vein continues upwards the basilic vein of vein' the arm, and has the same extent and connections as the extent axillary artery. It lies to the thoracic side of the artery, nection"" and receives thoracic and subscapular branches. Opposite Branch- subscapular muscle it is joined, externally, by a large vein, which is formed by the venas comites of the brachial artery ; and near the clavicle the cephalic vein opens into it. Dissec- Dissection.—In order that the branches of the brachial brachial plexus may be followed out, the pectoralis minor is to be cut plexus, ikro^g]^ near its insertion into the coracoid process, and to be turned towards the chest, but without injuring the thoracic nerves in contact with it. The axillary vessels are then to be cut across opposite the second rib*, and to be drawn down with hooks; and their thoracic branches may likewise be removed. A dense fascia is to be cleared away from the large nerves of the plexus. Nerves The brachial plexus results from the union of the an- brachSf terior branches of the first dorsal and the four lower cervical plexus. nerveg. an(j t0 the completion of the plexus, a slip is its situa- added from the lowest nerve in the cervical plexus. This interlacement of the nerves is placed partly in the neck and partly in the axilla, and divides opposite the coracoid process into large trunks for the supply of the limb. The part of the plexus above the clavicle is described in the dissection of and con- the head and neck (p. 75.). The part below the clavicle has ' the same connections as the axillary artery with the sur- rounding muscles, and the nerves are arranged in it in the following manner:— i * The student must be careful not to cut the vessels higher than the spot mentioned, otherwise he will injure the dissection of the neck.259 THE BRACHIAL PLEXUS. s 2 At first the plexus consists of two cords, which are placed The external to the artery, and are thus constituted ; — that form ; nearest the vessel is formed by the last cervical and first cords that lie dorsal nerves, and the other, by the fifth, sixth, and seventh around cervical nerves. But a third cord is soon produced by the tery, union of two fasciculi, which are derived, one from each of the others; so that, beneath the small pectoral muscle, the plexus consists of three large cords, one being to the outer side, one to the inner side, and one behind the vessel. Occasionally there may be some deviation from this mode of arrangement. The branches of the plexus below the clavicle are fur- and give 1 the nished to the muscles of the front of the chest, to some of several branch- the muscles of the scapula and the latissimus dorsi, and to es>viz- the arm. They arise from the several cords in the following way:-—, The outer cord gives origin to one anterior thoracic from the branch, to the musculo-cutaneous trunk, and to the outer head of the median nerve. The inner cord produces a second anterior thoracic nerve, inner, . and the inner head of the median, the internal cutaneous, the nerve of Wrisberg, and the ulnar nerve. The posterior cord furnishes the subscapular branches, and P°rs*erior ends in the circumflex and musculo-spiral nerves. Only the thoracic and subscapular nerves are now dissected The foi- . . . lowing to their termination; the remaining nerves will be seen in are seen, 0 viz. the arm. The anterior thoracic branches are two in number, — two an- terior outer and inner with respect to the cords of the plexus. thoracic, a. The outer nerve crosses inwards, over the axillary artery, to outer the under surface of the great pectoral muscle in which it ends. On the inner side of the vessel it communicates with the following branch, b. The inner thoracic branch turns upwards between the and artery and vein, and, after receiving the branch of junction from the other, divides into many branches that enter the under surface of the pectoralis minor. Some twigs enter the great pectoral muscle, after passing either through or above the border of the pectoralis minor. The subscapular nerves are three in number. Two enter Three the subscapular muscle, and are named upper and lower puiar ;" from their relative position; and the third is the long sub- scapular.DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 260 upper, «. The upper branch is the smallest and enters the highest part lower, of the subscapularis muscle, b. The lower subscapular branch (nerve of the teres muscle) gives an offset to the inferior part of long sub- the subscapular muscle, and ends in the teres major, c. The lovsr scapular. 7 7 . . - « , subscapular nerve takes the course of the artery of the same name along the posterior wall of the axilla, and ends in the latissimus dorsi muscle. Poste- Another small nerve, posterior thoracic (nerve to the rior tho- ■* racic. serratus, external respiratory, Bell) is now seen on the sur- face of the serratus muscle. It arises above the clavicle (p. 76.), from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves; to reach its destination, it descends behind the axillary artery, and enters the surface of the serratus magnus muscle which is towards the axilla. Latis- The latissimus dorsi muscle may now be examined as the fold far as it enters into the posterior fold of the axilla. Arising axilla, from the back of the trunk of the body, and crossing the lower angle of the scapula, the muscle ascends to be inserted by a tendon into the bottom of the bicipital groove. At its attachment to the bone, the tendon is about one inch and a half in depth, and is in front of that of the teres ; at its lower border aponeurotic fibres connect it with the teres, but a well marked bursa intervenes between the two near the bone. Disposi- The fibres have a cross arrangement in their course to the tion of tendon 0f insertion; for whilst those that are attached to the fibref* lower ribs ascend to the upper edge of the tendon, those from the spines of the dorsal vertebrae descend to its lower edge. Thus the fibres produce a hollow or groove, which lodges the lower border of the scapula and the teres major muscle. Dissec- Dissection, — To lay bare the serratus muscle, which the ser- passes from the chest to the base of the scapula, the arm ratus* must be drawn from the trunk, so as to separate the scapula from the thorax. The nerves of the brachial plexus should then be cut through opposite the second rib, and the fat and the cellular structure should be cleaned from the surface of the muscle. serratus The serratus magnus muscle extends between the base £ attach- of the scapula and the thorax. It arises from the outer sur- ribs and face and the lower border of the eight upper ribs, about two scapula, jJacjiea from their cartilages, by pointed processes, which are nine in number, in consequence of the second rib havingTHE WALL OF THE THORAX. 261 two. The fibres converge towards the base and the angles of the scapula, but from a difference in their direction, the muscle appears to consist of three parts. The upper part is and fibres attached internally to the first two ribs and to an aponeurotic seem to arch between them; and externally to an impression on the three ventral surface of the upper angle of the scapula. A middle part, which is very thin, extends from the second, third, and fourth ribs to the base of the shoulder bone. And a lower part, which is the strongest, is connected on the one side with four ribs (fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth), where it digitates with like processes of origin of the external oblique muscle ; and, on the other side, it is fixed into the rough surface of bone on the costal aspect of the lower angle of the scapula. The muscle is applied against the ribs and the conneo. intercostal muscles, and is partly concealed by the pectoral the mus- muscles and the axillary vessels and nerves : in the ordinary *J position of the arm, the scapula and the subscapularis muscle are in contact with it. Dissection. — The intercostal muscles will be brought into Dissec- view by detaching the processes of origin of the serratus of the from the ribs, and taking the cellular membrane from the costal external layer of those muscles. Towards the front of the chest a thin aponeurosis, that is continued forwards from the external fleshy stratum to the sternum, is to be retained. Some of the lateral cutaneous nerves should be preserved. The intercostal muscles are named from their position inter- between the ribs. There are two layers in each space; but muscles neither stratum occupies the whole length of a space, for one layers in (the external) stops short of the middle line in front, and the space, other (internal) fails to reach the middle line behind. Their number, and their depth and size are determined by the inter- costal spaces. And the direction of the fibres differs in each stratum; for, whilst those of the external muscle pass very obliquely downwards and forwards, those of the internal layer have an opposite though less oblique direction, so that the fibres cross. The external muscle is fixed to the outer margins of the outer ribs of the corresponding space, and consists of fleshy and layer tendinous fibres. Posteriorly the fibres begin at the tubercle iS defi. of the rib, and anteriorly they end short of the middle line, Srty • but after a different manner in the upper and lower spaces.DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 262 differ* In the intervals corresponding to the true ribs, they cease near above the cartilages, and a thin aponeurosis is continued onwards below, from the point of ending to the sternum. In the lower spaces, the muscles are continued between the cartilages (Theile), and in the last two they reach the ends of the ribs. Dissec- Dissection. — T.he internal intercostal muscle will be seen deeper by cutting through and removing the external layer in one of muse e, ^e SpaceSj sav the second, where it is widest; the muscle will be recognised by the difference in the direction of the fibres, of nerves Far back between the two muscles, and close to the rib vessels, above, the intercostal nerve and artery will be found. A branch of the nerve to the surface (lateral cutaneous of the thorax) should be followed through the external muscular layer ; and the trunk of the nerve is to be traced forward in one or more spaces to the sternum and the surface of the thorax. The hinder part of these muscles will be seen in the dissection of the back, and that of the thorax. Inner The internal intercostal muscle is attached to the inner the6r °f border of the ribs bounding the intercostal space. It begins deficient in front at the anterior part of the space, and ceases behind rioriy"? near the angle of the ribs. Behind, the muscles do not end joins at the same distance from the spine, for the upper and lower oblique approach nearer than the middle set; and, in front, in the below. . two lowest spaces, the muscular fibres are continuous with those of the internal oblique of the abdomen. One surface is covered by the external muscle and by the intercostal vessels and nerve; and the opposite surface is in contact with the pleura. Dissec- Dissection. — To bring into view the triangularis sterni internal muscle and the internal mammary vessels, the cartilage of maly each true rib, except the first and seventh, is to be taken vessels. away Qn rjght side of the body*; but those ribs are to be left untouched for the advantage of the dissectors of the abdomen and the head and neck. Small branches of arteries to each intercostal space and to the surface of the thorax, as well as the intercostal nerves, are to be preserved. The surface of the triangularis sterni will be made apparent, after the removal of the cartilages, by cleaning the cellular mem- brane from it. * On the left side the vessels and the muscle will be injured by the injection of the body.263 THE WALL OF THE THORAX. The triangularis sterni is a thin muscle, which is placed Triangu- inside the cavity of the thorax, and beneath the costal car- stemi tilages. It arises internally from the side of the xiphoid cartilage, from the side of the sternum as high as the third cartilage, and from the three or four lower sternal costal car- tilages. Its fibres are directed outwards, the upper being most oblique, and are inserted by fleshy fasciculi into the four or ^ inthe five lower true ribs, at the iunction of the bone and cartilage, andat- J . . tached to and into the aponeurosis in the intervals between the ribs, the ribs. The muscle is covered by the ribs and the internal inter- costal muscles, and by the internal mammary vessels and the intercostal nerves. It lies on the pleura ; its lower fibres Connec- are continuous with those of the transversalis abdominis. tlons" The internal mammary artery is a branch of the sub- internal clavian (p. 73.), and enters the thorax beneath the cartilage of the first rib. It is continued through the thorax, lying branch beneath the costal cartilages and about half an inch from the clavian; sternum, as far as the interval between the sixth and seventh ribs ; here it gives externally a large muscular branch (mus- culo-phrenic), and then passing beneath the seventh rib, courses enters the sheath of the rectus muscle of the wall of the abdor thorax to men. In this course in the chest the artery lies on the men." pleura and the triangularis sterni, and is crossed by the intercostal nerves. It is accompanied by two veins, and by a chain of lymphatic glands. The following branches take Branch- origin in the thorax: — a. A small branch (comes nervi phrenici) arises as soon as the to artery enters the chest, aiftl descends to the diaphragm along the nerve, phrenic nerve. b. A few small mediastinal branches are distributed to the remains medias- of the thymus gland, the pericardium, and the triangularis sternitmal' muscle. c. Two anterior intercostal branches turn outwards in each space, inter- one being placed on the border of each costal cartilage, and termi- and ' nate by anastomosing with the aortic intercostal arteries. ol. Perforating branches, one or two for each space, pierce the perfora- internal intercostal and pectoral muscles, and are distributed on branch- the surface of the body with the intercostal nerves. The lower es' branches supply the mamma in the female. e. The musculo-phrenic branch courses outwards beneath the Mus- cartilages of the seventh and eighth ribs, and enters the wall of the phrenic abdomen by perforating the diaphragm. It supplies anteriorbranch* s 4264 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. branches to the lower intercostal spaces, and its termination will be seen in the dissection of the abdominal wall. Veins. Two veins accompany the artery; these join into one trunk, which opens into the innominate vein, inter. The intercostal nerves supply the wall of the thorax, and costal . . „ , . m, nerves; are seen now in the anterior part 01 their extent. They are the anterior trunks of the dorsal nerves, and are placed at course, first between the layers of the intercostal muscles. About midway between the spine and the sternum, each gives off the lateral cutaneous nerve of the thorax : diminished in size by the emission of that offset, the trunk is continued onwards, at first in, and afterwards beneath the internal in- , termina- tercostal muscle, as far as the side of the sternum, where it tion, and branch- eno-s as tne anterior cutaneous nerve of the thorax. The es' intercostal nerves supply branches to the intercostal muscles, and to the triangularis sterni. inter- The aortic intercostal arteries furnish branches to the arteries thoracic wall; they lie with the nerves between the strata of the*Uh intercostal muscles, and nearer the upper than the lower rib ancTes' of the contained space. About the mid point (from before inTotwo. back) of the space the artery bifurcates: — one branch fol- lows the line of the upper rib, and the other descends to the lower rib: both anastomose anteriorly with the intercostal branches of the internal mammary artery. A small cuta- neous offset is distributed with the lateral cutaneous nerve of the thorax. At this The dissector of the upper limb now waits the appointed thograxhe time for the examination of the thorax. But as soon as the a?eddis!k body is turned for the dissection of the back, he is to proceed sected. tne par{S marked for him in that chapter. After the back is finished, the limb is to be detached from the trunk by sawing the clavicle about the middle, and cutting through the soft parts connected with the scapula. Section II. SCAPULAR MUSCLES, VESSELS, NERVES, AND LIGAMENTS. Position. Position. — After the limb has been separated from the trunk it is to be placed with the subscapularis uppermost.265 SCAPULAR MUSCLES. Dissection. — The different muscles that have been traced Dissec. to the scapula in the dissection of the front of the thorax and muscles, the back, are now to be cleaned, and followed to their in- sertion into the bone. A small part of each, about an inch in length, should be left for the purpose of ascertaining more exactly the osseous attachment. The borders and the angles of the scapula have the fol- Muscles lowing muscles connected with them: — The upper margin of the scapula has but one muscle, the into the omo-hjoid, attached to it. At its origin that muscle is about oTthSens half an inch wide, and is connected to the edge of the bone scapula' behind the notch, but sometimes to the ligament (posterior proper) which converts the notch into a foramen. The lower margin, or costa, gives origin to the long head of the triceps, and to some fibres of the teres major; but these statements will be verified in the progress of the dis- section. The base of the bone has many muscles inserted into it. into the Between the superior angle and the spine, the levator anguli scapulae is inserted. Opposite the spine, the rhomboideus minor is fixed; and between the spine and the inferior angle the rhomboideus major is attached: the upper fibres of the last muscle often end in an aponeurotic arch, and are thus connected indirectly to the bone by means of an ex- pansion from it. Internal to these muscles, and inserted into the whole extent of the base of the scapula, is the ser- ratus magnus muscle. On the angles of the scapula the fibres of the serratus int0 the # . angles magnus are collected in this way : the highest fibres are of the fixed to the under surface of the upper angle, and the lower fibres are inserted into an impression on the corresponding aspect of the lower angle. On the outer surface of the inferior angle lies the teres major, which will be subsequently seen. The insertion of the small pectoral muscle into the an- into co- terior and upper part of the coracoid process may be now process, ascertained. Dissection,—By the separation of the serratus from the russec- subscapularis a thin fascia comes into view, that belongs to the last muscle, and is fixed to the bone around its margins. After the fascia has been observed, it may be removed; and266 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. the muscle is then to be followed forwards to its insertion into the humerus. Next, the axillary vessels and nerves, and the offsets of these to the muscles should be nicely cleaned. subsca- The subscapulars muscle occupies the under surface of the scapula, and is concealed by that bone, when the limb is mis the in its natural position. The muscle arises from all the con- scapuia; cave surface of the ventral aspect of the scapula, except the neck and the angles, and is connected to the ridges of the is in- bone by tendinous processes. It is inserted by a tendon into serted . into the small tuberosity of the humerus, and by fleshy fibres hume- . T . rus. into the neck of the bone for nearly an inch below that Connec. process. By one surface the muscle bounds the axilla, and is in contact with the axillary vessels and nerves and the serratus magnus. By the other, it rests against the scapula and the shoulder joint; and between its tendon and the root of the coracoid process is a bursa, which generally com- municates with the shoulder joint. The lower border pro- jects much beyond the bone: it is contiguous to the teres major, and comes into contact with the latissimus dorsi and the long head of the triceps: along this border is the sub- scapular artery, which here gives backwards its dorsal branch. Dissec Dissection. — The subscapular muscle is next to be sepa- rated from the bone; and at the same time the tendinous processes of origin, the connection between the tendon of insertion and the capsule of the shoulder joint, as well as the bursa, are to be observed. A small arterial anastomosis ( on the ventral surface of the bone is likewise to be dissected out. small The infrascapular artery, ramifies on the ventral surface scapular of the scapula, and is an offset of the dorsal branch of the drtery* subscapular vessel (p. 258.). It enters beneath the sub- scapularis muscle, and forms an anastomosis with small twigs of the supra, and posterior scapular branches. Position. Position. — The examination of the muscles on the opposite shoulder surface of the scapula is next to be undertaken. For this purpose the scapula is to be turned over, and a block, which is of sufficient height to allow the shoulder to be made pro- minent, is to be placed between it and the arm. Dissec- Dissection. — The skin is to be removed from the pro- tion ofTHE DELTOID MUSCLE. 267 minence of the shoulder, by beginning in front at the an- the terior border of the deltoid muscle. Some small cutaneous der. nerves are to be found in the fat: some of these descend, from above, over the acromion, and others come to the sur- face about half way down the posterior border of the deltoid muscle. Superficial nerves. — Branches of nerves, supra-acromial, cuta- descend to the surface of the shoulder from the cervical nerves plexus (p. 59.). A cutaneous branch of the circumflex shoui- nerve turns forward from beneath the posterior border of the deltoid, and supplies the integument covering the lower two thirds of that muscle. Dissection. — The fat and fascia are now to be taken from Dissec . tion of the deltoid muscle, its fibres being made tense at the same deltoid time. Beginning at the anterior edge of the muscle, the dissector is to carry the knife upwards and downwards in the direction of the fibres, in order that its coarse, rough, muscular fasciculi may be more easily cleaned. At the same time the fascia maybe removed from the back of the scapula, so as to denude the teres major, and a part of the infra- spinatus muscle. The deltoid muscle is triangular in form, and has its Deltoid base at the scapula and clavicle, and its apex at the humerus. It arises from nearly all the lower edge of the spine of the Origin, scapula, from the anterior border of the acromion, and from the outer half or third of the clavicle. Its fibres converge to a tendon, and are inserted by means of it into an impres- inver- sion,, two inches in extent, about the middle of the outer surface of the humerus. The anterior border is contiguous Adjacent parts. to the pectoralis major muscle and the cephalic vein; and the posterior rests on the infraspinatus and triceps muscles. The origin of the muscle corresponds to the extent of the attachment of the trapezius to the bones of the shoulder; the insertion is united with the tendon of the pectoralis major, and has a fasciculus of the brachialis anticus on each side of it. Dissection. — The deltoid is to be divided near its origin, Dissec- - _ _ ' n ° tion to and thrown down as much as the circumflex vessels and detach •n • • deltoid. nerve will permit. As the muscle is raised a large thick bursa between it and the head of the humerus comes into sight. The cellular membrane is to be taken away from theDISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 268 circumflex vessels and nerve, and the remains of the bursa are to be removed. The insertion of the muscle should also be examined. Parts Parts covered by deltoid.— The deltoid conceals the head covered by the and the upper part of the humerus, and those parts of the deltoid, i . rr_ r _ _ . r dorsal scapular muscles that are nxed to the great tuberosity of that bone. Below the head of the bone are the circumflex vessels and nerve, and the upper part of the biceps muscle; and in front of the humerus is the coracoid process with its muscles. A large bursa, sometimes divided into small sacs, intervenes between the convex head of the bone and the under surfaces of the deltoid muscle and the acromion process. Dissec- Dissection. — By following back the circumflex vessels and circum- nerve, through a space between the humerus and the long seis. head of the triceps, their origin from the axillary trunks will be arrived at. In taking the fat from that space care must be taken of a branch of nerve to the teres minor muscle. Arching backwards, in front of the neck of the humerus, is the small anterior circumflex artery. Twodr- The circumflex arteries are the last branches of the axil- arteries; lary trunk, and arise near its termination (p. 258.). They are two in number, and are named anterior and posterior from their position on the neck of the humerus, anterior The anterior branch is a small artery that courses trans- versely outwards, beneath the coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles, and anastomoses in front of the humerus with branches of the posterior circumflex. As it crosses the bicipital groove it gives upwards a branch in it to the arti- culation and the head of the humerus, poste- The posterior circumflex artery is larger in size, and nor* arises opposite the border of the subscapular muscle. It winds backwards through a space between the humerus and the long head of the triceps, and is distributed chiefly to the deltoid muscle, in which it anastomoses with the acromial thoracic artery. Branches are given from it to the head of the humerus and the shoulder joint, and to anastomose with the anterior circumflex artery. It supplies branches like- wise to the teres minor, and the long head of the triceps. One cir- The circumflex nerve, at its origin (p. 259.), is placed cumflex J ' ° vr . nerve beneath the axillary artery, and leaves the axilla by turningSCAPULAR MUSCLES. 269 round the border of the subscapular muscle, with the artery of the same name. Behind the neck of the humerus the nerve divides into two parts, that supply the surrounding muscles, the integuments, and the shoulder joint: — One branch turns forwards beneath the deltoid nearly to has c»- * taneous, the anterior border, and ends in the muscle, with the excep- tion of one or two cutaneous filaments that pierce the fibres, muscu- , . lar, and The other branch gives an offset to the teres minor muscle, which is remarkable in having a gangliform swelling on it, and then becomes cutaneous over the deltoid (p. 267.), after supplying the posterior part of the muscle. Before the cir- JJJJ^ar cumflex nerve bifurcates it gives an articular filament to es* the under part of the shoulder joint. The infraspinatus muscle occupies the infraspinal fossa infra- of the scapula, and extends to the head of the humerus. The muscle muscle arises from all the infraspinal fossa of the scapula, arises except at the neck of the bone, and towards the inferior fossa of border and the lower angle, where the teres muscles are name; attached; it also arises from the lower side of the spine of the bone, and from the special fascia covering its surface. Its fibres converge to a tendon, which is inserted into the Inser* ° 7 tion. middle impression on the great tuberosity of the humerus, and joins with the tendons of the supraspinatus and teres minor muscles. The greater part of the muscle is subcu- is partly- ~ covered taneous, and the fibres that arise from the spine of the by del- is concealed by the deltoid, and the lower end, by the latis- simus dorsi. The lower border is parallel to the teres minor, other with which it is sometimes united. The muscle lies on the tions. scapula and the humero-scapular articulation, but it is sepa- rated from the last by a bursa. The teres minor is a narrow fleshy slip, which is often Teres inseparably united with the preceding muscle, along whose on back lower border it lies. It arises on the dorsum of the scapula, scapula, from a special surface along the two upper thirds of the in- ferior costa of the bone, and from the investing fascia; and it is inserted by a tendon into the lowest of the three marks inser- on the great tuberosity of the humerus, as well as by fleshy [h°enwlth fibres into the humerus below that spot — about an inch former• altogether. This muscle is partly covered by the deltoid; parts and it rests on the long head of the triceps and the shoulder tt.oxxndDISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 270 joint. Underneath it the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery turns. Teres The teres major muscle is extended from the inferior reaches angle of the scapula to the humerus. Its origin is from the lower rough surface on the dorsum of the scapula near the inferior scapuiaf angle, from the inferior costa of the bone for some distance, to the and from the fascia covering the teres minor. The fibres rus?e" end in a tendon which is inserted into the inner edge of the bicipital groove of the humerus. This muscle forms part of the posterior fold of the axilla, and has the axillary vessels Adjacent and nerves on it near the humerus. At its origin it is ' covered by the latissimus dorsi. The upper border is con- tiguous to the subscapulars muscle, and the lower is received into a hollow formed by the fibres of the latissimus dorsi. Tendon At the humerus the tendon of the muscle is about two burs*, inches wide, and lies behind that of the latissimus; above, the two are separated by a bursa ; but below, they are united, and an expansion is sent from them to the fascia of the arm. A second bursa between the tendon and the bone has been noticed. Two Below the scapula (inferior costa), where the teres muscles between separate from one another, is a triangular interval, which is teres and bounded in front by the shaft of the humerus, and above and the below by the teres muscles. This space is divided into two Anterior tne l°ng nea(* of the triceps. Through the anterior part, and which is of a quadrilateral shape, the posterior circumflex terior. artery and the circumflex nerve pass to the outer side of the limb ; and through the posterior smaller part, the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery turns to its distribution. Dissec- Dissection. — In order that the acromion process may be iga-°f sawn through to expose the supra-spinatus muscle, the liga- theda. ments of the scapula and clavicle, which would be injured Vlc e by such a proceeding, should be next dissected. These liga- ments will be recognised by removing the cellular membrane at the spots specified. One ligament (coraco-clavicular) passes from the coracoid process to the under part of the clavicle. A capsular ligament, connecting the outer end of the clavicle with the acromion, will be seen by taking away and sea- the fibres of the trapezius and deltoid muscles. Another pula. strong band (coraco-acromial) passes transversely between the acromion and the coracoid process; and lastly a smallSCAPULAR LIGAMENTS. fasciculus (posterior proper ligament) will be found over the notch in the superior costa. Ligaments of the Clavicle and Scapula. — The Vnio,n of the cla- clavicle is connected to the scapula by a distinct articulation vicle ?nd x J scapula. with the acromion, and by a strong ligament (coraco-clavi- cular) between it and the coracoid process. The coraco-clavicular ligament consists of two parts, each Coraco- having a different direction and designation. The posterior lar, piece, called conoid from its shape, is fixed by its apex to the conical posterior and inner part of the coracoid process, and by its base to the tubercle on the under surface of the clavicle, at the junction of the outer with the middle third of the bone. The anterior part, trapezoid ligament, is external to the conoid piece: it is connected inferiorly to the inner border and a of the coracoid process, and superiorly to the line on the piece, under surface of the clavicle, which extends outwards from the tubercle before mentioned. The two parts of the liga- ment are united posteriorly, but are separated by an interval in front. Acromioclavicular articulation. — The articular surfaces Joint of the clavicle, and the acromion process of the scapula, acro- are retained in contact by some scattered fibres, which form a kind of capsule for the joint. Some of the fibres are superior stronger above and below, and are thus considered to consti- ferior" tute a superior and an inferior ligament. An inter articular fibro.' fibro-cartilage is generally found between the bones only at the upper part of the joint; but sometimes it forms a com- plete interarticular septum. If the fibro-cartilage is perfect, there are two synovial membranes ; if it is imperfect, there and sy- is only one present in the joint. The joint should be opened sac. to see the cartilage and the synovial membrane. The special ligaments of the scapula are two in number, Liga- anterior and posterior, and extend from one part to another scapula, of the bone. The posterior ligament is a round fasciculus of fibres Poste- across the notch in the upper costa of the scapula. By one n°r and end it is attached to the base of the coracoid process, and by the other to the costa behind the notch. It converts the notch into a foramen, through which the suprascapular nerve passes.272 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. anterior. The anterior ligament is triangular in form, and extends transversely between the acromion and the coracoid process. Externally it is inserted by its point or apex into the tip of the acromion ; and internally, where it is much wider, it is attached to all the outer border of the coracoid process, and extends backwards to the attachment of the capsule of the formed snou^er joint. This ligament overhangs the shoulder joint; of two it usually consists of two thickened bands, anterior and pos- pieces. Jt 7 * terior, with a thin intervening part. turn560" Dissection.—To lay bare the supraspinatus muscle, the the acromion process is to be sawn through, and removed with the outer end of the clavicle. A strong fascia covers the surface of the muscle; this is to be observed, and then taken away. supra- The supraspinatus muscle has the same form as the spinatus •fills the hollow of the bone that it fills. It arises from all the surface hollow name- °^ suPrasP^nal fossa of the scapula, except from the cer- vical part; from the upper side of the spine of the bone ; and from the fascia covering its surface. Its fibres end in a is in- tendon, that crosses over the shoulder joint, and is inserted intohu- into the upper impression on the great tuberosity of the Connec- numerus* The muscle is concealed by the trapezius and the tions. acromion process; and it rests upon the scapula, the shoulder joint, and the suprascapular vessels and nerve. Its tendon joins that of the infraspinatus, at the attachment to the humerus. Dissec- Dissection. — The vessels and nerves on the dorsum of the su°Pnra-f scapula will be traced by separating the supra, and infraspi- vesseis" natus muscles from the bone. In the supraspinal fossa are the suprascapular vessels and nerve, which are to be followed beneath the acromion to the infraspinal fossa ; and entering the infraspinal fossa, beneath the teres minor muscle, is the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery. The anastomosis between the vessels should be carefully cleaned, supra- The suprascapular artery is derived from the subclavian scapular * 1 . i • i i i • i • artery trunk, and is one of the branches into which the thyroid axis subdivides (p. 73.). After a short course in the neck it crosses over the ligament at the superior costa, and enters gives a beneath the supraspinatus muscle. In that position it fur- supra_ spinal^ nishes a supraspinal branch for the supply of the muscle, and ends the bone, and the shoulder joint; and it ends in the infra-273 THE FRONT OF THE ARM. spinal fossa, where it gives offsets to the infraspinatus muscle in infra- and the scapula, and anastomoses with the dorsal branch ofspma us* the subscapular, and with the posterior scapular artery (of the subclavian, p. 73.). The companion vein of the suprascapular artery joins the Vein- external jugular vein. The suprascapular nerve is a branch of the brachial Supra- plexus (p. 76.). When it reaches the costa of the scapula, it nervelar enters the supraspinal fossa beneath the posterior proper cuiar ligament. In the fossa it supplies two branches to the su- likear- praspinatus; and the nerve is then continued, beneath a tery* fibrous band, to the infraspinatus muscle, in which it ends. The nerve gives some articular filaments to the shoulder and ar- , , ~ i i ticular. jomt> and other onsets to the scapula. The dorsal branch of the subscapular artery turns back- Dorsal wards below the inferior costa of the scapula, through the of sub- posterior of the two spaces between the teres muscles. En- artery?r tering the infraspinal fossa, beneath the teres minor, it sup- plies that muscle and the infraspinatus, and anastomoses with the ending of the suprascapular artery. This artery sends a branch along the dorsum of the scapula, between the teres muscles, towards the inferior angle of the bone, where it anastomoses with the posterior scapular artery. Section III. THE FRONT OF THE ARM. Position.—For the dissection of the anterior part of the arm Position the limb should lie flat on the table, with the front upper- most. Dissection. — The skin is to be raised from the front of and inci- the arm and the front of the elbow-joint. To allow of its the118 m reflection, make one incision along the centre of the biceps, skin" as far as two inches below the elbow ; and at its termination, a second cut, half round the fore-arm. The skin should now be stripped from the front and back of the arm, as low as the transverse incision, so that the fat or the superficial fascia, which contains the cutaneous vessels and nerves, may be denuded. Between the skin and the prominence of the olecranon a large bursa may be seen. T274 DISSECTION OF THE ARM. Seek The cutaneous veins may be first sought in the fat. These c!aPierfi vessels are very numerous below the bend of the elbow, and issue from beneath the integument. One in the centre of the fore-arm is the median vein, which bifurcates rather below the elbow. External to this is a small vein (radial); and internal to it are the anterior and posterior ulnar veins, coming from the front and back of the fore-arm. In the arm these veins are united into two ; one (basilic) is to be followed along the inner border of the biceps, and the other (cephalic) along the outer side of that muscle. Trace The cutaneous nerves may next be traced out. On the cutane- . . • in ©us outer side of the arm, about its middle, are the external ofouter cutaneous branches (two in number) of the musculo-spiral; and in the outer bicipital groove, in front of the elbow or rather below it, is the cutaneous part of the musculo- and cutaneous nerve. On the inner part of the limb the nerves si'deof to the surface are more numerous. Taking the basilic vein limb. as a guide, the internal cutaneous nerve of the fore-arm will be found by its side, about the middle of the arm ; and rather external to* this nerve is a small cutaneous offset from it, which pierces the fascia higher up. Behind the internal cutaneous, in the lower third of the arm, is the small nerve of Wrisberg; and in the upper third are the small nerves that have been already met with in the dissection of the axilla, viz. the intercosto-humeral, and the internal cutaneous of the musculo-spiral. super- The superficial fascia forms a continuous investment for fiuai fat. ^e iimk5 but it is thicker in front of the elbow than in the other parts of the arm. In that spot it may be divided into two layers, which enclose the superficial vessels and lym- phatics. Thecu. Cutaneous Veins. — The position and the connections of veins are the superficial veins in front of the elbow are to be atten- tively noted by the dissector, because the operation of vene- section is practised in them, median The median vein of the fore-arm divides into two branches, vein 5 internal and external, rather below the bend of the elbow ; and at its point of division it is joined by an offset from a divides deep vein. The internal branch (median basilic) crosses to branch-0 the inner border of the biceps, and unites with the ulnar veins to form the basilic vein of the inner side of the arm.CUTANEOUS VEINS OF THE ARM. 275 T 2 The external branch (median cephalic) is usually longer than the other, and by its union with the radial vein gives rise to the cephalic vein of the arm. Branches. — The median cephalic vein is directed obliquely Position outwards, and lies over the hollow between the biceps and nections the outer mass of muscles of the fore-arm. Beneath it is dian ce- mi • • i phalic, the musculo-cutaneous nerve. This vein is altogether re- moved from the brachial artery, and is generally smaller than the median basilic vein. If opened with a lancet, it does not often yield much blood, in consequence of its being removed from the influence of external pressure by its posi- tion in a hollow between muscles. The median basilic vein and of is usually more horizontal in direction than the preceding, dian ba- and crosses the brachial artery as it bends to the inner side vein, of the limb. It is larger than the corresponding vein of the outer side of the arm, and is firmly supported by the fascia beneath. Branches of the internal cutaneous nerve lie beneath it, and some small twigs of the same nerve are generally placed over it. Only the aponeurosis of the arm, strengthened by fibres from the tendon of the biceps, inter- venes between the vein and the brachial vessels. The median basilic is the vein on which the operation of Ven.e- 1 section bloodletting is commonly practised, by reason of its size and superficial position, and the facility with which it may be h compressed: but from the close proximity of the vein to the brachial vessels, the spot chosen for the venesection should not be immediately over the trunk of the artery. The basilic vein, commencing near the inner condyle of Basilic . _ J vein on the humerus in the manner before said, ascends near the inner side of inner border of the biceps muscle to the middle of the arm, the arm. where it passes beneath the deep fascia, and is continuous with the axillary vein. In this course it lies over, or to the inner side of the brachial artery. The cephalic vein is chiefly derived from the external Cephalic vein at branch of the median, for the radial vein is oftentimes very outer side of small. It is continued to the shoulder along the outer side the arm. of the biceps, and sinks between the deltoid and pectoral muscles, near the clavicle, to open into the axillary vein. The superficial lymphatics of the arm lie for the most |^r" part along the basilic vein, and enter into the glands of the lympha- n tlCS' axilla. A few lymphatics accompany the cephalic vein, andDISSECTION OF THE AKM. 276 passing between the pectoral and deltoid muscles, end as the others in the axillary glands. A lymphatic gland is com- monly found as low in the limb as the elbow, where it lies in front of the inner condyle of the humerus. The su- Cutaneous Nerves. — The superficial nerves of the arm perficial # 1 > arede aPPear on *ne mner and outer sides, and spread so as to rived cover the circumference of the limb. All with one exception from m m . L (intercosto-humeral) are derived from the brachial plexus, brachial plexus, except either as distinct branches, or as offsets of other nerves. one. On the outer side of the limb are branches of the musculo- spinal and musculocutaneous nerves; on the inner side are two internal cutaneous nerves (large and small), and a third internal cutaneous from the musculo-spiral, together with the intercosto-humeral nerve. ternafX" External cutaneous Nerves. — The external cutaneous cuta- branches of the musculo-spiral nerve are two in number, and ap- neous ... . of mus- pear at the outer side of the limb in the spot before mentioned. spiral, The upper one turns forwards with the cephalic vein, and reaches to the front of the elbow, supplying the anterior part of the arm. The lower pierces the fascia somewhat farther down, viz. about the middle of the outer surface of the arm, and after supplying some cutaneous filaments to that part of the limb, is continued to the fore-arm. and one The cutaneous part of the musculo-cutaneous nerve pierces the of mus. . . cuio-cu- fascia in front of the elbow, and at the outer side of the tendon of taneous. ^e biceps muscle. It lies beneath the median cephalic vein, and divides into branches for the fore-arm. Two in- Internal cutaneous Nerves.—The larger internal cutaneous ternal . . ° cuta- nerve perforates the fascia m two parts, or as one trunk that brachial divides almost directly into two. The external branch lies be- piexus. nea^ tne median basilic vein, and is directed to the front of the Large fQre -arm: but the internal branch winds to the back of the fore- arm, over the prominence of the inner condyle of the humerus. A cutaneous offset of this nerve pierces the fascia near the axilla, and reaches as far, or nearly as far as the elbow : it supplies the integuments over the inner part of the biceps muscle. and^ Xhe small internal cutaneous nerve (Wrisberg) appears below the preceding, and extends to the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle of the humerus, where it ends in filaments over the back of the olecranon. The nerve gives offsets to the posterior surface of the lower third of the arm, and joins, above the elbow, the inner division of the larger internal cutaneous nerve. Cuta- The internal cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve, after neous of . , " . * , , * musculo- it becomes subcutaneous (in the upper third), winds to the back 01 spiral. ^e arm^ an(j extends nearly as far as the olecranon.APONEUROSIS OF THE ARM. 277 The inter cosio - humeral branch of the second intercostal nerve inter- (p. 247.) perforates the fascia near the axilla, and furnishes fila- humeral, merits to the inner side and the posterior surface of the arm, in the upper half. But the size, and even the distribution of the nerve, will depend upon the development and extent of the small internal cutaneous, and the offset of the musculo-spiral nerve. The aponeurosis of the arm is a white shining membrane ^ that envelops the limb, and sends inwards processes between the arm the muscles. Over the biceps muscle it is thinner than elsewhere. At certain points it receives accessory fibres from the subjacent tendons: — thus in front of the elbow there is an offset from the tendon of the biceps, and near the axilla the tendons of the pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, and teres, send prolongations to the fascia. At the upper part of the limb the fascia is continuous with that of the axilla, and is prolonged over the deltoid and pectoral muscles to the scapula and the clavicle. Inferiorly it is continued to forms the fore-arm, and is connected to the prominences of bone muscu- around the elbow joint, especially to the condyloid ridges of septa, the humerus. Its attachments to those lines of the humerus give rise to the two intermuscular septa of the arm. Directions.—As the back of the arm will not be first dis- Direc- sected, the skin may be replaced on it until the front has be od-° been examined. And to keep in place the vessels and nerves served* at the upper part of the limb, they should be tied together with string, as nearly as may be in their natural position, and then fastened to the coracoid process. Position. — The limb is still to lie on the back, but the Position upper part is to be raised by means of a small block beneath the scapula, and this bone is to be fixed in such a position as to render tense the muscles. The inner surface of the arm is to be placed towards the dissector. Dissection. — The aponeurosis is to be reflected from the Dissec- front of the arm by an incision along the centre, like that muscles through the integuments; and it is to be removed, on the seis.ves" outer side, as far as the line of the humerus leading to the outer condyle, but on the inner side, rather farther back than the corresponding line, so as to bare part of the triceps muscle. In raising the fascia the knife must be carried in the direction of the fibres of the biceps muscle, and care must be taken not to displace the brachial artery and the nerves that are wTith it.DISSECTION OF THE ARM. 278 Position. Muscles on the Front of the Arm.—The most promi- muscies nent muscle along the centre of the arm is the biceps; and arm. the one along its inner side, reaching about half way down, is the coraco-brachialis. The brachialis anticus muscle is beneath the biceps. Some muscles of the fore-arm are con- nected to the outer and inner condyles of the humerus, as well as to the line above the outer condyle. Biceps The biceps muscle forms the prominence observable on short the front of the arm. It is wider at the middle than at head!°ng either end, and the upper part of the muscle consists of two pieces or heads, of different lengths, which are attached to Origin the scapula. The short head is tendinous, and arises from from the r 7 scapula, the apex of the coracoid process in common with the coraco- brachialis muscle; and the long head, which is also tendi- nous, is attached to the upper part of the glenoid cavity of the scapula, within the capsule of the shoulder joint. Mus- cular fibres spring from each head of origin, and are blended, about the middle of the arm, in one fleshy mass or belly, insertion which is somewhat flattened from before back, and is in- dius. serted by a tendon into the radius behind the tubercle. Parts Xhe muscle is superficial except at the extremities: at its covering \ A upper part the biceps is concealed by the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles; and at the lower part the tendon dips into the hollow in front of the elbow, but it previously gives and he- an offset to the fascia of the arm. Beneath the biceps are nea it. ^e bracnia]js anticus muscle, the musculo-cutaneous nerve, inner and the upper part of the humerus. The inner border is the gu7dertoS guide to the brachial artery, below the middle of the hu- tSry?r" merus, but the coraco-brachialis muscle intervenes between it and the vessel above that spot. The connection of the long head of the biceps writh the shoulder joint, and the insertion of the muscle into the radius will be afterwards dissected. Coraco- The coraco-brachialis is a muscle of.a roundish form, lis is and is named from its bony attachments. Its origin is fleshy named n ' ,. trom the from the tip of the coracoid process, and from the tendinous a'tach- ments. short head of the biceps. Its fibres end below in a tendon which is inserted into a a-idge, on the inner side of the hu- merus, that separates the anterior and posterior surfaces, and is about opposite the attachment of the deltoid muscle on the outer aspect; from its tendon of insertion an aponeurotic slip Connec. is continued to the head of the humerus. Part of the muscle sur- is beneath the pectoralis major, and forms a prominence inTHE BRACHIAL ARTERY. 279 the axilla; but the rest is superficial, except at the inser- round- tion, where it is covered by the brachial vessels and the me- parts, dian nerve. Perforating it is the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Along the inner border is the large artery of the limb with its nerves. The coraco-brachialis conceals the subscapular muscle, the anterior circumflex artery, and the tendons of the latissimus and teres. The brachial artery is a continuation of the axillary Brachial trunk, and supplies vessels to the upper limb. It begins at extends the lower border of the teres major muscle, and ends rather below the bend of the elbow, or " opposite the neck of the radius," in branches (radial and ulnar) for the fore-arm. In the upper part of its extent the vessel is internal to the Position humerus, but afterwards it is in front of that bone ; and its and si.' situation is indicated, on the surface, by the depression along in the the inner border of the biceps and coraco-brachialis muscles. In its course the brachial artery is very superficial; for it Connec- is covered only by the integuments and the deep fascia, ex- with cept at the bend of the elbow, where it is crossed, in addi- fnddes tion, by the median basilic vein and the prolongation from fascUB' the tendon of the biceps. To the outer side of the vessel are the coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles, the latter some- what overlapping it in the lower part of the arm. Poste- riorly, the artery has the following muscular connections: whilst it is inside the humerus it is placed over the long head of the triceps, and on the inner head of the same muscle ; but when the vessel has turned to the front of the bone, it lies on the insertion of the coraco-brachialis and on the brachialis anticus. Vence comites lie on the sides of the artery, encircling it with with branches; and the basilic vein is near the line of the artery in the lower half of the arm, but separated from it by the fascia. The nerves in relation with the artery are the and with following : — The internal cutaneous is in contact with the 5 vessel until it has perforated the fascia about the middle of the arm. The ulnar nerve lies to the inner side as far as the insertion of the coraco-brachialis muscle ; and the mus- culo-spiral is behind the artery for a'distance of about two inches. The median nerve is close to the vessel in all its course, but alters its position in this way : — as low as the T 4 nerves.280 DISSECTION OF THE ARM. insertion of the coraco-brachialis the nerve is on the outer side, but it then crosses obliquely either over or under the artery, and is placed internal to the vessel about two inches above the elbow joint, its Branches spring both externally and internally from the are, brachial artery. Those on the outer side are muscular, and muscu- supply the coraco-brachialis and biceps ; those on the inner side are named superior and inferior profunda, anastomotic, and nutritious arteries, superior a. The superior profunda branch is larger than the others, and profun- ]eaves the artery near the lower border of the tendon of the teres major; it winds backwards with the musculo-spiral nerve to the triceps muscle, and will be dissected with the back of the arm. inferior b. The inferior profunda branch arises opposite the coraco- funda, brachialis muscle, and accompanies the ulnar nerve to the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle of the humerus. In the spot mentioned, it anastomoses with the posterior ulnar recur- rent and anastomotic branches, and supplies the triceps. It often arises in common with the superior profunda artery, nutrient c. A nutritious artery is given off near the preceding branch, bone^ and enters the nutrient canal about the middle of the humerus ; it is distributed to the osseous substance, and to the membrane lining the medullary canal, and anas- d. The anastomotic branch arises from one to two inches above tomotic. ^e elbow, and its course is transversely inwards, through the inter- muscular septum, to the hollow between the olecranon and the inner condyle of the humerus. Here the artery inosculates with the inferior profunda and the posterior ulnar recurrent branch, and gives some branches to the triceps muscle : one of the muscular offsets forms an arch across the back of the humerus, with a branch of the superior profunda, near the articulation of the elbow. The anastomotic branch likewise sends an offset in front of the elbow joint, which joins with the anterior ulnar recurrent, and supplies the pronator teres muscle. Veins The brachial veins are placed along the artery, one on the m each side, and have branches of communication across that axillary. veggej . receive contributing veins, which correspond to the branches of the arteries. Superiorly they join the ax- illary vein near the subscapular muscle. Devia- Peculiarities of the artery in position. — The brachial trunk may leave the inner border of the biceps in the lower half of the arm, and course along the inner intermuscular septum, with the median nerve, to the inner condyle of the humerus. At this spot the tions in position281 NERVES OF THE ARM. vessel is directed inwards, to its usual position in front of the elbow, either through or beneath the fibres of the pronator teres. In this unusual course the artery is often found to lie behind a projecting bony point on the humerus. In the division. — Occasionally the artery is split for a short dis- in place tance, like the main vessel in the lower limb. And the terminal Sion. bifurcation of the vessel may be short of the ordinary spot, or be- yond it: — the former condition is much the most frequent; for only in one instance did Mr. Quain find the vessel carried farther into the limb before it bifurcated, and in that example the point of division was " between two and three inches " beyond the elbow joint. In the origin of the arteries of the fore-arm. — The arteries of in origin the fore-arm, viz. radial and ulnar, or the] interosseous, may be arteries carried backwards, along the parent trunk, to any point between a[m.re~ the axilla and the common source at the elbow; but this unusual origin is not seated, with equal frequency, on every part of the humeral trunk, for it is most common in the upper third, and least frequent in the middle third, where a ligature may be applied. When one of the vessels referred to thus deviates from the ordinary condition, there would be two large arteries in the arm in the place of one; and these commonly lie close together, though, sometimes, one of them, viz. the trunk that is to supply the front of the fore- arm and the palm of the hand, will lie close to the intermuscular septum, with the median nerve, like the trunk of the brachial artery. In some few cases the brachial artery has been observed to Unusual divide into three instead of two branches (radial, ulnar, and inter- ?ng.nch~ osseous) at'some little distance above the elbow, so that three trunks would be present in a given part of the arm. In vasa aherrantia.— Sometimes there are occasional long slender invasa * vessels, vasa aberrantia, which connect the brachial or the axillary ?£|riau" trunk with one of the arteries of the fore-arm, or with a branch of them. These accessory vessels very rarely end in the ulnar artery. In muscular covering. — In some bodies the humeral artery is in mus- covered by an additional slip of origin of the biceps muscle. And Bering0.0" sometimes a slip of the brachialis anticus may conceal, in cases of high origin of the radial, the remainder of the arterial trunk that continues to the fore-arm. Nerves of the Arm.—The nerves on the front of the Nerves arm are derived from the terminal cords of the brachial of arm. plexus. Few of them furnish offsets to the arm, but they are continued, for the most part without branching, to the fore-arm and the hand. The cutaneous branches of some of them have been referred to (p. 276.).DISSECTION OF THE ABM. 282 Median The median nerve arises from the brachial plexus by two nerve in J the arm roots, one from the outer, and the other from the inner cord is with thear. of the nerves (p. 259.) ; its destination is the palm of the tery hand, and it accompanies the brachial artery to the fore-arm. Commencing on the outer side of the artery, the nerve crosses over or under the vessel about the middle of the arm, has not and is found on the inner side a little above the elbow. It any branch does not give any branch in the arm, but there may be a arm. fasciculus connecting it with the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Its connections with muscles are the same as those of the artery. ulnar The ulnar nerve is derived from the inner cord of the changes brachial plexus, and in its progress to the inner side of the tion. hand, it courses along the inner part of the arm, and enters the fore-arm at the inner side of the elbow joint. At first the nerve lies close to the inner side of the axillary, and of the brachial artery as far as the insertion of the coraco- brachial ; but in the remainder of the arm it leaves the vessel, and is directed inwards through the inner inter- muscular septum, and descends, almost surrounded by the muscular fibres of the triceps, to the interval between the Ts with- olecranon and the inner condyle. There is not any branch branch glven from this nerve till it reaches the elbow joint, but a as the branch to the triceps muscle, from the musculo-spiral, accom- eibow. panies it in the lower part of its course, internal The internal cutaneous is a tegumentary nerve of the fore- noons arm, to which it is prolonged like the others. Part of the beneath nerve has been before seen, and only that small portion fascia, which is beneath the fascia of the limb, remains to be studied in the arm. Arising from the inner cord of the plexus, it is at first internal, and then becomes superficial to the humeral artery as far as the middle of the arm, where it divides into two branches that perforate the investing fascia (p. 276.). Near the axilla it furnishes a small cutaneous offset to the integuments of the arm, which pierces the fascia higher than the trunk of the nerve. Nerve of ^ ne small internal cutaneous nerve (nerve of Wrisberg *) is distributed in the part of the arm now dissected. It * An account of this nerve is given by Klint. See a paper in Lud wig's Scriptores Nevrologici Minores, torn. iii. " De Nervis Brachii."283 BRACHIALIS ANTICUS. arises with the preceding, and is concealed at first by the axillary vein. It is directed inwards, either beneath or through the vein, and joins with the intercosto-humeral nerve. Afterwards it lies along the inner part of the arm, b^eath as far as the middle, where it perforates the fascia to end in fascia, the integument (p. 276.). The musculo-cutaneous nerve (nerv. perforans, Casserii) Muscu- is so named from supplying both muscles and integument: neous it ends on the surface of the fore-arm, and supplies offsets to the arm. the flexors of the elbow joint whilst it is passing through the upper arm. It leaves the outer cord of the brachial plexus opposite the lower border of the pectoralis minor, and perforates directly the coraco-brachialis; it is then directed obliquely to the outer side of the arm, between the biceps and brachialis anticus muscles. Near the elbow, its continuation has been seen to become a cutaneous nerve of the fore-arm. The nerve furnishes branches to the muscles in front of its mus- cular the humerus, viz. to the coraco-brachialis, as it passes branch- ' . es. through the fibres, and to the biceps and brachialis anticus muscles, where it lies between them. Before perforating the coraco-brachialis, the nerve gives a separate twig to that muscle and the short head of the biceps; and sometimes there is a large branch of communication with the median nerve after it has pierced the muscle. Dissection. — The brachialis anticus muscle will be brought Dissec- into view by cutting through the tendon of the biceps near U°n' the elbow, and turning upwards this muscle. The cellular membrane should be taken from the surface, and the lateral extent of the muscle defined; so as to show that it reaches the intermuscular septum largely on the inner side, but only for a short distance, above, on the outer side. The brachialis anticus covers the elbow joint, and the Brachia. lower half of the front of the humerus. It arises from all cus?ntl" that surface of the bone below the insertion of the deltoid 0risin* muscle, and from the intermuscular septa on the sides, though in very unequal proportions. The fleshy fibres converge to a tendon, which is inserted into the impression on the ulna inser- before the coronoid process. This muscle is concealed by the biceps, by the brachial artery, and by the median, and the musculo-cutaneous and musculo-spiral nerves; and it284 DISSECTION OF THE ARM. Position lies on the humerus and the articulation of the elbow. Its elbow16 origin embraces by two parts the attachment of the deltoid, J01a ' and its insertion is placed between two corresponding fleshy and con- pieces of the flexor profundus digitorum. The inner border nec ions. toucnes t^e intermuscular septum in all its length; but the outer border is in contact with the septum, only above, for about one inch and a half, and is separated from it lower down by two muscles of the fore-arm (supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior), which extend upwards on the humerus, The tendon of insertion will be seen in the dissection of the fore-arm. BACK OF THE ARM. Position Position. — During the examination of the back of the part. arm the limb is to be turned over, and raised into a semi- flexed position by means of a block of moderate thickness beneath the elbow. The scapula is to be drawn away, till it is nearly in a line with the humerus, so as to tighten the muscular fibres; and it is then to be fastened with hooks in that position. How to Dissection. — On the back of the arm there is only one triceps.6 muscle, the triceps, with a nerve and an artery beneath it. The muscle will be readily laid bare, for it is covered only by fascia—the skin having been before reflected, if the directions before given have been followed by the dissector. To take away the fascia, an incision is to be carried along the limb as far as to rather below the elbow; and in reflect- ing it the sub-fascial cellular tissue should be removed at the same time. ' Triceps The triceps muscle is divided superiorly into three parts ; muscle _ i i t r» • • • • has and, as a consequence, three heads oi origin to it,—inner, heads, outer, and middle, have been described. Two of these are attached to the humerus, and one to the scapula. Origin The middle piece, or head, is the longest, and has a ten- die head, dinous origin, about an inch wide, from the inferior costa of the scapula, close to the glenoid cavity, where it is con- head ter necte^ w*tn the capsule of the shoulder joint. The external head reaches from the outer condyle of the humerus, to the insertion of the teres minor muscle, and is attached to the outer part of the posterior surface of that bone, as well and of as to the intermuscular-septum of the same side. Them-THE TE1CEPS MUSCLE. 285 ternal head extends from the inner condyle to the insertion inner of the teres major into the bicipital groove, and arises from the contiguous intermuscular septum, and the inner part of the posterior aspect of the bone. From these heads of origin the fibres are directed to a common tendon of insertion, at inser- ; tion. the lower part, with different degrees of inclination: those of mreCm the middle head are directed vertically, but those of the inner Q°fhe and outer heads pass inwards or downwards to the sides and fibres' the under part of the tendon. The muscle is inserted in- feriorly into the end of the olecranon process of the ulna, and gives an expansion to the aponeurosis of the fore-arm: between the tip of the olecranon and the tendon is a small bursa. The triceps is superficial, except at the upper part, where connec- it is overlapped by the deltoid muscle. It lies on the hu- the ^ merus, and conceals the musculo-spiral nerve, the superior profunda vessels, and the articulation of the elbow. On the sides the muscle is united to the intermuscular septa, and the lower fibres of the outer head are continuous with the anconeus —one of the muscles of the fore-arm. Suh-anconeus muscle. — This is a thin fleshy stratum sub- beneath the triceps near the elbow, which will be dissected slip, by cutting through that muscle at the lower part. It con- sists of two fasciculi, inner and outer: these are attached above the fossa for the olecranon, and end in the capsule of the joint. A corresponding muscle is placed beneath the extensor of the knee-joint. The intermuscular septa are processes of fibrous struc- Two in- . . . termus- ture, continuous with the investing aponeurosis 01 the arm, cuiar which are fixed to the ridges leading to the condyles of the humerus: they intervene between the muscles on the front attached and back of the lower half of the arm, and give attachment ofhu-° to the fleshy fibres. The internal is the strongest, and An irmer reaches as high as the coraco-brachialis muscle, from which and it receives some tendinous fibres: the brachialis anticus is attached to it in front, and the triceps behind; and the ulnar nerve and the inferior profunda and anastomotic arteries pierce it. The external septum is thinner; behind it is the outer, triceps; and in front of it are the brachialis anticus, and the muscles of the fore-arm that arise above the condyle of the humerus: it is pierced by the musculo-spiral nerve.DISSECTION OF THE ARM. 286 Dissec- Dissection. — To follow now the superior profunda artery tion of . . vessels and the musculo-spiral nerve, the middle head of the triceps nerve, should be cut across over them, and any cellular membrane that may obscure their position should be removed. To trace out the branches of the nerve and artery, that descend to the olecranon and the anconeus muscle, the triceps is to be divided in its whole length, and along the line of union of the outer with the middle head. The trunks of the vessel and nerve are to be afterwards followed beneath the outer head of the triceps to the front of the humerus. ■ superior The superior profunda branch of the brachial artery artery (p. 280.) is the chief vessel for the supply of the triceps muscle. Accompanying the musculo-spiral nerve, it turns lies be- to the back of the humerus in the interval between the hume- inner and outer heads of the triceps. In this position the rus* artery supplies large muscular branches, and is then con- tinued onwards beneath the external head of the triceps to the outer part of the arm, where it divides into its terminal twigs :—one of these courses on the nerve to the front of the elbow joint, anastomosing with the recurrent radial artery; whilst others continue to the elbow along the intermuscular septum, and join the interosseous recurrent artery. Supplies Branches. — The muscular offsets of the vessel descend to and6^' the olecranon, supplying the triceps, and communicating circila with the other branches of the brachial artery, viz. inferior joint. profunda and anastomotic (p. 280.), as well as with the re- current branches of the arteries of the fore-arm. One offset deserves especial notice; it accompanies a distinct branch of the musculo-spiral nerve, and ends in the anconeus muscle in the interval between the olecranon and the outer condyle of the humerus. Mus- The musculo-spiral nerve arises from the posterior cord spiral of the brachial plexus, of which it is the largest trunk, and -winds IS continued along the back, and the outer part of the limb humerus to the hand. In the arm the nerve is first placed behind, and close to the axillary and brachial arteries; but it soon leaves the last vessel, and winds with the profunda artery, from the inner to the outer part of the arm, beneath the to outer triceps muscle. At the outer aspect of the limb it is con- side of . * ... the arm. tinued between the brachialis anticus and supinator longus muscles to the external condyle of the humerus, in front of287 SHOULDER JOINT. which it divides into the radial and posterior interosseous nerves. In this extent the nerve gives muscular branches, and cutaneous nerves to both the inner and outer parts of Branch- A es. the arm. a. The internal cutaneous branch of the arm is of small size, and internal arises in the axillary space, in common with the branch to the inner neous head of the triceps •; it is directed across the posterior boundary of branch* the axillary space to the inner side of the arm, where it becomes cutaneous in the upper third, and is distributed as before said (p. 276.). b. The muscular branches to the triceps are numerous, and sup- Branch- ply all the three heads. One slender offset, that is distributed to triceps!6 the inner head, arises in common with the preceding cutaneous branch, and lies close to the ulnar nerve, till it enters the muscu- lar fibres at the lower third of the arm. And a long slender branch, that appears as if it ended in the triceps, can be followed down- wards to the anconeus muscle. On the outer part of the limb brachi- the musculo-spiral nerve supplies the brachialis anticus, and two muscles muscles of the fore-arm—supinator longus and extensor carpi ^mDre" radialis longior. c. The external cutaneous branches are two in number : they Two perforate the outer head of the triceps at its attachment to the cute.nal humerus, and are distributed in the integument of the arm and neous- fore-arm (p. 276.). Dissection. — Now the dissection of the arm has been Dissec- completed as far as the elbow, it will be advisable to examine the*" °f next the shoulder joint. For this purpose the tendons of the }iS]der surrounding muscles, viz. those of the subscapularis, supra and infra spinatus, and teres minor, must be detached from the joint. On the removal of the cellular membrane and some loose fibrous tissue, the articular capsule, with a thick- ened band on the fore part, will be ready prepared. Shoulder Joint. — The joint is formed between the head shoulder of the humerus and the glenoid fossa of the scapula, these how ' parts being enclosed in a fibrous capsule. This articulation has great extent of movement; and the bones entering into its formation are but slightly bound together by ligamentous bands, for, on the removal of the muscles, the articular sur- face of the humerus drops from the other with great readi- ness. A ligamentous band (glenoid ligament) deepens the shallow cavity for the reception of the large head of the humerus.DISSECTION OF THE ARM. 288 Capsular The capsular ligament surrounds the articular ends of the ment. bones, and receives some fibres from the contiguous tendons. At the upper part it is fixed around the neck of the scapula, where it is connected with the middle head of the triceps. Attach- At the lower part the ligament is attached to the humerus ments. 1 0 close to the hemispherical articular surface; and its conti- nuity is interrupted between the tuberosities of the bone by the tendon of the biceps muscle. Below the coracoid pro- cess, and on the inner side, there is an aperture in the capsule through which the synovial membrane of the joint Muscles projects beneath the tendon of the subscapularis. The fol- around. . , . lowing muscles surround the articulation: — superiorly are the tendons of the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor; inferiorly, the capsule is only partly covered by the subscapularis: and internally, it is well supported by the same muscle. Acces. On the front of the capsule is a thickish band of fibres,— bS. the coraco-liumeral or accessory ligament, which starts from the base of the caracoid process of the scapula, and ends in the great tuberosity of the humerus. Dissec- Dissection. — The articulation is to be opened by cutting through the capsule near the scapula. When this has been done, the attachment of the capsule to the bones, the glenoid ligament, and the tendon of the biceps will be fully seen. Tendon The tendon of the biceps muscle arches over the head of bleeps, the humerus, and serves the purpose of a ligament in re- straining the upward movements of that bone. It is attached to the upper part of the glenoid fossa of the scapula, and is connected on each side with the glenoid ligament. As it is directed outwards, it becomes round, and is received into the groove between the tuberosities of the humerus, in which it is confined by a prolongation from the tendon of the pecto- ralis major muscle. Glenoid The glenoid ligament is a firm, fibrous band, that surrounds ment. the fossa of the same name, deepening it for the reception of the head of the humerus. It is about two lines high, and is connected in part with the sides of the tendon of the biceps; but some of its fibres are fixed separately to the edge of the glenoid fossa. Synovial The synovial membrane lines the articular surface of the brane. capsule, and is continued along it from the one bone to the289 FRONT OF THE FORE-ARM. other. At the aperture in the capsule, on the inner side of the joint, a prolongation is continued beneath the subscapu- laris muscle. The membrane is further reflected around the tendon of the biceps, and lines the bicipital groove of the humerus. Section IV. THE FRONT OF THE FORE-ARM. Position. — The limb is to be placed with the palm of the pf°t^tiotl hand uppermost; and the marking of the surface, and the limb, projections of bone, are first to be noted. Surface-marking. — On the anterior aspect of the fore- ^j£aece arm are two depressions, corresponding to the position of the vesseis. The external one is placed over the radial artery, and inclines towards the middle of the fore-arm as it ap- proaches the elbow. The internal one is evident only beyond the middle of the fore-arm, and points out the part of the ulnar artery that is uncovered by muscle. The bones of the fore-arm (radius and ulna) are sufficiently near the surface to be traced in their whole length: each ends below in a point,—the styloid process, and that of the radius is the lowest. The articulation of the wrist is about an inch above the transverse marking that separates the fore-arm from the hand. In the palm of the hand two lateral projections are seen ; Surface the external of these is formed by the muscles of the thumb, °f the J hand. and the internal one by the muscles of the little finger. Between those projections is a hollow, which is pointed towards the wrist. The superficial palmar arch of arteries extends forwards a little way into the hollow, and its posi- tion may be marked by a line drawn across the palm from the root of the thumb, when that digit is placed at a right angle to the hand. Two transverse lines are seen in the palm, but neither reaches completely across it; the anterior one serves to direct to the line of the articulations between the metacarpus and the phalanges, and it is about a quarter of an inch behind those joints, when the fingers are extended, except in the case of the fore-finger. Transverse lines are seen on both aspects of the joints of Surface uDISSECTION OF THE FORE-ARM. 290 of the the thumb and the fingers. The lines on the palmar surface of the fingers may be used to point out the articulations of the phalanges. Thus the joint between the metacarpal phalanx and the next will be found about a line in front of the chief of the transverse grooves, that appear about the middle (in length) of the finger ; whilst the articulation between the two last phalanges is situate about a line in front of the single groove, that is nearer the tip of the finger. Dissec- Dissection. — With the position of the limb still the same, remove an incision is to be carried through the skin along the the skin* middle of the front of the fore-arm, as far as an inch beyond the wrist; and at its termination a second transverse one is to be united with it. The skin is next to be reflected care- fully from the front and the back of the fore-arm, without injury to the numerous superficial vessels and nerves that are beneath; and it should also be taken from the back of the hand, by prolonging the ends of the transverse cut along the margins of the hand to a little beyond the knuckles. One finger should have the integument removed from it, in order that the nerves may be traced to the end. seek the The superficial vessels and nerves can now be traced in Salves- the fat. They have the following position: — Along the nerves* inner side of the fore-arm are the ulnar veins, with the con- mfiont, ^inuation of the internal cutaneous nerve; and near the wrist there is occasionally a small offset from the ulnar nerve. On the outer side, are the radial vein and the super- ficial part of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Close to the hand, in the middle of the fore-arm, is the small palmar branch of the median nerve, behind. At the back of the fore-arm the external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve is to be traced, and offsets are to be followed to this aspect from the nerves in front. On the posterior part of the hand is an arch of superficial veins; and the radial nerve, and a branch of the ulnar nerve, are to be found on the back of the hand, as they run to the fingers, — one along the outer, the other along the inner border of the hand. subcu- Cutaneous Veins. — The superficial veins of the fore-arm veins of are named median, radial, and ulnar, from their position in arm are the limb. They commence in the hand, chiefly at the dorsal291 u 2 CUTANEOUS NERVES OF THE FORE-ARM. aspect, where they form an arch, and are continued along the fore-arm to end in the basilic and cephalic veins of the arm. Superficial arch. — This arch on the back of the hand is more or Arch on less perfect, and receives the posterior or superficial digital veins, hand. At the sides the arch terminates in the radial and ulnar veins of the fore-arm. The radial vein begins in the outer part of the arch before men- radial; tioned, and in some small radicles from the back of the thumb. It is then continued along the fore-arm, at first behind, and then on the outer border, as far as the elbow, where it gives rise to the cephalic vein by its union with the outer branch of the median vein. The ulnar veins are anterior and posterior, and occupy the front ulnar; and the back of the fore-arm. The anterior arises near the wrist, anterior' by the junction of small roots from the hand and fore-arm, and runs on the inner part of the fore-arm to the elbow ; here it unites with the inner branch of the median, and forms the basilic vein. The posterior ulnar vein is situate on the back of the limb. It an<? Pos- . tenor; commences, at the hand, by the union of a large branch, " vena salvatella," from the back of the little finger, with the offset of the venous arch ; it is then continued along the back of the fore-arm, nearly to the elbow, and bends forwards to open into the anterior ulnar vein. The median vein commences on the front of the arm, near the median, wrist, by small branches which are derived from the palmar surface of the hand, and is directed along the centre of the fore- arm nearly to the elbow. Here the vein divides into external and internal branches (median basilic and median cephalic), which unite, as before seen (p. 274.) with the radial and ulnar veins. At its point of bifurcation the median receives a communicating branch from a vein accompanying the artery beneath the fascia. Cutaneous Nerves. — In the fore-arm the superficial super- • ficial nerves are continued from those of the arm, viz. on the nerves of n -i fore-arm inner part, from the large internal cutaneous nerve; and on the outer part, from the two external cutaneous nerves de- rived from the musculo-spiral and the musculo-cutaneous. Occasionally there is a small offset of the ulnar nerve in the fore-arm. On the back of the hand is the termination of the and back of hand radial nerve, together with a branch of the ulnar nerve. are The internal cutaneous nerve was seen in a previous dissection internal (p. 276.) to be divided into two parts. The anterior branch neous; extends on the front of the fore-arm as far as the wrist, and sup- plies the integument on the inner half of the anterior surface,292 DISSECTION OF THE FORE-ARM. Near the wrist it communicates sometimes with a cutaneous offset from the ulnar nerve. The posterior branch continues along the back of the fore-arm (ulnar side) to rather below the middle, musculo The cutaneous part of the musculo-cutaneous nerve is continued temai from the arm, and courses along the radial border of the fore-arm neous; as far as the ball of the thumb, on which it terminates in cuta- neous offsets. Near the wrist the nerve is placed over the radial artery, and some twigs pierce the fascia to ramify on the vessel. A little above the middle of the fore-arm the nerve gives backwards, to the integument on the posterior aspect, a branch that reaches nearly to the wrist, and communicates with the radial nerve as well as with the following cutaneous nerve, external The external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve, after ousot passing the elbow, turns to the posterior aspect of the fore-arm, io"spirai. an(^ reaches as far as the wrist. Near its termination it joins the preceding cutaneous nerve. Ending The radial nerve is distributed to the integument of the back of radial the hand, and to that of the thumb and the next two fingers. It neive becomes cutaneous at the outer border of the fore-arm in the lower third, and after giving backwards some filaments to the posterior aspect of the limb, divides into two branches : — by exter- a. One (external) is joined by the musculo-cutaneous nerve, internal and is distributed to the radial border and the ball of the thumb, branch; ^ rpj^ Q^QY krarjcn (internal) supplies the remaining side of the thumb, both sides of the next two digits, and half the ring finger ; so that the radial nerve supplies the same number of digital branches on the dorsal aspect as the median nerve furnishes on the which palmar :aspect. This division of the radial nerve communicates the'fin- with the musculo-cutaneous and ulnar nerves ; and the offset, which gers* is distributed to the contiguous sides of the ring and middle fingers, is joined by another twig from the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. Termi- On the sides of the fingers each of these dorsal digital nerves- is united with an offset from the corresponding digital nerve on the palmar surface, and then extends to the tip of the finger. Branch The dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve furnishes offsets to the rest nerve to of the fingers and to the back of the hand. Appearing by the hand and styloid process of the ulna, this branch joins in an arch across the back of the hand with a twig from the radial nerve, and is then fingers, distributed to both sides of the little finger, and to the contiguous side of the ring finger : moreover, it communicates with the part of the radial nerve that supplies the space between the ring and middle fingers. The ulnar nerve will be afterwards seen to supply branches to the same number of digits on the palmar surface. Deep The aponeurosis of the fore-arm is continuous with a293 APONEUROSIS OF THE EORE-ARM. similar investment of the arm; it furnishes the muscles fascia of with sheaths, and is thicker behind than before. It is of a arm. pearly white colour, and is formed of fibres that cross obliquely. Near the elbow it is stronger than towards the hand; and at that part it receives fibres from the tendons of the biceps and brachialis anticus, and joins the muscles attached to the inner condyle of the humerus. On the back Pn,th<* J back of of the fore-arm, the aponeurosis is connected to the margins the limb- of the ulna, so as to leave the upper part of that bone sab- cutaneous ; and it receives some fibres from the tendon of the triceps. Horizontal processes are sent downwards from Inter- the aponeurosis to separate the superficial and deep layers of l^eces muscles, both on the front and the back of the fore-arm ; and longitudinal white bands indicate the position of the different intermuscular processes, which isolate one muscle from another, and give origin to the muscular fibres. At the wrist the fascia joins the anterior annular ligament; at*he u . . wrist; and near this band, the tendon of the palmaris longus pierces the fascia, and receives a sheath from it. Behind the wrist annular it is thickened by transverse fibres, and gives rise to the ment. posterior annular ligament; but on the back of the hand and fingers the fascia becomes very thin and cellular. Dissection. — The skin is to be replaced on the back of the Take away fore-arm and hand, in the same manner as on the back of fascia, nerves, the arm, in order that the parts that are denuded may not a"d . J veins. become dry. Beginning with the dissection of the anterior aspect of the limb, let the student divide the aponeurosis along the front of the fore-arm as far as the wrist, and take it away with all the cutaneous vessels and nerves, except the small palmar cutaneous offsets of the median and ulnar nerves near the wrist. In cleaning the muscles, it will be impossible to remove the aponeurosis from them, at the upper part of the fore-arm, without detaching the muscular fibres. After the aponeurosis has been removed, the termination Vessels of the brachial artery will be observed to lie in some fat in a seen- hollow in front of the elbow, between two masses of muscles, — one arising from the inner, and the other from the outer condyle of the humerus. Two large arteries are in part laid bare ; one (radial) lies along the radial border of the fore- arm, the other (ulnar) is superficial only in the lower half ofDISSECTION OF THE FORE-ARM. 294 the fore-arm, and at the ulnar side. These vessels and their branches should be carefully cleaned. Define The anterior annular ligament of the wrist, which arches annular over the tendons passing from the fore-arm to the hand, is ment. next to be defined. This structure is at some little depth from the surface ; whilst the student attempts to make it apparent by removing the tissue superficial to it, he must take care of the small branches of the median and ulnar nerves to the palm of the hand. The ulnar artery and nerve pass over the ligament, and will serve as a guide to it. Hollow Hollow in front of the elbow. — This hollow in front of in front of the the bend of the elbow, corresponds to that of the popliteal space in the leg, and is situate between the inner and the outer mass of the muscles of the fore-arm. The interval is somewhat triangular in shape, and the wider part is towards Bounda- the humerus. On the outer side it is bounded immediately ries. m m * by the supinator longus muscle, and on the inner side by the pronator teres. The aponeurosis of the limb is stretched over the space; and the bones of the arm, covered by the brachialis anticus muscle, form the deep boundary. Contents Contents. — In this hollow are lodged the termination ox space the brachial artery with the median nerve, the musculo! spiral nerve, the tendon of the biceps muscle, and some cel- lular membrane; these several parts have the following and their relative position in the space : — The tendon of the biceps is to one" directed towards the outer boundary to reach the radius, into which it is inserted ; and the musculo-spiral nerve is close to the outer side, being partly concealed by the supi- nator longus muscle. The brachial vessels and the median nerve occupy nearly the centre of the space, the nerve being internal; but as the artery is inclining to the outer part of the limb, they are soon distant from one another about half an inch. In this space the brachial artery divides into two trunks-—radial and ulnar, superfi- Muscles on the front of the fore-arm.—The mus- layer cles on the anterior and inner parts of the fore-arm are has five... . . _ T1 muscles, divided into a superficial and a deep layer. In the super- ficial layer there are five muscles, which are fixed to the inner condyle of the humerus, mostly by a common tendon, and lie in the undermentioned order from the outer to the inner side of the limb; viz. pronator radii teres, flexor carpiFLEXOR MUSCLES OF THE FORE-ARM. 295 radialis, palmaris longus, flexor carpi ulnaris, which are on the same level; and deeper and larger than any of these is the flexor sublimis digitorum. The deep layer will be met with in a future dissection. The pronator radii teres arises from the inner condyle Pronator teres. of the humerus by the common tendon, and often by fleshy fibres from the ridge above the condyle; from the inner part of the coronoid process by a second tendinous slip ; and from origin, the fascia and the intermuscular septum between it and the next muscle. It is inserted by a rather flat tendon into an inser- impression, an inch in length, on the outer surface of the middle of the radius. The muscle is superficial, except at its insertion, where it is crossed by the radial artery, and concealed by the supinator longus of the outer set of mus- cles. The outer border constitutes one boundary of the triangular space in front of the elbow, and the inner border is contiguous to the flexor carpi radialis. By gently sepa- connec- rating the muscle from the rest, it will be found to lie on tl0ns" the brachialis anticus, on the flexor sublimis digitorum, and on the ulnar artery and the median nerve. The second small head of origin is directed inwards between the artery and the nerve. The flexor carpi radialis takes its origin from the Radiai common tendon, from the aponeurosis of the fore-arm, and fhe wrist from the intermuscular septum on each side. The tendon of the muscle, becoming free from fleshy fibres about the middle of the fore-arm, passes through a groove in the os trapezium, outside the attachment of the anterior an- nular ligament, and is inserted into the bases of the meta- carpal bones of the index and middle fingers. This muscle is super- rests chiefly on the flexor sublimis digitorum, but near its origin it is in contact with the ulnar artery and the median nerve ; and at the lower part of the fore-arm it lies over the flexor longus pollicis, — a muscle of the deep layer. As low jS the as the middle of the fore-arm the muscle corresponds CX- fhe ra- ternally to the pronator teres, and below that point to the teryfr" radial artery, to which its tendon is taken as the guide. The ulnar border is at first in contact with the palmaris longus muscle, and then with the median nerve for about two inches above the wrist. The palmaris longus is often absent; or it may present Long u 4DISSECTION OF THE FORE ARM. 296 palmar great irregularity in the proportion between its fleshy and muscle n , ,-. tendinous parts. Its origin is like that 01 the preceding muscle, viz. from the common tendon, the fascia, and the annular' inte™uscu^ar septa. Its long thin tendon is continued Nga- through the centre of the fore-arm, and over the annular ment ° ' fn fasTia8 ^&ament *° en(^ m the palmar fascia. The palmaris is of palm, situate between the flexor carpi radialis and flexor carpi ulnaris muscles, and rests on the flexor sublimis digitorum. Flexor The flexor carpi ulnaris has an aponeurotic attach- carpi L ulnaris. ment to the inner condyle of the humerus; to the inner side Origin. J m 7 of the olecranon ; and to the ridge of the ulna, between the internal and external surfaces, for three fourths of its length. The fibres are continued vertically downwards or obliquely forwards to a tendon, which occupies the anterior aspect of the muscle in its lower half, and some join it as low as the insertion wrist; and the tendon is inserted into the pisiform bone, formPlsl whilst an offset is sent to the annular ligament, and to the muscles of the little finger. One surface of the muscle is in contact with the fascia; and its tendon may be taken as the guide to the ulnar artery, since it can be readily felt through Adjacent the skin. To its radial side are the palmaris and flexor *5artb* digitorum sublimis muscles, but below the middle of the fore-arm the ulnar artery and nerve are placed along it. When the attachment to the inner condyle has been divided, and the subjacent parts cleaned, the muscle will be seen to conceal the flexor digitorum sublimis and flexor profundus, the ulnar nerve, and the ulnar vessels in part. Between the attachments to the condyle and the olecranon the ulnar nerve enters the fore-arm. Course The radial artery is one of the vessels derived from the tent of" bifurcation of the brachial trunk, and its destination is the diaiar- palm of the hand. It is first placed along the outer side of tery* the fore-arm as far as the end of the radius ; it then winds backwards below the end of that bone ; and it enters finally the palm of the hand through the first interosseous space. In consequence of this circuitous course the artery will be found in three different regions; viz. the front of the fore- arm, the back of the wrist, and the palm of the hand, situation In the front of the fore-arm.—In this part of the limb the fore- position of the artery will be marked, on the surface, by a line drawn from the centre of the hollow of the elbow toRADIAL ARTERY AND BRANCHES. 297 the styloid process of the radius. This vessel is smaller than the ulnar artery, though it appears in direction to be the continuation of the brachial trunk. In all its extent the radial artery is quite superficial, being Connec- . , Hons covered only by the common tegumentary investments and with the deep fascia, and during life it can be felt beating as over it, the pulse near the wrist. Its connections with the surround- ing muscles and the radius are these : — in the upper half of ™^e the fore-arm the artery is placed between the supinator longus externally and the pronator teres internally, the former somewhat overlapping it; but below that point it lies between the tendons of the supinator longus and flexor carpi radialis muscles. At first the vessel is on the inner behind, . and with side of the radius, but afterwards over that bone; it is the radius. placed successively over the following parts, viz. the fleshy supinator brevis, the tendon of the pronator teres, the thin radial origin of the flexor sublimis, some muscles of the deep layer, viz. flexor pollicis longus and pronator quadratus, and lastly on the end of the radius. The usual venae comites are veins found on the sides of the artery. The radial nerve is on the nerve . . with it. outer side of, though not in contact with the vessel, in the upper two thirds of the fore-arm, or until it passes back- wards beneath the tendon of the supinator longus, and be- comes cutaneous. Branches. — The radial artery furnishes in the fore-arm Branch- many unnamed muscular and nutrient branches to the sur- niuscu- rounding parts; and three named branches, viz. recurrent anasto- radial, superficial volar, and anterior carpal. a. The radial recurrent is the first branch of the artery, and Radial supplies the muscles of the outer side of the fore-arm. Its course rent!" is almost transverse to the supinator longus muscle, beneath which it terminates in muscular branches. One offset ascends beneath the supinator, to anastomose with the superior profunda branch of the brachial artery. h. The superficial volar branch usually arises near the lower Super- end of the radius, but its exact place of origin is uncertain. It is volar, directed to the palm of the hand, across the mass of muscle in the ball of the thumb, and it either ends in those muscles, or joins the superficial palmar arch. c. The anterior carpal branch is very inconsiderable in size, and Anterior will be seen in the examination of the deep layer of muscles on the carpd1, front of the fore-arm. Arising rather above the lower end of the298 DISSECTION OF THE FORE-ARM. radius, this artery passes transversely beneath the muscles, and anastomoses with a similar branch from the ulnar artery. From the arch thus formed at the lower border of the pronator quadrat us muscle, offsets are given to the carpus. Varia- Peculiarities of the radial artery. — The origin of the radial artery the ori- may be carried upwards in the arm, from the usual place even to sin the axilla ; and the unusual beginning of this vessel in the humeral is much more frequent than that of either of the other arteries of the fore-arm, bearing to their variation in this particular the pro- portion in a given number of cases of about three to four. In one instance (Quain), it was noticed between two and three inches below the elbow joint, and in that case a vas aberrans connected it and with the axillary artery. When the radial artery has the high therSe °f origin, its course in the arm is close to the brachial artery, along radial. e(jge Qf ^Q bicepS muscle; and. in passing the bend of the elbow it may be subcutaneous, viz. above the deep fascia, and be mistaken for a vein in venesection. In the fore-arm it may likewise be sub- cutaneous, and superficial to the supinator longus muscle. Connect- The vasa aherrantia, or the long slender branches of the axillary branch- or brachial trunks, open commonly into the radial artery. In some cases of high origin of the radial, there is a connecting branch, at the bend of the elbow, between that irregular vessel and the trunk in the place of the brachial artery. Dissec- Dissection. — To bring into view the remaining muscle of tion. . 0 .... the superficial layer (flexor sublimis digitorum), the origin of the flexor carpi radialis and palmaris longus must be cut through near the inner condyle of the humerus, and turned to one side. Small branches of the ulnar artery and median nerve may be seen to enter the under surface of those muscles. For the present, the pronator teres may be left uncut. Superfi- The FLEXOR DIGITORUM SUBLIMIS Vel PERFORATUS is the flexor of largest of the muscles of the superficial layer, and is named from its position with regard to another flexor in the deep Origin, layer of muscles. It arises from the inner condyle of the humerus, from the internal lateral ligament, and from the intermuscular septa, in common with the preceding muscles ; and it takes origin in addition from the bones of the fore- arm, viz. from the inner part of the coronoid process of the ulna; and from the oblique line on the radius, from the tubercle to as far as two inches below the insertion of the pronator teres. Rather below the middle of the fore-arm the muscle ends in four tendons, which are continued acrossULNAR ARTERY AND BRANCHES. 299 the hand to be inserted into the middle phalanges of the inser- fingers, after being perforated by the tendons of the deep Itsten. flexor. ~ dons The flexor sublimis is concealed above by the other pierced muscles of the superficial layer; and the radial vessels lie on alxor? the attachment to the radius. Along the inner border 3S Connec- the flexor carpi ulnaris, with the ulnar vessels and nerve, with The tendons of the muscle are arranged in pairs before they around, enter beneath the annular ligament of the wrist; those of the middle and ring fingers being anterior, and those of the index and little finger posterior in position. When the coronoid and condyloid attachments are divided, the muscle will be seen to cover two flexors of the deep layer (flexor 'digit, profundus and flexor pollicis), the median nerve, and the upper part of the ulnar artery. The ulnar artery is the larger of the two branches from ulnar the bifurcation of the brachial trunk, and is directed along ends in the inner side of the fore-arm to the palm of the hand. At fid.0 its extremity it forms the superficial palmar arch, and joins the radial artery. In the fore-arm the vessel has an arched direction, and its connec- depth from the surface varies in the first and last parts of the*m its course. In the upper half of the fore-arm the artery is upper inclined obliquely inwards, between the superficial and deep layers of muscles, and is covered by the former, viz. by the pronator teres, flexor sublimis, palmaris longus, and flexor carpi radialis. But below the spot mentioned, the vessel is and quite superficial between the tendons of the flexor sublimis {jaTfof and flexor carpi ulnaris, and is concealed only by the com- Sm.°re" mon integuments and the proper fascia of the limb, though the flexor ulnaris somewhat overlays it, and serves as the guide to its position. Beneath the artery will be found first the brachialis anticus for a short distance, and afterwards the flexor profundus. The two companion veins are situate on the sides of the position artery. The median nerve lies to the inner side of the vessel andems for about an inch, but then crosses over that trunk to gain nerves* the outer side. About the middle of the fore-arm, the ulnar nerve approaches the artery, and continues thence on the inner side. A small branch of the ulnar nerve descends on its lower part to the palm of the hand.DISSECTION OF THE FOKE-ARM. 300 Position On the annular ligament of the wrist, the artery lies close annular to the pisiform bone, and is crossed by a band of fibres pro- ment. longed from the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris to that ligament. The ulnar nerve still accompanies the vessel, having the same position, viz. on the inner side. *ts , Branches. — The greater number of the collateral branches branches 0 besides 0f the artery are distributed to the muscles. But the muscu- J lar are branches which are named are the following : — anterior «. The anterior ulnar recurrent branch arises generally in com- and mon with the next, and turns upwards on the brachialis anticus muscle, to inosculate with the small anastomotic artery beneath the pronator radii teres. It gives offsets to the contiguous muscles, posterior b. The posterior ulnar recurrent branch, of larger size than the recur- ... • - rent, anterior, is directed inwards beneath the flexor sublimis muscle to the interval between the inner condyle and the olecranon. Here it passes with the ulnar nerve between the attachments of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and joins the ramifications of the inferior profunda and anastomotic arteries on the inner side of the elbow joint. Some of its offsets enter the muscles, and others supply the articulation and the ulnar nerve, inter- c. The interosseous branch is a short, thick trunk, about an inch osseous, iong? that is directed backwards towards the interosseous mem- brane, and divides into anterior and posterior interosseous arteries : these branches will be afterwards followed, meta- d- The metacarpal branch arises from the artery near the lower carpal, en(j 0f the ulna, and turns back along the metacarpal bone of the little finger, of which it forms a dorsal branch, and e. The carpal branches (anterior and posterior) ramify on the carpal. front an(j hack of the carpus, on which they anastomose with cor- responding offsets of the radial artery, and form arches across the wrist. Theori- Peculiarities of the ulnar artery. — The place of origin has a ten- gln dency to approach the trunk of the body, and it may therefore be changed to any point along the arm, or even to the axilla; but this deviation is much less frequent in it than in the radial artery. Once the origin was found between two and three inches below the elbow. (Quain.) and Its position in the fore-arm, when the vessel is irregular, is more t£erasre_of frequently changed than that of the radial under similar circum- vary.may stances- Commonly, in the instances of high origin, the ulnar artery is superficial to the flexor muscles at the bend of the elbow (only one exception Mr. Quain), but beneath the aponeurosis of the fore-arm, though sometimes it is subcutaneous with the super- ficial veins.301 NERVES ON FRONT OF THE FORE-ARM. The ulnar nerve enters the fore-arm between the attach- ulnar i it ii nerve in ments of the flexor carpi ulnaris to the olecranon and the the fore- inner condyle of the humerus. Under cover of that muscle the nerve reaches the ulnar artery about the middle (in length) of the fore-arm, and is then continued on the inner side of the vessel to the hand. On the annular ligament the nerve is rather posterior to the artery. In the fore-arm it its furnishes articular, muscular, and cutaneous branches as are below: — a. Articular nerves. — In the interval between the olecranon and to elbow the inner condyle, the ulnar nerve gives slender filaments to the J01nt' articulation against which it lies. b. Muscular branches. — It furnishes offsets near the elbow joint twomus- to two muscles of the fore-arm, viz. flexor carpi ulnaris and flexor fo?e-°f profundus. One branch enters the upper part of the flexor carpi arra» ulnaris, and another supplies the inner half of the flexor profundus digitorum. c. Cutaneous nerve of the fore-arm and hand. — About the middle cutane- of the fore-arm a small cutaneous branch (palmar) arises from the branch nerve, and continues on the ulnar artery, sending twigs around it, of hand, to end in the integuments of the palm of the hand. Sometimes a cutaneous offset from it perforates the aponeurosis of the fore-arm, and joins the internal cutaneous nerve. d. The dorsal cutaneous nerve of the hand arises about two inches cuta- above the end of the ulna, and passes obliquely backwards beneath nerve of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle : it finally perforates the aponeu- hand°f rosis of the limb, and is lost on the back of the hand and fingers (see p. 292.) The median nerve leaves the hollow of the elbow between Median the heads of orign of the pronator teres, and takes the middle nerve line of the fore-arm in its course to the hand. It is placed iies be- beneath the flexor sublimis as low as two inches from the theetwo annular ligament, but it then becomes superficial along the muscles! outer border of the tendons of that muscle. Lastly the nerve dips beneath the annular ligament to enter the palm of the hand, where it is distributed. This is the muscular nerve of the front of the fore-arm, for it furnishes cutaneous offsets only to the hand. a. Muscular offsets leave the trunk of the nerve near the elbow, Supplies and are distributed to all the muscles of the superficial layer in cies!™113" front of the fore-arm, except the flexor carpi ulnaris ; in addition, one^and the nerve supplies the deep layer through the following branch a half>DISSECTION OF THE FORE-ARM. 302 (interosseous), except a part, viz. the inner half of the flexor pro- fundus digitorum. in both b. The anterior interosseous nerve. — By means of this nerve, the layers. remam;ng muscles of the deep layer are supplied, with the excep- tion above specified. It accompanies the anterior interosseous artery, and will be dissected with that vessel. A cuta- c. The cutaneous palmar branch arises at the lower part of the branch fore-arm; it pierces the fascia near the annular ligament, and of hand crosses *ne ligament to reach the palm of the hand. Radial The radial nerve is the larger of the two branches into D6rv6 in which the musculo-spiral divides in front of the outer con- dyle of the humerus. This nerve is placed along the outer the fore- border of the fore-arm, under cover of the supinator longus, and on the outer side of the radial artery till within three inches of the wrist, where it becomes cutaneous at the pos- ends on terior part of the tendon of the supinator. On the surface of thehand. the limb it divides into two branches, which are distributed on the dorsum of the hand, and on the thumb and the next two fingers (p. 292.). No offset is furnished by the part of the nerve beneath the aponeurosis. Dissec- Dissection.—To examine the deep layer of muscles it will deep0f be necessary to draw well over to the radial side of the fore- muscies. arm the pronator teres and flexor sublimis muscles ; or, if it is thought necessary, these muscles may be divided. The cellular tissue is to be taken from the muscular fibres; and the anterior interosseous vessels and nerve, which lie on the interosseous membrane and are concealed by the muscles, are to be traced out. Three Deep layer of muscles. — Only three muscles are JnThe58 present in the deep layer on the front of the fore-arm. One fayer. lies on the ulna, and is the deep flexor of the fingers; another covers the radius, — the long flexor of the thumb ; and the third is the pronator, which is beneath the other two, near the lower end of the bones. Drep The FLEXOR DIGITORUM PROFUNDUS Vel PERFORANS arises fingers?*" from the anterior and inner surfaces of the ulna for three- Origin, fourths of the length of the bone, and from the inner half of the interosseous ligament; from the inner part of the ole- cranon, and from an aponeurosis common to this muscle and is at. the flexor carpi ulnaris. The muscle has a thick fleshy belly, last pha- and ends in four tendons, which are not separate above the langes. annujar iigamen^ an(j whose destination is the last phalanges303 MUSCLES ON FRONT OF THE FORE-ARM. of the fingers. The cutaneous surface of the muscle is in Parts contact with the ulnar nerve and vessels, and with the super- it. ficial flexor of the fingers, and the flexor carpi ulnaris; and the deep surface rests on the ulna and the pronator quadratus muscle. The outer border touches the flexor pollicis longus and the anterior interosseous vessels and nerve; and the inner is connected by the aponeurosis to the posterior margin of the ulna. The flexor longus pollicis arises from the hollowed Jon^ flexor anterior surface of the radius as low as the pronator qua- j£umb dratus, from the outer part of the interosseous membrane, origin, and by a round distinct slip from the coronoid process of the ulna, external to the attachment of the brachialis anticus. The fleshy fibres descend to a tendon, which is continued beneath the annular ligament and is inserted into the last inser- phalanx of the thumb. On the cutaneous surface of the Parjs muscle is the flexor sublimis, together with the radial vessels above for a short distance inferiorly; and the muscle lies on the and be- . neath it. radius and the pronator quadratus. To the inner side is the flexor profundus digitorum. The PRONATOR QUADRATUS is a flat muscle, and OCCUpieS Pronator the front of the bones of the fore-arm at the lower fourth, tus is on The muscle arises from the anterior and inner parts of the end of ulna, where it is somewhat the widest, and is inserted into fore-arm the fore part of the radius for about two inches. The is deep anterior surface is covered by the tendons of the flexor Son?" muscles of the fingers, and by the radial artery; and the posterior surface rests on the radius and ulna with their intervening membrane, and on the interosseous vessels and nerve. The anterior interosseous artery (p. 300.) is continued Anterior on the front of the interosseous membrane, between or in osseous the fibres of the deep flexor muscles, till it reaches the aper- artely< ture below that membrane. At that spot the artery turns from the front to the back of the fore-arm, and descends to the posterior aspect of the carpus, where it ends by anasto- mosing with the posterior interosseous and carpal arteries. Branches.—Numerous offsets are given to the contiguous its muscles. One Jong branch (median) accompanies the median chiefly "s nerve, supplying it, and either ends in the flexor sublimis, or Sr.scu" extends beneath the annular ligament to the hand. About304 DISSECTION OF THE FORE-ARM. to the the middle of the fore-arm the nutrient vessels of the bones bones. . arise Irom the artery. Where it is about to turn backwards, it furnishes twigs to the pronator quadratus, and one branch is continued beneath that muscle to anastomose with the anterior carpal arteries. Anterior The anterior interosseous nerve is derived from the median interos- nervl ^2.)> an(* accompanies the artery of the same name to proni" tlie Pronator quadratus muscle, on the under surface of tor. which it ends. Some lateral branches are distributed by it to the deep flexor muscles. Section V. THE PALM OF THE HAND. Dissec- Dissection.—Without any change in the position of the seek the nan(^> tne skin *s to De reflected from the palm by means of neous two incisions. One is to be carried along the centre of the hand from the wrist to the fingers; and the other is to be made, from side to side, at the termination of the first. In raising the inner flap, the small palmaris brevis muscle will be recognised at the inner margin of ♦the hand, near the wrist. In the fat the ramifications of the small branches (palmar) of the median and ulnar nerves are to be found. Define The student should remove the fat from the small muscle, nerves. marPfas". and from the strong palmar fascia in the centre of the cia. hand, and should be careful not to destroy a thin transverse band of tissue (transverse ligament), that passes across the roots of the fingers. When cleaning the fat from the palmar fascia he will recognise the digital vessels and nerves, and must direct his attention especially to two : — viz. those of the inner side of the little finger and outer side of the index finger, which appear farther back than the rest, and are most likely to be injured, and ex- Lastly, the skin and the fat may be reflected from the digital thumb and the fingers by an incision along each, so as to expose the sheaths of the tendons with the collateral vessels and nerves. Two cu- Cutaneous palmar nerves.—Two named cutaneous nerves ramify palmar8 m the palm of the hand. a. One of these is an offset of the median nerves. nerve (p> 302.), and crosses the annular ligament: it extends to about the middle of the palm, and is connected with the palmarPALMAR MUSCLE AND FASCIA. 305 branch of the ulnar nerve. A few filaments of this nerve are fur- One of nished to the ball of the thumb, b. The other palmar branch is other of derived from the ulnar nerve (p. 301.) ; it has been already traced on the ulnar artery to the hand, and it may now be observed as far as its distribution in the palm. Some unnamed twigs are also furnished to the integument from Some ° ° unnamed both the median and ulnar nerves in the hand. twigs. The palmaris brevis is a small subcutaneous muscle, Paimaris brevis is about an inch and a half wide, whose fibres are collected subcu- taneous, into separate bundles. It is attached on the outer side to the and ends L in the palmar aponeurosis, and its fibres are directed inwards to skin, join the skin at the inner border of the hand. This muscle lies over the ulnar artery and nerve. After it has been examined, it may be thrown inwards. The palmar fascia, or aponeurosis, consists of a central ^J™ar and two lateral parts; but the latter, which cover the muscles of the thumb and little finger, are so thin as not to require a separate notice. The central part is a strong, white, shining layer, which IS Its cen- pointed at the wrist; but is expanded towards the fingers, ra part where it covers the whole width of the hand. Posteriorly, the central part of the fascia receives the tendon of the palmaris longus, and is connected to the annular ligament; and anteriorly it ends in four processes, which are continued ends in a forwards, one for each finger, to join the sheaths of the each.6 °r tendons. At the point of separation of the processes one fiuger' from another, are placed some transverse fibres, which arch over the lumbricalis muscle, and the digital artery and nerve that appear at this spot. A few superficial fibres are pro- longed from the four pieces, into which the fascia divides, to the integument at the cleft of the fingers, and to the trans- verse ligament. Dissection. — To follow one of the processes of the fascia LMssec- to its junction with the sheath of the tendons, its superficial fibres must first be removed, and it must then be divided longitudinally, by inserting the knife beneath it, opposite the head of the metacarpal bone. The process of the fascia may be now seen to send down- Ending wards, on each side of the tendons, an offset, which is fixed pieces of to the ligament connecting together the ends of the meta- carpal bones, as well as to the borders of the corresponding x306 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. bone for a short distance. The same disposition exists in each of the processes. Liga- The transverse ligament of the fingers is a thin fibrous mentof v J J V the fin- band, which stretches across the roots of the fingers, and is gers. , contained in the fold of skin forming the rudiment of a web between them. Beneath it the digital nerves and vessels are continued onwards to their terminations, sheath Sheath of the flexor tendons. — Along each finger the tendons flexor tendons are retained in position against the phalanges varies in by a fibrous sheath. Opposite the middle of each of the two ness. nearest phalanges, the sheath is formed by a strong fibrous band, which is almost tendinous in consistence; but oppo- site the joints of the fingers it consists of scattered and Has a oblique fibres, that form a thin membrane. If the sheath be synovial sac. opened, it will be found to be lined by a synovial membrane that lubricates the tendons, and forms vascular folds (vincula vasculosa) between the tendons and the wall of the sheath. Dissec- Dissection. — The palmar fascia, and the thinner parts of the sheaths of the tendons opposite the joints of the fingers, may now be taken away. On the removal of the fascia the palmar arch of arteries, and the median and ulnar nerves become apparent. superfi- Palmar Part of the Ulnar Artery.—In the palm of nlarpal" the hand the ulnar artery is directed outwards towards the arch* muscles of the thumb, where it communicates with the radial artery through the superficial volar branch, and the branch to the radial side of the fore-finger. The curved part of the artery, that lies across the hand, is named the superficial Position palmar arch. Its convexity is turned towards the fingers, hancUnd and its position in the palm would be nearly marked by a line across the hand from the root of the thumb. The arch connec- is comparatively superficial; it is covered in greater part lons* only by the integuments and the palmar fascia, but at the inner border of the hand the palmaris brevis muscle overlays it. Beneath it are the flexor tendons and the branches of the ulnar and median nerves. Branch- Branches. — From the convexity of the arch proceed the digital arteries, and from the concavity, some small offsets to the palm of the hand. A small branch (profunda) arises as soon as the artery enters the hand. to join a. The deep or communicating (profunda) branch is smallULNAR ARTERY AND NERVE. 307 in size, and passes downwards, with a branch of the ulnar the deep nerve, between the abductor and short flexor muscles of the little finger, to inosculate with the deep palmar arch of the radial artery. b. The digital branches are four in number, and supply Four . , ' i o \ digital both sides of the three inner fingers and one side of the branch- index finger. The branch to the inner side of the hand and the little finger is undivided in its course; but the others in the correspond to the three inner interosseous spaces, and bifur- cate anteriorly to supply the contiguous sides of the above- said digits. In the hand these branches are accompanied by the digital nerves, which they sometimes pierce. Near the root of the fingers each receives a communicating branch from the vessels of the deep arch; but the artery for the inner side of the little finger has its communicating offset about the middle of the hand. From the point of bifurcation the branches extend along the Termi- sides of the fingers, accompanied by the digital nerves, and on the Sdes ofn last phalanx the vessels of opposite sides unite in an arch, from lers?n" whose convexity offsets proceed to supply the papillae of the ball of the finger, as well as the pulp beneath the nail. Collateral branches are furnished to the finger and the sheath of the tendons ; and some small twigs are supplied to the phalangeal articulations from a small arterial arch on the bone, close behind each joint. Palmar Part of the Ulnar Nerve.—The ulnar nerve ulnar divides on the annular ligament or near it, into a superficial the hand and a deep branch; these are distributed to one finger and a half, and to some of the muscles of the hand. The deep branch accompanies the profunda artery to the has a muscles, and will be subsequently dissected with that vessel. The superficial branch furnishes an offset to the palmaris superfi- brevis muscle, and some filaments to the integument of the °ia part" inner part of the hand, and then ends in two digital nerves for the supply of both sides of the little finger and half the next: — Digital nerves.—The more internal nerve is undivided, The last like the corresponding artery. The other is directed to the fw^dT- cleft between the ring and little fingers, where it bifurcates SerJes. for the supply of their opposed sides. In the palm of the for little hand this last branch is connected with a digital branch of and half the median nerve. Along the sides of the fingers the digital next*308 DISSECTION OF THE HANDS. branches have the same anatomy as those of the median nerve. Median PALMAR PART OF THE MEDIAN NERVE. As SOOn as the nerve in! . _ it the hand median nerve issues irom beneath the annular ligament into muscles the palm of the hand, it becomes enlarged and somewhat fingers, flattened, and is divided into two nearly equal parts: from these divisions the digital nerves to the thumb and to the remaining two fingers and a half are derived. The more external of the two parts furnishes likewise a small mus- cular branch to the ball of the thumb. The trunk of the nerve and its branches are covered in the hand by the palmar fascia; and beneath them are the tendons of the flexor muscles. Branch The branch to the muscles of the thumb supplies the outer muscles, half of the short flexor, and ends in the abductor and oppo- nens pollicis muscles. Digital The digital nerves are five in number. Three of them, nerves are five, which are distributed to the sides of the thumb and the supply radial side of the fore-finger, are undivided, and are fur- and two nished by the external of the two parts into which the trunk and a of the median divides; the other two spring from the inner branch resulting from the division of that nerve, and are bifurcated to supply the opposed sides of the middle and fore, and the middle and ring fingers. First The first two nerves belong to the thumb, one being on each side, two' and the most external communicates with branches of the radial third, nerve. The third is directed to the radial side of the index finger, and gives a branch to the most external lumbrical muscle. The fourth, fourth furnishes a nerve to the second lumbrical muscle, and divides to supply the contiguous sides of the fore and middle fingers. The fifth. fifth, like the fourth, is distributed by two branches to the opposed sides of the middle and ring fingers : it is joined by a branch from the ulnar nerve. Termi- On the sides of the fingers the nerves are superficial to the onthe arteries, and reach to the last phalanx, where they end in filaments thefinf ^or ^e on ^e front °f ^e nnger> and for the skin beneath the sers- nail. In their course forwards, the nerves supply chiefly tegu- mentary branches: one of these is directed backwards by the side of the metacarpal phalanx, and, after uniting with the digital nerve on the back of the finger (p. 292.), is continued to the dorsum of the last phalanx. Dissec- Dissection. — The tendons of the flexor muscles may nextFLEXOR TENDONS OF THE FINGERS. 309 be followed to their termination. For that purpose the ulnar tion of artery should be cut through below the origin of the pro- tendons funda branch; and the small superficial volar branch (of the radial) having been also divided, the arch is to be thrown forwards to the fingers. The ulnar and median nerves are then to be cut below the annular ligament, and turned for- wards. A longitudinal incision is to be made through the centre of the annular ligament, without injuring the small muscles that arise from it, and the pieces of the ligament are to be thrown to the sides. Finally the sheaths of the fingers may be opened for the purpose of observing the insertion of the tendons. Flexor tendons.— Beneath the annular ligament the Synovial tendons of the deep and superficial flexors are surrounded by rounds a large and loose synovial membrane, which projects upwards into the fore-arm, and downwards into the hand, and sends an offset into the digital sheath of both the thumb and the little finger. In the hand the tendons of the deep flexor give attachment to the small lumbrical muscles. Tendons of the flexor sublimis. — Beneath the annular Tendons ligament, the tendons of the flexor sublimis are superficial ficial^ to those of the deep flexor ; and the four tendons are nearly on the same level, instead of being arranged in pairs as in the fore-arm. Crossing the palm of the hand, the tendons in the enter the sheaths of the fingers, and are inserted by two Inserl processes into the margins of the middle phalanx, about the tlon* centre. When first entering the digital sheath, the tendon of the flexor sublimis conceals that of the flexor profundus; but near the front of the first phalanx it is slit for the pas- Are slit sasre of the tendon of the latter muscle, deep Dissection,—To see the tendons of the deep flexors and Disse^ the lumbrical muscles, the flexor sublimis must be cut through tion- above the wrist, and thrown towards the fingers. There will be a little cellular tissue to take away. Tendons of the flexor profundus.—At the lower border of Tendons the annular ligament the tendinous mass of the flexor pro- flexor fundus is divided into four pieces ; but in the fore-arm only one tendon, that of the fore-finger, is distinct from the rest. From the ligament the four tendons are directed through cross the the hand to the fingers. At the root of the finger each enters the digital sheath with a tendon of the flexor sublimis, and310 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. to their having passed through, that tendon, is inserted into the base inser- _ tion. oi the last phalanx. Tendon Tendon of the flexor pollicis longus.—Beneath the an- nexorgof nular ligament this tendon is external to those of the flexor profundus ; it then turns outwards between the heads of the to its in- flexor brevis pollicis, and is inserted into the last phalanx sertion. ^ ^e thumb. The common synovial membrane surrounds it beneath the annular ligament, and sends a prolongation, as before said, into its digital sheath. Lumbri- The lumbricales muscles are four small fleshy slips that cies are are connected with the tendons of the deep flexor. They to deep arise from the side of the tendons, near the annular liga- ment, and are directed to the radial side of the fingers, one for each, to be inserted into an aponeurotic expansion on an^first the dorsal aspect of the first or metacarpal phalanx. These muscles are concealed for the most part by the tendons and Differ- vessels that have been removed; but they are subcutaneous ence in origin, for a short distance in the hand between the processes of the palmar fascia. The outer two arise from single tendons, but each of the others is connected with two tendons. Dissec- Dissection—The deep palmar arch of the radial artery muscles and the interossei muscles will come into view if the flexor and little profundus is cut above the wrist, and thrown with the lum- ntoGr' bricales muscles towards the fingers ; but in raising the ten- dons the student should endeavour to preserve two small nerves that enter the two inner lumbrical muscles. The dissection of the short muscles of the ball of the thumb and of the little finger is next to be prepared. Some care is necessary to make a satisfactory separation of the different small muscles of the thumb: those of the little finger are more easily defined. Four Short muscles of the thumb.— These are four in num- SThe68 ber, and are named from their action on the thumb. The the most superficial is the abductor pollicis; beneath it is the viz. ' opponens pollicis, which is recognised by its attachment to the whole length of the metacarpal bone. To the inner side of the last is the short flexor; and the wide muscle coming from the the third metacarpal bone is the adductor of the thumb. Abduc- The abductor pollicis is thin, about an inch wide, and tor.311 MUSCLES OF THE THUMB. is superficial to the rest. It arises from the upper part of the annular ligament at the radial side, and from the ridge of the os trapezium, and is inserted into the outer part of the Attach- base of the first phalanx of the thumb. The muscle is sub- Isthe cutaneous, and rests on the opponens pollicis: it is often- perficiai times connected at its origin with a slip from the tendon of the extensor ossis metacarpi. Dissection.—The opponens pollicis will be seen on cutting pissec-; through the abductor. To separate the opponens from the short flexor on the inner side, the student should begin near the farther end of the metacarpal bone, where there is usually a cellular interval. The opponens pollicis arises from the lower part of the oppo- nens fix- annular ligament beneath the preceding, and from the os edtome. to . o tacarpal trapezium and its ridge ; it is inserted into the front and the bone, outer border of the metacarpal bone in the whole length. This muscle is partly concealed by the preceding, though it is larger and projects on each side. Along its inner border beneath is the flexor brevis pollicis. An insertion into the internal oimer' sesamoid bone is described by Theile. The PLEXOR BREVIS POLLICIS is the largest of the short Flexor muscles of the thumb : it consists of two parts (inner and outer) at the insertion, but these are partly united at the origin. The outer head, the smallest, arises partly be- arises by neath the opponens from about the two outer thirds of heads, the annular ligament, at the lowest part, and from the os magnum. The inner head has a wide origin from the os trapezoides and os magnum, from the sheath of the flexor carpi radialis, and from the bases of the second and third metacarpal bones. The heads are soon blended in one mass ; and this is inserted by two parts into the sides of the base and is n . inserted of the first phalanx of the the thumb,—the inner piece being by two united with the adductor, and the outer with the abductor pollicis. A sesamoid bone is connected with each lateral piece at its insertion. The tendon of the long flexor lies on it is this muscle, and afterwards occupies the interval between its theP m processes of insertion ; and the deep palmar arch comes from beneath the inner head. The abductor pollicis is pointed at the thumb, and Adduc- wide at the opposite end. Its origin is fixed to the lower crosses two thirds of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger, on the third x 4312 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. metacar- anterior aspect; and its insertion is attached, with that of the ' short flexor, to the inner side of the first phalanx of the thumb, joins The cutaneous surface is in contact with the tendons of the short flexor, flexor profundus and their lumbrical muscles ; and the deep deep in surface lies over (in this position) the abductor indicis in thehand. \ r / the first interosseous space, and the second and third meta- carpal bones and the intervening muscles. Two or Short Muscles of the Little Finger. — There are three muscles commonly two muscles in the ball of the little finsrer,—an to little J & ? finger, abductor and an adductor. Sometimes there is a short flexor muscle between the other two. An ab- The abductor minimi digiti is the most internal of the ductor short muscles. It arises from the pisiform bone and the is the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and is inserted into the temai. ulnar side of the base of the first phalanx of the little finger; an offset is sent from it to the extensor tendon on the back of the phalanx. The palmaris brevis partly conceals the muscle. Flexor The flexor brevis minimi digiti appears to be only a brevis is . often ab- part of the abductor. Placed at the radial border of the sent. preceding muscle, it takes origin from the tip of the process of the unciform bone, and slightly from the annular ligament; is on the it is inserted with the abductor into the first phalanx. It lies side of on the adductor ; and near its origin it is separated from the Sing? abductor muscle by the deep branches of the ulnar artery and nerve. oppo- The adductor vel opponens digiti minimi resembles the opponens pollicis in being attached to all the length of the metacarpal bone. Its origin is from the process of the unci- form bone, and from the lower part of the annular ligament is fixed near it: its insertion is fixed into the ulnar margin of the tacarpai metacarpal bone of the little finger. This is partly overlaid is the tyy the preceding muscles; and beneath it the deep branches ternai.n" of the ulnar artery and nerve pass. Dissec. Dissection. — The radial artery comes into the palm of the deep hand between the first two metacarpal bones; and to lay it bare, it will be requisite to detach the inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis at the origin. The deep palmar arch, and the branch of the ulnar nerve that accompanies it, inter, together with their offsets, are to be dissected out. A fascia, muscles, which covers the interossei muscles, is to be removed, whenRADIAL ARTERY AND BRANCHES. 313 the dissector has observed its connection with the transverse ligament uniting the heads of the metacarpal bones. Radial Artery in the Hand. — The radial artery enters Radial the palm of the hand at the first interosseous space, between hand7 m the heads of the abductor indicis muscle; and after furnish- ing one branch to the thumb, and another to the index finger, turns across the hand towards the ulnar side, and thus forms the deep palmar arch. The deep palmar arch extends from the first interosseous forms . deep space to the base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger, arch where it joins the communicating (profunda) branch of the ulnar artery. Its convexity, which is but slight, is directed wMch^ forwards, and its position is more posterior, or nearer the carpal carpal bones, than that of the superficial arch. The arch has a deep position in the hand, and lies on the metacarpal bones and the interossei muscles ; it is covered by the long and be- flexor tendons, and in part by the inner head of the flexor all mus- brevis pollicis. The branches of the deep palmar arch are Branch. the following: — ?rc°h.the a. Recurrent branches pass from the concavity of the arch to the Recur- front of the carpus ; these supply the bones, and anastomose with rent* the other carpal arteries, b. Three perforating arteries pierce the Perfo. interossei muscles, and communicate with the interosseous arteries ratlng# on the back of the hand. c. Usually there are three palmar inter- inter- osseous arteries, which occupy the three inner spaces between the metacarpal bones, and terminate by joining the digital branches of the superficial palmar arch at the clefts of the fingers: these branches supply the interosseous muscles, and vary much in their size and distribution. Branches of the radial artery. —As soon as the radial other " " branches artery enters the hand, it gives off the large artery of the of radial, thumb, and the digital branch of the index finger: — The large artery of the thumb (art. princeps pollicis) runs Digital along the metacarpal bone of the thumb, between the ab- of the ductor indicis and the flexor brevis pollicis, to reach thethumb" interval between the heads of the last muscle, where it divides into the two collateral digital branches of the thumb. The distribution of these is the same as that of the arteries of the superficial arch. The digital branch of the index finger (art. radialis in- Digital dicis) is directed over the abductor indicis, and beneath the the^orel short flexor and the adductor pollicis, to the radial side of finger*314 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. the fore-finger. At the lower border of the abductor indicis this branch is connected by an offset with the superficial arch; and at the end of the finger it unites with the digital branch furnished to the opposite side by the ulnar artery, branch ^ne ^eeP branch of the ulnar nerve accompanies the deep of ulnar palmar arch of the radial artery as far as the muscles of the nerve. A •> thumb, and terminates in branches to the adductor pollicis, the inner head of the short flexor, and the abductor indicis. ter0Cff-~ Branches. — Near its origin the nerve furnishes branches sets- to the muscles of the little finger. In the palm it gives an offset to each palmar and dorsal interosseous muscle, and to each of the two inner lumbrical muscles, besides the terminal branches to the muscles before mentioned, ment of iransverse metacarpal ligament connects together the heads of heads of the metacarpal bones. Its cutaneous surface is metacar- A pai; hollowed where the flexor tendons cross it; and beneath it bones. the interossei muscles pass to their insertion. To the pos- terior border the fascia that covers the interossei muscles is united. This ligament should be taken away to see the interossei muscles. Seven The interossei muscles are so named from their position ossei between the metacarpal bones, and are seven in number. Two muscles occupy each space, except the first, in which there is only one, and they are inserted into the first phalanx divided of each finger. They are divided into palmar and dorsal in- paimar terossei, but all the small muscles are evident in the palm sai. °r~ of the hand, though some project more than the others. Number The palmar muscles are three in number, and are smaller g?n of1" than the dorsal set, although they are most prominent in the palmar pa|m! Undivided at the posterior part, they arise from the palmar surface of the metacarpal bones of the fingers on which they act, viz. those of the fore, ring, and little fingers, and are inserted into the ulnar side of the fore, and the radial side of the other digits, (supposing the hand supine) : attach, their attachments may be kept in mind by considering ments' them adductors of the fingers before mentioned to the middle line of the second. Dorsal The dorsal interossei extend farther back than the palmar set' set, and arise by a double head from the lateral surfaces of the two metacarpal bones, between which they lie. The Number, dorsal muscles are thus allotted to the dibits: two belong toTHE IXTEROSSEI MUSCLES. 315 the middle finger, one is connected with the radial side of the fore, and one with the ulnar side of the ring finger. They may be considered abductors from the middle line of the second finger: thus those attached to the fore and ring ^ch- fingers will draw those digits from the middle one ; and the fnd ac* o o y tion. two muscles that are connected with the middle finger will carry this to the right and left of a line passing through its centre. The first muscle of this set is noticed separately below, under the name abductor indicis. Both sets of muscles have a similar termination: — the Com: mon m- fibres end in a tendon, which is inserted into the side of the s^ioin 7 t of both first or metacarpal phalanx, and sends an expansion to join sets, the aponeurotic covering of that bone. The abductor indicis, or the first dorsal interosseous First dorsal muscle, arises from nearly the whole of the metacarpal bone mteros- of the index finger, and from the upper half of that of the thumb; and is inserted into the radial side of the first phalanx of the fore-finger. By the palmar surface the is a large muscle is in contact with the adductor and flexor brevis muscle pollicis; and by the opposite surface it is subcutaneous. P®tr^"by The radial artery perforates it to enter the palm. radial J 1 1 artery. Dissection.—The attachments of the annular ligament to Dissec- the carpal bones on each side may next be dissected out. To define the ligament the small muscles of the thumb and little finger must be taken from it. Before reading the description of this structure, the ends of the cut ligament should be placed in apposition. The anterior annular ligament is a firm ligamentous band Annular that arches over the flexor tendons of the fingers. It is of front' attached externally to the front of the os scaphoides, and to of wrist" the ridge of the os trapezium, and internally to the unciform and pisiform bones. By its upper border it is connected with the aponeurosis of the fore-arm, and by its lower border with the palmar fascia. On the cutaneous surface lie the palmaris longus and the ulnar artery and nerve. Dissection.—Next follow the tendon of the flexor carpi Dissec- radialis to its insertion, and dissect oat more fully thetl0U' attachment of the biceps and brachialis anticus muscles to the bones of the fore-arm. The tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, in passing from insertion the fore-arm to the hand, lies in the groove in the os tra- don of316 DISSECTION OF THE FORE-ARM. flexor pezium, between the attachments of the annular ligament radiaiis. to the bone, but outside the arch of that ligament: here it is bound down by a fibrous sheath, lined by a synovial mem- brane. The tendon is inserted into the base of the meta- carpal bones of the index and middle fingers, insertion The insertion of the brachialis anticus takes place by a of bra- J . chiaiis broad, thick tendon, about an inch in extent, which is fixed anticus. into the anterior part of the coronoid process of the ulna, inser- Insertion of the biceps. — The tendon of the biceps is tionof • . the inserted into the inner part of the tubercle of the radius, and biceps tendon, into the bone behind it. A bursa is found between it and the bone. Near its attachment the tendon changes the direction of its surfaces; the anterior surface becoming external, and vice versa. The supinator brevis muscle partly surrounds the insertion. Section VI. THE BACK OF THE FORE-ARM. Position. — During the dissection of the back of the fore- arm, the limb lies with the fore part down, and a small block is to be placed beneath the wrist for the purpose of stretching the tendons. Take Dissection. — The fascia with the cutaneous nerves and superfi-6 vessels are to be reflected from the muscles of the fore-arm, seis and and from the tendons on the back of the hand ; but a thick- fascia, ened band of it (posterior annular ligament), opposite the carpus, is to be left. If the integument has not been taken from the fingers, let the dissector proceed to remove it, in order that the tendons may be traced to the ends of the fingers. The several muscles should be separated from one another up to their origin, especially the radial extensors of the wrist. Annular The posterior annular ligament consists of the special ligament x , . , L behind aponeurosis of the limb, thickened by the addition of some wrist, transverse fibres, and is situate opposite the lower ends of the bones of the fore-arm. This ligamentous band is con- nected at the outer part to the radius, and at the inner to the cuneiform and pisiform bones. It confines the extensor317 MUSCLES OF THE BACK OF THE FORE-ABM. tendons, and sends downwards processes, which are fixed to the bones, forming sheaths for those tendons. The ligament will be subsequently examined more in detail. Muscles of the back of the fore-arm. — The muscles two^^ are arranged in a superficial and a deep layer, like those of muscles, the front of the fore-arm. The superficial layer is composed superfi- of seven muscles, which arise mostly by a common tendon from the outer condyle of the humerus, and have the under- viz. mentioned position one to another. Proceeding from without inwards, the student will find in succession the long supinator, two radial extensors of the wrist (long and short), the common extensor of the fingers, the extensor of the little finger, and lastly the ulnar extensor of the wrist. There is one other small muscle near the elbow, the anconeus. The supinator radii longus is contained partly in the Supi- ,. . t nator arm and partly m the tore-arm, and limits, on the outer longus side, the hollow in front of the elbow. The muscle CLVIS6S arises from the upper two thirds of the outer condyloid ridge of the humerus humerus, and from the front of the external intermuscular septum. The fleshy fibres end, above the middle of the fore- arm, in a tendon, by means of which the muscle is inserted and is in- into the lower end of the radius above the styloid process. In into the arm the margins of the supinator are directed from the fascia to the bone, but in the fore-arm the muscle is flattened over the others, and its edges have an opposite direction, viz. from before backwards. Near its insertion the supi- is super- nator is covered by two extensors of the thumb. Along its and ' inner border, below the elbow, is the radial artery; and part of above the joint, it is in contact with the brachialis anticus. in front Beneath this muscle are found the extensors of the wrist, the elbow, radial nerve, and the radius. The EXTENSOR CARPI RADIALIS LONGIOR arises from the Exten- sor carpi lower third of the outer condyloid ridge of the humerus, and longus J ° 7 is nearly from the front of the contiguous intermuscular septum, as long or asthe The muscle descends on the short radial extensor; and its prece- ding. tendon passes beneath the extensors of the thumb, and through the annular ligament, to be inserted into the base of inser- the metacarpal bone of the index finger. Along its outer border is the radial nerve. The EXTENSOR CARPI RADIALIS BREVIOR is attached tO the Exten. orbicular ligament of the radius, and to the outer condyle of brevisDISSECTION OF THE FORE-ARM. 318 is con- the humerus, by a tendon common to it and the three follow- tained in the fore- ing muscles, viz. the common extensor of the fingers, the arm. ° a extensor of the little finger, and the ulnar extensor of the wrist: it also takes origin from aponeuroses on its under and inner sides. The tendon of the muscle is closely con- nected with the preceding, and after passing with it through Son*" same compartment of the annular ligament, is inserted tacarpai" *n*° kase °^ tne m^tacarpal bone of the middle finger. bone. Concealed by the two preceding muscles, this extensor rests on the radius and on some of the muscles attached to it; Has a that is to say, on the supinator brevis, the pronator teres, common J 7 t L t m A ongin and the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. Along the inner three side is the common extensor of the fingers, and the extensors follow- fog. of the thumb come between the two. Both the radial extensors of the carpus have usually a bursa at their inser- tion. Common The extensor communis digitorum is single at its origin, extensor ... muscle, but is divided inferiorly into four tendons. It arises from thefore" the common tendon, from aponeurotic septa between it and arm* the muscles around, and from the aponeurosis of the limb. Near the lower part of the fore-arm the muscle ends in three tendons, which pass through a compartment of the annular ligament with the indicator muscle. Escaping from the ligament, the most internal tendon divides into two, and all four are directed along the back of the hand to their insertion into the two last phalanges of the fingers, inser- On the back of the fingers the tendons have the following the ten- disposition : — Opposite the metacarpophalangeal articula- intothe tion each tendon sends down lateral bands to join the cap- langes. sule ; and on the dorsum of the first phalanx it forms an expansion with the tendons of the lumbricales and inter- ossei muscles. At the anterior part of the first phalanx this tendinous expansion is divided into three parts: the central one is fixed into the base of the second phalanx, whilst the lateral pieces unite at the front of the same pha- lanx, and are inserted into the last. On the fore and little -fingers the expansion is joined by the special tendons of those digits. connec- This muscle is placed between the extensors of the wrist the m°ufs- and little finger, and conceals the deep extensors. The cle' tendon of the ring finger is united by an oblique band with319 EXTENSORS OF THE FINGERS. each collateral tendon, so as to prevent the raising of that finger if the other fingers are closed. The EXTENSOR MINIMI DIGITI is the mOSt slender muscle On Exten- sor of the back of the fore-arm. and appears to be but a part of the little .... . n finger. common extensor. Its origin is in common with that of common the extensor communis, but it passes through a distinctongm sheath of the annular ligament; and its tendon, which is split into two directly afterwards, ends by joining the com- andter- mon expansion on the first phalanx of the little finger. tion. The EXTENSOR CARPI ULNARIS MUSCLE arises from the Exten- sor carpi common tendon and from the aponeurosis of the fore-arm; uinaris. it is also firmly fixed by the fascia to the posterior border of the ulna below the anconeus muscle (about the middle third). The tendon of the muscle becomes free from fleshy origin, fibres near the annular ligament, and passes through a sepa- rate sheath in that structure to be inserted into the base of inser- the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Beneath this extensor are some of the muscles of the deep layer with part ™°^alin~ of the ulna. On the outer side is the extensor of the little muscle, finger. The anconeus is a small triangular muscle near the Anco- elbow joint, which arises from the outer condyle of the humerus by a tendon distinct from, and posterior to the a dis- common tendon of origin of the other muscles. From this origin origin the fibres diverge to their insertion into the outer and in- side of the olecranon, and into the impression on the upper sertl0n' third of the posterior surface of the ulna. The upper iSCiose fibres are nearly transverse, and are contiguous to the lowest [deeps, of the triceps muscle ; and beneath the anconeus are the supinator brevis muscle and the recurrent interosseous vessels. Dissection. — For the display of the deep muscles of the Dissec- back of the fore-arm, and the posterior interosseous artery deep and nerve, some of the superficial muscles, viz. the extensor muscles communis, extensor minimi digiti, and extensor carpi uinaris must be detached from their origin, and turned aside: some small branches of the nerve and artery, which will be seen entering the muscles, may be divided. The cellular mem- brane is then to be removed from the muscles, and from the ramifications of the artery and nerve; and a slender part of and in- the nerve, that sinks beneath one muscle (extensor of the seousDISSECTION OF THE FORE-ARM. 320 and second phalanx of the thumb), about the middle of the fore- nerve, arm, should be carefully dissected. The separation of the muscles should be made, but that between the small muscles of the thumb, especially between the two highest, is not always very distinct. Five Deep layer of muscles. — In this layer there are five in the small muscles, viz. one supinator of the fore-arm, and four layer, special extensor muscles of the thumb and fore-finger. The highest muscle, that partly surrounds the upper end of the radius, is the supinator brevis. Below this are the three extensors of the thumb in the following order — one of the metacarpal bone, one of the first, and one of the second pha- lanx. On the ulna the indicator muscle is placed. Exten- The EXTENSOR OSSIS METACARPI POLLICIS (abductor pollicis tacarpi longus) is the largest and highest of the extensor muscles of has a the thumb, and is sometimes united with the supinator wide 1 attach, brevis, below which it lies. It arises from the posterior surfaces of the radius and ulna, about three inches from each, and from the intervening interosseous membrane. The tendon of the muscle is directed outwards over the radial extensors of the wrist, and through the outer compart- inser- ment in the annular ligament, to be inserted into the base of tion.; to ' the metacarpal bone of the thumb. The muscle is at first The ^ concealed by the common extensor of the fingers ; but it be- at first ^ comes cutaneous between the last muscle and the extensors of the wrist, about two inches above the end of the radius, after- Opposite the carpus the radial artery winds backwards super- beneath its tendon. The ulnar origin is higher than the radial, and begins close below the attachment of the an- coneus : between the contiguous borders of this muscle and the supinator brevis, the posterior interosseous artery appears. Exten- The EXTENSOR PRIMI INTERNODII POLLICIS is the Smallest first°pha- muscle of the deep layer, and its tendon is closely connected thumbf with that of the preceding extensor. Its origin is about two inches in extent—one from the radius, and one from the has a interosseous membrane, — close below the attachment of the origin, preceding muscle. Its fibres end in a tendon, which passes with pre-through the same space in the annular ligament as the inserf extensor of the metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the tion into metacarpal end of the first phalanx of the thumb. With thumb.EXTENSORS OF THE THUMB. 321 respect to surrounding parts, this muscle has the same con- nections as the previous one. The EXTENSOR SECUNDI INTERNODII POLLICIS Varies in the Exten. sor of extent of its bony attachment. It may be said to arise from second o i»i phalanx the middle third of the ulna, for about three inches, and lies aione in the from the interosseous membrane below, for one inch; but annular oftentimes it may be connected with the three middle fifths ment. of the ulna. Its tendon of insertion, after passing through a sheath in the annular ligament, distinct from that of the other two extensor muscles, is directed along the dorsum of the thumb to be fixed to the base of the last phalanx. It is inser- tion. covered by the same muscles as the other extensors of the thumb, but it becomes superficial nearer the lower end of is lower the radius. Below the annular ligament its tendon crosses preced- the radial artery, and the tendons of the extensors of the mg wrist. The extensor indicis (indicator muscle) arises from the Indi- v J cator ulna, for three or four inches, usually below its middle, muscle, though the attachment may be carried upwards beyond the middle of the bone. Near the annular ligament the tendon Origin, becomes free from muscular fibres, and passing through the it is aP- ligament with the common extensor of the fingers, is applied common to the external tendon of that muscle, and becomes blended sor,en" with it in the expansion on the first phalanx of the fore- seated" finger. Until this muscle has passed the ligament it iswlth ifc- covered by the superficial layer, but afterwards it is sub- fascial. Dissection, — To lay bare the supinator brevis, it will be Dissec- r ' tion of necessary to detach the anconeus from the external condyle sup*- f nator ot the humerus, and to cut through the supinator longus and brevis. the radial extensors of the wrist. After those muscles have been divided, its fibres are to be followed forwards to their insertion into the radius ; and that part of the origin of the flexor profundus digitorum, which lies on the outer side of the insertion of the brachialis anticus, is to be removed. The supinator brevis arises from the orbicular ligament Origin of the radius and from the external lateral ligament of the ^pin?- elbow joint; from a depression below the small sigmoidt0r; cavity of the ulna; and from the external margin of the ulna for about two inches. From this origin the fibres pass outwards, and are inserted into the outer surface of the and in. Y322 DISSECTION OF THE FORE-ARM. sertion upper third of the radius, reaching downwards to the inser- radius. tion of the pronator teres, and forwards to the tubercle and Oyer- the oblique line. This supinator is altogether concealed at 1>mg the posterior and external aspects of the limb by the muscles of the superficial layer ; and anteriorly the radial artery and and con- nerve lie over it. The lower border is contiguous to the tiguous . . . parts, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, only the posterior inter- osseous artery intervening. Through the substance of the muscle the posterior interosseous nerve winds to the back of the limb. The upper third of the radius is surrounded by the fleshy fibres of the muscle, except at the tubercle and along a slip of bone, beneath it, for about an inch and a half. Poste- The posterior interosseous artery is an offset from the teros.n" common interosseous trunk (p. 300.), and reaches the back artery of the fore-arm above the ligament between the bones. Passing between the contiguous borders of the supinator brevis and the extensor ossis metacarpi, the artery descends is be- between the superficial and deep layer of muscles nearly to theetwoi the wrist, where it ends by anastomosing with the carpal muscled and anterior interosseous arteries. It furnishes many mus- cular offsets, and the following recurrent branch : — its re. The recurrent branch springs from the artery near its branch! commencement, and ascends through some fibres of the supinator, but beneath the anconeus, to supply the elbow joint, and to anastomose with a long branch of the superior profunda artery in the last named muscle, interos- The posterior interosseous nerve takes its origin from the nervl musculo-spiral trunk in front of the outer condyle of the humerus, and winds backwards through the fibres of the Position supinator brevis. Escaped from the supinator, the nerve is de?us" placed between the superficial and deep layers of the muscles as far as the middle of the fore-arm. Much reduced in size at that spot, it sinks beneath the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb, and runs on the interosseous mem- Termi- brane to the back of the carpus. Finally, the nerve en- o^back larges beneath the tendons of the extensor communis digi- tus, torum, and terminates in filaments to the ligaments and the articulations of the carpus. Its mus- Branches.— This nerve furnishes branches to all the &"tsa.r °ff" muscles of the deep layer; and to those of the superficialRADIAL ARTERY AT THE WRIST. 323 layer, with the exception of three, viz. the anconeus, the supinator longus, and the extensor carpi radialis longior. Radial Artery at the Wrist. — At the wrist the radial ^eryon artery winds below the end of the radius to the back of the ^tof carpus, and enters the palm of the hand at the first inter- osseous space, between the heads of origin of the first dorsal interosseous muscle. At first the vessel lies deeply on the Connec- 1 J tions external lateral ligament of the wrist joint, and is beneath with: the tendons of the extensors of the metacarpal bone and first around, phalanx of the thumb ; but afterwards it is more superficial, and is crossed by the tendon of the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb. Offsets of the external cutaneous nerve entwine around the artery. Its branches are nume- Branch- rous, but inconsiderable in size. small! a. The dorsal carpal branch passes transversely beneath the To back extensor tendons, and forms an arch with the corresponding offset pus. of the ulnar artery. From this arch branches descend to the third and fourth interosseous spaces, and constitute the dorsal interosseous arteries. • b. The metacarpal or first dorsal interosseous branch reaches the Meta- ■* ^ , ■ carpal space between the second and third metacarpal bones, and anas- branch, tomoses, like the corresponding arteries of the other spaces, with a perforating branch of the deep palmar arch. Finally, it is con- tinued to the cleft of the fingers, where it ends by joining the digital artery of the superficial palmar arch, and giving small dorsal branches to the index and middle fingers. c. Two small dorsal arteries of the thumb arise opposite the me- Dorsal tacarpal bone, along which they extend, one on each border, to be of the distributed on its posterior aspect. thumb d. The dorsal branch of the index finger is distributed on the and fore- radial edge of the metacarpal bone of that digit. finger. The different compartments of the annular ligament may sheaths, now be more completely seen, by dividing the sheaths of the annular ligament over the different tendons passing beneath. There merit are are six different spaces, which are lubricated by synovial x' membranes. The most external one lodges the two first position extensors of the thumb; the next is a large hollow for the without two radial extensors of the wrist; and a very small spacelnwards- for the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb follows on the ulnar side. Still to the inner side is the common sheath for the extensor of the fingers, and that of the fore- finger ; and there is a separate internal compartment for the y 2DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 324 extensor of the little finger. Internal to all is the space for Bones the extensor carpi ulnaris. The last muscle grooves the bJ°t°hVeed ulna; but all the others, with the exception of the extensor minimi digiti which is between the bones, lie in hollows in the radius in the order mentioned above. To see Dissection.—If the supinator brevis be divided by a ver- torbre- tical incision, and raised from the radius, its attachment will vis, be better seen. interos- The posterior interosseous nerve, and the offsets from its nerve, gangliform enlargement, may be more completely traced after the tendons of the extensor of the fingers and the indi- cator muscle have been cut at the wrist, and in- The dorsal aspect of the posterior interossei muscles of the terossei A 1 muscles, hand may be cleaned, so that their double origin, and their tendon of insertion into the side and dorsum of the pha- langes may be observed. Appearing between the heads of origin of these muscles are the posterior perforating arteries. Section VII. LIGAMENTS OF THE ELBOW, WRfST, AND HAND. Direc- Directions.—The ligaments of the remaining articulations of the limb may be examined at once if they are still moist, but should any of them have become dry, these must be softened with a wet cloth whilst the others are learnt. Dissec- Dissection. — To make the necessary dissection of the the ligaments of the elbow joint, the brachialis anticus must be joint. taken away from the front, and the triceps from the back of the joint; the muscles connected with the outer and inner condyles, as well as the supinator brevis and the flexor profundus, are to be removed. By means of a little cleaning, the four ligaments—anterior, posterior, and two lateral — will come into view. The interosseous membrane, between the bones of the fore-arm, will be prepared by the removal of the muscles on both the anterior and posterior aspects. Bones The Elbow Joint. — In this articulation the lower end forming tl?e of the humerus is received into the hollow of the ulna, so as elbow joint. t0 produce a hinge-like arrangement; and the upper end of Theiiga-the radius assists to form part of the joint. Where theLIGAMENTS OF THE ELBOW. 325 bones touch, the surfaces are covered with cartilage, and ments their articular ends are kept in place by the following liga- ments : — The external lateral ligament is a roundish fasciculus, ^©mal which is attached by its upper part to the outer condyle of the humerus, and by its lower part to the orbicular ligament around the head of the radius. A few of the posterior fibres pass backwards to the upper portion of the external margin of the ulna. The internal lateral ligament is triangular in shape : it is Jjj^™1 pointed at its upper extremity, and is connected to the inner wide- condyle of the humerus. The fibres diverge as they descend, and are inserted in this way: — The anterior which are the inferior J . attach - strongest, are fixed to the inner edge of the coronoid pro- ments. cess; the posterior are attached to the inner side of the olecranon; whilst the middle fibres join a transverse liga- mentous band over the notch between the olecranon and the a notch coronoid process. The ulnar nerve is in contact with this side of ligament; and some vessels enter the joint by an aperture beneath the transverse band. The anterior ligament is thin, and its fibres are separated Anterior ■ . . ligament by masses of fat lodged in intervals between them. By its is thin, upper margin the ligament is inserted into the front of the humerus, and by its lower margin into the anterior part of the coronoid process and the orbicular ligament. The bra- chialis anticus muscle covers it. The posterior ligament is thinner than the anterior, and is ^oste- ' completely covered by the triceps muscle. Superiorly it is m^eist attached to the humerus above the fossa for the olecranon, and inferiorly it is inserted into the olecranon. Some few fibres are transverse between the margins of the fossa before mentioned. Dissection. — Open the joint by an incision across the Dissec- front, near the humerus, and disarticulate the bones, in order that the form of the articular surfaces may be seen. The synovial membrane lines the joint, and can be traced ^™vial from one bone to another along the inner surface of the con- orane. necting ligaments. It projects between the head of the radius and the orbicular ligament, and serves for the articu- lation of the head of that bone with the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna.DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 326 Lower Articular surfaces of the bones.—The humerus presents the hu- inferiorly two distinct articular surfaces for the bones of the Onenu- fore-arm. The one for the radius is on the outer side, and radius^ consists of a rounded eminence (capitellum) on the front of the bone, which is covered with cartilage only on the an- terior aspect: between it and the surface that corresponds to for°ther tne u*na *s a s^ghfc hollow. The surface in contact with the ulna; uina is limited internally and externally by a prominent ridge, and is hollowed out in the centre like a pulley (trochlea): the external ridge corresponds to the interval also for between the heads of the radius and ulna. On the front of coronoid . . _ . process, the humerus, above the articular surface, is a depression that receives the coronoid process during flexure of the joint; and oie- and on the posterior aspect is a large fossa for the reception of the olecranon in extension of the fore-arm. End of On the end of the ulna there is a large excavation named the ulna. sigmoid cavity, which is narrow in the centre, but expanded in front and behind. A slightly raised line extends from front to back through the cavity, and is received into the hollow of the trochlea of the humerus, in the motions of the joint. End of The end of the radius presents a circular depression, with radius, a raised margin. It touches the humerus only in the bent state of the joint; in that state the depression of the radius is fitted on the eminence of the humerus, and the bone is thus supported during rotation of the limb. Radius Union of the Eadius and Ulna— The radius is con- to uina. nected with the ulna, both at the upper and lower ends, by means of distinct ligaments and a synovial membrane; and the shafts of the bones are further united by an interosseous ligament. At the Upper radio-ulnar articulation.—In this joint the head end by °f tne radius is received into the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna, and is kept in place by the following ligamentous band:—■ orbicu- The annular or orbicular ligament is a strong fasciculus mentga of fibres, about a quarter of an inch wide, which is placed over the prominence of the head of the radius, and is attached to the anterior and posterior edges of the small around sigmoid cavity of the ulna. Its upper border is connected of the with the ligaments of the elbow joint; but the lower is free> bone,327 LIGAMENTS OF RADIUS AND ULNA. and is applied around the neck of the radius. The radius moves freely in the socket formed by the ligament and the cavity of the ulna. The synovial membrane is a prolongation of that lining ™**y- the elbow joint; it projects between the neck of the radius rem- and the lower margin of the annular ligament. Shafts of the bones. — The aponeurotic stratum connect-Union ing together the bones in nearly their whole length consists shafts, of the two following parts: — The interosseous inembrane is a thin fibrous layer, which ?n?edsins is attached to the contiguous margins of the radius and ulna, JJjfddIe and forms an incomplete septum between the muscles on the J)£S^J" front and back of the fore-arm. Superiorly the membrane ™^ is wanting for a considerable space, and through the interval the posterior interosseous vessels pass backwards. Some ™cs^nt small apertures exist in it for the passage of vessels; and aDOve- the largest of these is about two inches from the lower margin, through which the anterior interosseous artery turns to the back of the wrist. The membrane gives attachment to the deep muscles. Most of its fibres are directed obliquely inwards towards the ulna, though a few on the posterior surface have an opposite direction. The round ligament is a slender band above the inter- by round osseous membrane, whose fibres have a direction opposite to ment. those of the membrane. By one end it is fixed to the front of the coronoid process, and by the other it is inserted into the radius below the tubercle. This ligament divides the space above the interosseous membrane into two parts. Oftentimes this band is not to be recognised. The lower radio-ulnar articulation cannot be well seen The . . . lower till after the examination of the wrist ioint. end TV ... after- Dissection. — To see the ligaments of the wrist joint, the Dissec- tendons and the annular ligaments must be removed from tlon' both its front and back; and the cellular membrane and the small vessels must be cleaned away carefully from the surface of the ligaments. The Wrist Joint. — The lower end of the radius and Bones a"U n n • forming the first row of the carpal bones enter into the wrist joint; wrist and four ligaments maintain the osseous surfaces in contact, viz. anterior and posterior, and two lateral. The ulna is united y 4 by*DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 328 shut out from this articulation by means of a piece of fibro- cartilage. external The external lateral ligament is a short and strong band, lateral, ^aj. intervenes between the styloid process of the radius and the upper part of the scaphoid bone, internal The internal lateral ligament is smaller than the external, but is longer than it. It is attached by one end to the sty- loid process of the ulna, and by the other to the rough, upper part of the cuneiform bone. Some of the anterior fibres are continued to the pisiform bone, anterior The anterior ligament takes origin from the end of the and radius, and is inserted into the anterior surface of the first row of carpal bones, except the os pisiforme. post*- The posterior ligament is membranous, like the anterior, ment!ga" and its fibres are directed downwards and inwards. Supe- riorly it is attached to the lower end of the radius, and in- feriorly it is fixed, after the manner of the anterior ligament, to the first row of carpal bones, on the posterior aspect. Dissec- Dissection. — To see the form of the articulating surfaces, the joint may be opened by a transverse incision through the posterior ligament, near the bones of the carpus, surface Articular surfaces. — The end of the radius, and the fibro- dius. cartilage uniting it with the ulna, form an arch for the re- ception of the carpal bones; and the surface of the radius is divided by a prominent line into an external triangular, of first and an internal square impression. The three bones of the caJpaf first carpal row constitute a convex eminence, which is re- bones. cejve(j jn{0 the hollow before mentioned, and the different surfaces of both touch in this way;—the scaphoid bone cor- responds to the external mark of the radius, the semilunar bone to the square impression, and the cuneiform bone is in contact with the triangular fibro-cartilage. synovial The synovial membrane has the arrangement common to simple joints. This joint sometimes communicates with the lower radio-ulnar articulation, by means of an aperture in the fibro-cartilage separating the two. Lower^ Lower Radio-ulnar Articulation.-—In this articula- radius tion the convexity of the end of the ulna is received into a and ulna . joined by concavity on the radius;—an arrangement just the opposite to that which exists between the upper ends of the bones. The chief bond of union between the bones is a strong fibro-329 LIGAMENTS OF THE WRIST. cartilage ; but a kind of capsule, consisting of scattered capsule, fibres, surrounds loosely the end of the ulna. The triangular fibro-cartilage is placed transversely be- tmn- neath the end of the ulna, and is thickest at its margins and fioro- carti- apex. By its base the cartilage is fixed to the ridge which lage. separates the carpal from the ulnar articulating surface of Attach- the radius; and by its apex, to the depression at the root of the styloid process of the ulna. Its margins are united with andcon- J % . nections. the contiguous anterior and posterior ligaments of the wrist joint; and its surfaces enter into the construction of different joints, viz. those of the wrist and lower radio-ulnar articula- tion. Occasionally it is perforated by an aperture. The synovial membrane (membrana sacciformis) is very synovial loose, from which circumstance it has received its name, and brane. ascends between the radius and the ulna: it is separated from that of the wrist-joint by the triangular fibro-car- tilage. Dissection, — The articulation of the carpal bones will be Dissec- prepared by taking away all the tendons from the hand, and carpal, cleaning carefully the surface of the connecting ligamen- tous bands. To the pisiform bone there are distinct liga- ments. At the same time, the ligamentous bands uniting the meta- and me- carpal with the carpal bones, and with one another, should be joint?.*11 dissected. Union of the Carpal Bones.—The several bones of the Bones are carpus are united into two rows by dorsal, palmar and inter- joined r into two osseous bands; and the two rows are connected one to ano- rows, ther by separate ligaments. Bones of the first row. — The os semilunare is united How to the contiguous bones, viz. the scaphoid and cuneiform, is form- by a dorsal and a palmar transverse band, as well as by a strong interosseous ligament to each. The pisiform bone is separate articulated to the front of the cuneiform bone by a distinct mersts of capsule and a synovial membrane ; it has further two special bone°.m ligaments;—one of these is attached to the process of the unciform bone, and the other to the base of the fifth meta- carpal bone. The bones of the second row are connected together in the Second same way as those of the first row, viz. by a dorsal and a like first. palmar band of fibres from one bone to another. BetweenDISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 330 the os magnum and the bone on each side, viz. the unciform and trapezoid, in an interosseous ligament. The two One row with another.—The two rows of carpal bones rows are 1 joined by are connected by an anterior and posterior, and two lateral ligaments. anterior, ^he interior ligament consists of irregular fibres, and intervenes between the two rows on the palmar aspect. The So?6" Posier^or ligament, which is stronger, and the greater num- ber of whose fibres are transverse, has a corresponding ?nd attachment on the dorsal aspect of the bones. Of the lateral lateral , L i»ga-: ligaments, the external is the best marked, and extends be- ments. 7 7 tween the os trapezium and the scaphoid bone; whilst the internal ligament passes between the cuneiform and unciform bones. Dissec- Dissection.—After the division of the lateral and poste- rior ligaments, the one row of bones may be separated from the other, so as to allow the articular surfaces to be seen. surface Articular surfaces.— The first row of carpal bones forms of each J A row in an arch, whose hollow is turned towards the other. In the contact. 7 second row, the os magnum and os unciforme present a con- dyloid projection, which is received into the arch before mentioned: whilst the two outer bones are much below the level of the others and form a slight hollow for the reception of the scaphoid bone. °onvyy- One synovial membrane serves for the articulation of all brine for iae carpal bones, except that of the pisiform with the carpal cuneiform bone. Lining the joint between the two rows of bones, the carpUSj the membrane sends upwards and downwards prolongations between the individual bones. The offsets upwards are two, and sometimes they join the synovial mem- fnner°ur brane of the wrist joint; but the offsets in the opposite di- carpai rection are three, and may be continued to all or only some of the articulations between the four inner metacarpal with their carpal bones, ctrpti Union of the Metacarpal Bones. — The metacarpal joinedare bones of the four fingers are connected at their bases by the bases*' following ligaments : — Superficial dorsal and palmar fasci- culi of fibres pass transversely from one bone to that next it; and those in the palm are the strongest. Besides, there are short interosseous bands between the contiguous rough surfaces of the bones.LIGAMENTS OF THE HAND. 331 At their anterior extremities the same metacarpal bones and by their are bound together by the transverse ligament, which has heads. ; been examined in the dissection of the hand (p, 314.). Union between the Metacarpal and Carpal Bones. Joint between — The metacarpal bones of the fingers are articulated with carpal 1 ° and rae- the carpal bones after one plan, and have usually the com- j^pai mon synovial membrane of the carpal bones ; but the joint formed between the fourth and fifth with the unciform bone, is sometimes provided with a separate synovial sac. The bone of the thumb has a separate capsule, and there is an additional synovial membrane. a. The metacarpal bone of the thumb articulates with the gjj*of os trapezium, and the ends of the bones are encased in a thumb s separate articular ligament. The joint is supplied with a synovial membrane, which is simple in its arrangement. b. The metacarpal bones of the fingers receive longitu- those of dinal bands from the carpal bones on both aspects, thus : — fingers The dorsal ligaments are two to each of the four, except through that of the little finger. The bands to the metacarpal bone of the fore-finger come from the os trapezium and os trape- zoides ; those to the third bone are from the os magnum and os trapezoides ; those to the bone of the ring finger from the os magnum and os unciforme ; and to the fifth metacarpal bone there is but one band from the unciform bone. The and palmar ligaments are weaker and less constant than the dor- bands, sal. There is one to each metacarpal bone, except that of the little finger: they may be oblique in direction and a band may be divided between two bones, as in the case of the ligament that is attached to the os trapezium and the second and third metacarpals. Sometimes one or more may be wanting. On the ulnar side of the metacarpal bone of the middle Lateral finger is a longitudinal or lateral band, which is attached above to the os magnum and os unciforme, and below to the rough ulnar side of the base of the above mentioned meta- carpal bone. Sometimes this band isolates the articulation of the two last metacarpals with the unciform bone from the remaining carpo-metacarpal joints : but more frequently it is divided into two parts, and does not separate those joints. This band may be seen by opening the articulation be- HowDISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 332 tween the unciform and the last two metacarpal bones; and then cutting through, with care, the transverse ligaments joining the third and fourth bones, so as to allow the separa- tion of the fourth from the third metacarpal. Dissec- Dissection.—The articulating surfaces of the bones in the carpo-metacarpal articulation will be seen by cutting through the rest of the ligaments on the posterior aspect of the hand. Surface Articular surfaces.—The metacarpal bone of the fore- ends of finger presents a hollowed articular surface, which receives banes, the prominence of the os trapezoides, and articulates late- rally with the os trapezium and os magnum. That of the middle finger articulates with the os magnum. But the metacarpal bones of the ring and little finger are opposed to the unciform bone, and do not reach so far back as the other two. inter. Interosseous ligaments. — The interosseous ligaments be- i4Sa-0US tween the bases of the metacarpal bones may be demonstrated meta- by detaching one bone from another. On forcibly separating bones! the carpal bones, their strong interosseous ligaments will also carpal, appear, viz. one on each side of the os semilunare in the first row, and on each side of the os magnum in the second row. side Lateral union.—Where the metacarpal bones touch they union* ii • are covered by articular cartilage, and the surfaces are fur- nished with prolongations of the same synovial membrane, that serves for their articulation with the carpus. Dissec- Dissection.—For the examination of the joint between the fingerf head of the metacarpal bone and the first phalanx of the jomts. £ngerj fa wj]i foe requisite that the tendons and the tendinous expansion around it should be cleared away. A lateral ligament on each side, and an inferior thick band are to be defined. Another joint may be opened to see the articular surfaces. The same dissection may be made for the articulations between the phalanges of the finger. Meta- Union between the Metacarpal Bones and the First banes Phalanges. — In these joints the convex head of the meta- pha- carpal bone is received into the glenoid fossa of the phalanx, langes, an(j ^ ^ are retaine(j jn contact by the extensor and flexor tendons, and by the following ligaments : — Lateral The lateral ligaments are the same on both sides of the ments. joint. Each is triangular in form ; it is attached by itsLIGAMENTS OF THE FINGERS. 333 upper part to the tubercle on the side of the head of the metacarpal bone, and ends below by being inserted into the side of the phalanx, and into the inferior ligament. The inferior ligament is a longitudinal band, which is fixed inferior firmly to the phalanx, but loosely to the metacarpal bone. It ment. is fibrocartilaginous in substance, and is grooved for the flexor tendon: to its sides the lateral ligaments are attached. Covering the upper part of the joint is the extensor tendon, which takes the place of a superior ligament, and sends down an expansion on each side. The synovial membrane is a synovial A mem- simple sac, which lines the joint. fcrane. In the articulation of the thumb two sesamoid bones are Joint of i t n thumb. connected with the inferior ligament, and receive most of the fibres of the lateral ligaments. Union of the Phalanges. — The ligaments of the first J,°intsof ° the pha- joint are the same as those in the metacarpo-phalangeal arti- j^|es culation, viz. two lateral and an inferior. The lateral ligaments are triangular in form ; each is con- J^ral nected by its apex to the side of the phalanx near the an- terior part, and by its base, to the inferior ligament. The inferior inferior ligament has the same mode of attachment between ment. the extremities of the bones as in the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, but it is not so strong as in that articulation. There is a simple synovial membrane present in the joint. The articulation of the second with the last phalanx is like the preceding joint, both in the number and disposition of its ligaments, and in the surfaces of the bones ; but all the articular parts are much less strongly marked. Articular Surfaces. — The anterior end of each phalanx surface is marked by a pulley-like surface. The posterior end of the bones, phalanx presents a transversely hollowed fossa, and is pro- vided with a crest, which fits into the central depression of the opposite articular surface in the movements of the joint.334 CHIEF ARTERIES OF THE UPPER LIMB. TABLE OF THE CHIEF ARTERIES OF THE UPPER LIMB. The 'sub- clavian is continued in the arm by (-Superior thoracic acromial thoracic - long thoracic 5Muscular inferior acromial humeral thoracic. Li£5"M alar thoracic 2. brachial artery tery subscapular - (" Dorsal artery t muscular. anterior circumflex posterior circumflex. To coraco-brachialis superior profunda - nutritious ( Muscular to triceps < and anconeus ( anastomotic. < inferior profunda ("Muscular to triceps t anastomotic. anastomotic muscular. ^Recurrent muscular superficial volar posterior carpal anterior carpal « metacarpal dorsal of the thumb of the index finger princeps pollicis radialis indicis ^deep arch - ( Recurrent J perforating j interosseous (.communicating. ^Anterior recurrent posterior recurrent 4. ulnar ar- tery 5Anterior posterior muscular dorsal of the hand, or meta- carpal - - - anterior carpal ^superficial arch C Infra-sca- ' I pular. ("Nutritious 'X muscular. ("Recurrent -1 muscular. r Dorsal carpal I metacarpal or interosseous. ( Communicating 1 four digital branches *\ cutaneous ( muscular.335 SPINAL NERVES OF THE UPPER LIMB. TABLE OF THE SPINAL NERVES OF THE UPPER LIMB. Brachial Plexus gives off below - the clavicle Anterior thoracic - subscapular - circumflex - nerve of Wrisberg internal cutaneous - musculo-cutaneous ulnar - musculo-spiral C Superficial \ deep. f Superior ■ 1 inferior (long. ("Articular 3 cutaneous "j to teres minor (to deltoid. ("Small cutaneous 1 anterior of fore-arm (posterior of fore-arm. ^To coraco-brachialis j biceps and J brachial is anticus j cutaneous external of fore- arm Particular to carpus. ■To pronator teres to muscles of fore-arm, ex- cept flexor ulnaris and part of profundus anterior interosseous cutaneous palmar to muscles of thumb in part Pfive digital branches. r Articular to elbow to flexor carpi ulnaris to flexor profundus in part cutaneous branch of fore- arm and palm dorsal cutaneous of the hand superficial palmar division ^deep palmar nerve. Internal cutaneous | to triceps and anconeus external cutaneous to supinator and extensor radialis longus SCommunicating two digital branches. posterior interosseous radial C Muscular particular. (Cutaneous of back ) of thumb, and of j first two fingers ( and half the next.336 CHAPTER IV. DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Section I. CAVITY OF THE THORAX. Defini- The cavity of the thorax is the space included by the spinal column, the ribs, and the sternum, and by certain muscles that close the intervals between portions of the bony frame- tents" work. In it the organs of respiration, and the heart with its great vessels are lodged; and through it the gullet, and some nerves and vessels are transmitted. Dissec- Dissection.—When the parts that cover in front the bony tion to . thorax Parie^es °f tne tnorax have been examined and taken away, the cavity is to be opened by removing the sternum and a part of the anterior boundary. To make a sufficient opening into the thorax, the sternum is to be sawn through opposite the interval between the first two ribs, and again between the insertion of the cartilages of the fifth and sixth ribs. After detaching the lining membrane (pleura) from the inner surface of the chest, the student is to cut through all the true ribs, except the first and last,* as far back as he can con- veniently reach. The loose sternum and the ribs can be re- moved, by dividing the intercostal muscles in the first and sixth spaces. The internal mammary artery may now be cut across, and the bag of the pleura opened: when this has been done, the cavity with its contents will be ready for ex- amination. sternum The sternum and the cartilages of the ribs will be required kept. hereafter for the dissection of the ligaments. Form in Form. — The cavity is of the same general form as the thorax, that is to say, irregularly-conical, with the apex * The student must be mindful to leave those ribs uncut. The divi- sion of them will not be advantageous to his own part, and will interfere with the dissection of the neck and abdomen.337 BOUNDARIES OF THE THORAX. above and the base downwards; and it appears, from the collapsed state of the lungs, to be only partly filled by the contained viscera, but during life the whole of the now vacant space is occupied by the expanded lungs. On a hori- On a zontal section its shape would appear somewhat cordiform ; section, for the cavity is flattened on the sides, is diminished behind by the prominent spinal column, and is projected backwards on each side of the spine. Boundaries. — The enclosing parts consist of the bones of Parts bound- the trunk, with certain accessory muscles, both laterally and ing it above and below, as in the following enumeration. On the sides the ribs with their intercostal muscles form on sides, the wall; whilst in front is the sternum, and behind is the in front, spine, together with the additional muscles that would, in behind* each instance, be contiguous to the middle line. The base is constructed at the circumference by the last The dorsal vertebra behind, by the end of the sternum before, its level, and by the ribs on the side ; and within the bony scaffolding formed the fleshy diaphragm fills the space. The base is wider pLagm. transversely than from front to back, and is on the whole convex towards the chest, though a closer inspection will show an undulating surface, and a different level at different its sur- points. Thus in the centre it is lower than at the sides, and is on a level with the xiphoid cartilage. On the right side it rises to a level with the upper border of the fifth rib ; and rr 'height. and on the left, only to the upper border of the sixth rib.* From these lateral projections, the diaphragm slopes suddenly towards its attachment to the ribs, but more behind than before, so as to leave a narrow interval between it and the wall of the chest. The level of this attached part will correspond to an oblique line over the side of the chest from the xiphoid cartilage to the eleventh rib; but it differs slightly on the two sides, being rather lower on the left. The apex is continued higher than the osseous part of the Apex wall, and reaches into the root of the neck. And the high- into est point is not in the centre of the space, for there the windpipe, blood vessels, &c. lie; but is prolonged on each * This is the height in the dead body. The level to which it may- reach in great respiratory efforts during life will be stated with the account of the Diaphragm. ZDISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 338 side for an inch or an inch and a half above the first rib, so is bifid, that the apex may be said to be bifid. Each point projects how between the scaleni muscles, so as to touch the subclavian bounded- blood-vessels, and is bounded by those bodies. In the in- terval between the apices are the several parts that pass between the neck and the thorax. size of Capacity. — The hollow of the thoracic cavity does not chest not , i • • that of correspond to the visible size of the thorax, for about the cavity ; lower half of the space included by the ribs is occupied by the abdominal viscera ; and, above, it reaches beyond the ribs into the neck. depth In consequence of the arched condition of the diaphragm varies ' r> »■■«•«»• the depth of the space must vary greatly at different points, before; At the centre, where the depth is least, it measures nbout behind; seven inches, but at the back as much again; and the other on sides, vertical measurements can be estimated by means of the data given with respect to the correspondence of the base to parts of the wall of the thorax, size is Alterations in capacity. — The size of the thoracic cavity altered . .. . in life; is constantly varying during life with the condition of the ribs and the diaphragm in breathing, in trans- It is increased in the horizontal measurements in inspira- tion- tion, when the ribs are raised and separated from one ribs • by another ; and is diminished in expiration as the ribs approach one another, and the sternum sinks, in depth An alteration in depth is due to the condition of the clia- d?a-the phragm in respiration ; for the muscle descends when air is phragm, ^^en ^Q lungs, thus increasing the cavity, and ascends when the air is expelled from those organs, so as to restore the previous size of the space, or in violent efforts to diminish but un- it. But the movement of the diaphragm is not equal equally, throughout, and some parts of the cavity will be increased proportionally more than others. For instance the central, tendinous piece is joined to the heart case and moves but slightly; but the lateral, bulging, fleshy halves descend freely, and add greatly to the size of the lateral part of the chest by their separation from the thoracic parietes. thorax It is evident that the thoracic cavity may be diminished byaddi- by the base being pushed upwards by enlargement, either tions to n .. . n abdo- temporary or permanent, 01 the viscera in the upper part or men.339 THE PLEURAE. the abdomen; or by the existence of fluid in the latter cavity. THE PLEURiE. The pleurae are two serous membranes, or closed sacs, Sacof • the which are reflected around the lungs in the cavity of the pleura, thorax. One occupies the right, and the other the left half of the cavity; each is restricted to its own side, but it approaches its fellow along the middle line of the body, forming a thoracic partition, though the two do not com- municate. Each pleura is a sac of a conical form, whose apex pro- Form, jects into the neck above the first rib, and whose base is in contact with the diaphragm. Its outer surface is rough, and Outer is connected to the lung and the wall of the chest by cellular membrane, but its inner surface is smooth and secerning, inner Surrounding the lung, and lining the interior of one half of ^hpo^- the chest, the serous membrane consists of a parietal part or JjJJJ1^ the pleura costalis, and of a visceral part, the pleura pul- monalis. The bags of the pleurae approach one another in the middle line, as before said, and form a partition called mediastinum between the two sides of the cavity of the chest. There are some differences in the shape and the extent of Differ- the two pleural bags. On the right side the bag is wider and sac ofn shorter than on the left; and the latter is narrowed by the rig!^ . ' J and left projection of the heart against it. side- The continuity of the bag of the pleura over the lung, and The sac along the wall of the chest, may be traced circularly from a tinuous given point to the same, in the following manner:— lung. Supposing the membrane to be followed outwards from Thecon- the sternum, it may be traced on the walls of the chest as herety S far as the spinal column; here it is directed forwards to the root of the lung, and is reflected over the lung, covering its surface, and connecting together its different lobules. From the front of the root of the lung, the pleura may be seen to course over the side of the pericardium to the sternum. If the serous sac be traced in a circle, above the root of the lung, it will be found to be in contact throughout with the thoracic parietes. Below the root the pleura gives rise to a thin fold,340 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. the ligamentum latum pulmonis, which intervenes between the lung and the side of the pericardium. Along The mediastinum. — The thoracic partition, or the me- Sbeftthe diastinum, is formed by the approximation of the pleural a^arSu"1 bags along the middle line, and is constructed of two layers !!°n' of membrane, one bein^ derived from each sac. But the their 7 ° fnentge" *w0 s^ra^ ^° n°t approximate equally closely throughout; for about midway between the sternum and the spine they are widely separated from one another by the heart. In front of the heart and behind it, however, portions of the mediastinum may still be distinctly seen with the contiguous strata near one another, to which the terms " anterior and posterior mediastina " are sometimes applied; but it should not be forgotten that these are only parts of one great mediasti- num or septum reaching from the sternum to the spine. Part of The part in front of the heart (anterior mediastinum) ex- in front tends from the pericardium to the back of the sternum, and heart is formed by the pleural bag on each side. Behind the anspaceS second piece of the sternum the bags touch one another, but glassur" above and below that spot they are separated by an interval, shape, rj-^.g interpleural space in the anterior part of the medias- tinum is narrowed at the centre, and is inclined below to the left of the middle line. In the upper part of the space are the remains of the thymus gland, and the origin of some of the hyoid and laryngeal muscles; and in the lower part is some cellular tissue, together with the triangularis sterni muscle of the left side. Part The part behind the heart (posterior mediastinum) inter- heart en- venes between the back of the pericardium with the roots of larger* the lungs, and the spinal column. Its lateral boundaries are space. ^e p}eurai sacs. and here these are separated by a larger interpleural space than in the part of the mediastinum in front of the heart. If the pleura be divided behind the lung on The con. the right side, the extent of the space will appear. In this the space are contained the different bodies that lie on the front space. ^ ^e spine, and pass through or out of the thoracic cavity, viz. the aorta, the vena azygos and the thoracic duct, the oesophagus with its nerves, the trachea, the splanchnic nerves at the lower part, and some lymphatic glands. - clean Dissection.—The pleura and the fat are now to be cleaned of the from the side of the pericardium; and the root of the lungCONNECTIONS OF THE LUNG. 341 is to be dissected out, by taking away the pleura and the lung, cellular tissue from its front and back, without injuring its several vessels. In this dissection the phrenic artery and nerve will be found, near the front of the root, together with Trace the a small plexus of nerves (anterior pulmonary); the last nerves, is best seen on the left side. Behind the root of the lung is the large vagus nerve. For the present, the arch of the aorta and the small nerves on it may be left untouched. CONNECTIONS OF THE LUNG. The lungs are two in number, and are contained in the Number cavity of the thorax, one on each side of the spinal column. In these organs the blood is changed in respiration. and use. The lung is of a somewhat conical form, corresponding to Form, the shape of the half of the chest in which it is lodged, and is unattached on all sides, except at the inner part, where the vessels enter and form its root. It is covered, as before said, by the bag of the pleura, except at the root. From the irregularity of its shape, it presents for examination a base and apex, two borders, and two surfaces; it is also divided into lobes by fissures, and has a root composed of the vessels and nerves entering its inner surface. The base of the lung is hollowed, and fits on the convexity Base of the diaphragm; and at its circumference is a thinned dia- part, that projects into the narrow space between the muscle phra°m' and the thoracic wall. Following the shape of that muscle, shape ° L and it is sloped obliquely from before backwards, and in conse- level, quence reaches much lower at the posterior than at the ante- rior edge. Its position with respect to the wall of the tho- rax may be ascertained externally by taking the levels of the diaphragm as guides (p. 337.); and it must be remembered that the lung will be half a rib's breadth lower in front on the left, than on the right side. The apex is rounded, and Apex is projects an inch to an inch and a half above the first rib, neck, where it lies beneath the clavicle, the anterior scalenus muscle, and the subclavian artery. The anterior edge or border is thin, and overlays in part Anterior the pericardium. On the right side it lies along the middle thin, of the sternum as low as the sixth costal cartilage. On the onright left side it is in contact with its fellow, only pleura being g"dglef£ z 3DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 342 between, as low as the fourth costal cartilage; but below that spot it presents a V shaped notch, whose apex is oppo- site the outer part of the cartilage of the fifth rib, and whose base is turned to the middle line. Two fissures are seen in Poste- this border of the right lung, but only one in that of the is thick! left lung. The posterior border is as long again as the anterior, and projects inferiorly between the lower ribs and the diaphragm; it is thick and vertical, and is received into the hollow by the side of the spinal column. External On the outer aspect the lung is convex, and is in contact with the wall of the thorax. A large cleft divides this sur- face into two pieces (lobes of the lung), and on the right internal side there is a second smaller fissure. The inner surface is surface flat when compared with the outer, and is marked by the following inequalities: — Altogether in front, is the hollow corresponding to the heart and its large vessels, which is gives at- greatest on the left lung; behind this, but nearer the pos- mentto terior than the anterior border, is a fissure about three the root. inches long (hilum pulmonis), which receives the vessels forming the root of the lung. Division Each lung is divided incompletely into two parts or lobes lobes, by an oblique fissure, that begins near the apex, and ends in Left has the anterior border near the base. From the form of the two, lung and the direction of the fissure, the lower lobe is neces- andthe sarily the largest. In the right lung- a second horizontal right ... three fissure is directed forwards, from the middle of the oblique lobes. . one, to the anterior border, and cuts off a small triangular piece from the upper lobe: this is the third lobe of that lung. Occasionally there may be a trace of the third lobe in the left lung. Differ- Besides the difference in the number of the lobes, the ence in form right lung is larger and heavier, and is wider and more hol- and size ©©_,:© ' of the lowed out at the base than the left; it is also shorter by an lungs. J inch. The increased length and the narrowness of the left lung are due to the absence below of a large projecting body like the liver, and to the direction of the heart to the left more than to the right side. Root of Boot of the lung. — The vessels of the lung entering the fissure on the inner surface are bound together by the pleura and some cellular membrane; they form a foot-stalk or the root, which fixes the lung to the heart and the windpipe.343 THE PERICARDIUM. z 4 The root is situate at the inner surface, about midway be- situa- tween the base and apex, and about a third of the breadth of that surface from the posterior border of the lung. In front tions. of the root, on both sides, are the phrenic nerve and the anterior pulmonic plexus, the former being at some little distance from it; and anterior to the right root is the descending cava. Behind, on both sides, is the posterior pulmonic plexus; and on the left side there is, in addition, the descending aorta. Above, on the right side, is the vena azygos, and on the left side the arch of the aorta. Below- each root is the fold of pleura called ligament um latum pulmonis. In the root of the lung are found the vessels connected Consti- *n ' i* n • n •• • t • • n • tuents of with the function 01 respiration, viz. a division 01 the air the root; tube (bronchus), a branch of the pulmonary artery, and two pulmonary veins; together with small nutritive bronchial arteries and veins, and some nerves and lymphatics. These different bodies have the following position to one an- other : — On both sides, the bronchus is most posterior, the pul- J^1eaitrive monary veins most anterior, and the pulmonary artery position, between the other two. In the direction from above down- wards, the position on the right side is, bronchus, pulmonary artery, and pulmonary veins; but on the left side there is a slight difference, owing to the bronchus and artery having changed places; consequently the relative position will there be, artery, bronchus, and veins. This difference in the two sides may be accounted for by the fact of the left division of the air tube being at a lower level than the right one. THE PERICARDIUM. The bag that contains the heart is named the pericardium. situa. It is situate in the middle of the thorax, in the interval be- tlon* tween the pleurae of opposite sides. Before proceeding with the anatomy of this sac, the following dissection should be undertaken: — Dissection. — Supposing the surface of the pericardium to Clean be already cleaned, the student should next dissect out the lYttit large arteries and veins connected with the heart. He smliieeIc should afterwards seek carefully the following nerves, that 38nffDISSECTION OP THE THOEAX. 344 arch of cross the arch of the aorta:—the nerve most to the left, and the largest, is the vagus; that to the right of the vagus, and the next largest in size, is the phrenic nerve. Between the preceding, and close to the coats of the artery, are the two following small nerves, the left superficial cardiac nerve of the sympathetic, and the cardiac branch of the left vagus ; of the two, the last is the smallest, and to the right of the other. Dissect The two cardiac nerves of the vagus and sympathetic c2frfi~ are to be followed onwards to a small plexus (superficial Inarch cardiac) in the concavity of the aorta. An offset of the ' plexus is to be traced downwards between the pulmonary artery and the aorta, towards the anterior coronary artery of the heart; and another prolongation is to be found coming forwards by the side of the arterial duct, from the deep cardiac plexus, to join the superficial one. When the peri- cardium is opened, the nerves will be followed on the heart, but their dissection is difficult, and will require some care. Oftentimes these small nerves are destroyed in inject- ing the body. Connec. The periccirdimn is larger than the viscus it contains, the peri- Occupying the interpleural space, it is situate behind the cardium. e „ sternum, and projects below on each side 01 that bone, but much more towards the left than the right side. Some- what conical in form, the wider part of the bag is turned towards the diaphragm, and the narrower part upwards towards the large vessels of the heart. Laterally, the peri- cardium is covered by the pleura, and the phrenic nerve and vessels lie in contact with it. Its anterior and posterior surfaces correspond to the objects contained in the fore and hinder part of the interpleural space; and on the anterior aspect the bag is partly covered by the margins of the lungs, ribro- especially the left, in the manner stated. This envelope of case?s tne ne&rt consists of a fibrous structure, which is lined in- ternally by a serous membrane. Fibrous The fibrous part surrounds the heart entirely, and is gives pierced by the different vessels entering that organ. It toeve&- gives prolongations around the vessels that pass through it, sels" and the strongest of these sheaths is that on the aorta. In- Joins feriorly, it is united by fibres to the central tendon of the phragm. diaphragm; but on the left side it extends beyond the limit345 THE HEART. of that tendon, and reaches the fleshy fibres. This membrane J^^uc- is thickest at the upper part, and is formed of fibres that cross in different directions, many being longitudinal. When the pericardium has been cut open, the serous lining will be discernible. The serous sac lines the interior, of the fibrous peri- Serous layer cardium, and is reflected over the surface of the heart, ijnes ' fibrous, Like other serous membranes, the arachnoid for example, it has a parietal and a visceral part. After lining the interior of the fibrous case, to which it gives the shining appearance, the membrane is conducted to the surface of the heart by and the different vessels. As it is reflected on the aorta and the surface pulmonary artery, it contains those vessels in one tube, not passing between their contiguous surfaces; and at the pos- peCu- terior part of the pericardium it forms a pouch between the inaitsies pulmonary veins of opposide sides. The cavity of the serous tfons°.~ sac is lubricated by a little fluid. The vessels of the pericardium are derived from the in- vessels, ternal mammary, the bronchial, the oesophageal, and the phrenic arteries. THE HEART AND ITS LARGE VESSELS. The heart is a hollow muscular body, and is divided into This J9 _ hollow four compartments bv septa. It is the centre of the vas- body is " Centre °f cular system, and the agent m the propulsion of the blood circuia- through the body. Into it all veins enter, and from it the arteries issue. Form.—When the heart is distended, its form is rather Form, conical; and it lies in the chest with the wider part, or the base directed upwards and to the right, and the rounded apex forwards and to the left side of the cavity. It is Sur- rather flattened from before backwards, and rounded on the borders, left side, so that the surfaces and borders have differences which serve to distinguish one from another:—thus the anterior surface is slightly convex, whilst the posterior is nearly flat; the left border is thick and round, but the right is thin, sharp, and less firm. Size.—The size varies greatly, and in general the heart size, of the woman is smaller than that of the man. The mea- surements may be said to be, commonly, four inches andDISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 346 three quarters in length, three inches and a half in width, and two inches and a half in thickness, situation Position and direction, — The heart lies beneath the lower in the . chest two thirds of the sternum, and projects on each side of it, and ob- but more on the left than the right side. Its axis is not sitionf ° parallel to that of the body, but is inclined obliquely across it; and its left margin is undermost, whilst the right is foremost. placed The heart has not a vertical direction in the chest, with almost horizon- the base upwards and the apex down, but almost a hori- zontal one, so that the base is directed backwards to the right, and the apex forwards to the left side.- Limits Limits, — The limits of the whole heart are the follow- ing:— of base The base is opposite the spinal column, and corresponds to the interval between the fifth and the eighth dorsal ver- and tebras. The apex strikes the wall of the thorax during life apex just below the fifth rib, near its junction with the cartilage, and at a spot on the surface, " two inches below the nipple and one on the sternal side " (Williams). of upper The upper limit would be a line across the sternum on a level with the upper border of the third costal cartilage. And the lower limit, a line across the sternum, at the junc- tion of the xiphoid cartilage, from the articulations of the sixth and seventh cartilages of the right side to the spot where the apex touches. lower - Its lateral limits are the following. On the right it pro* jects from one . to one inch and a half beyond the middle line of the sternum, and its increase in this direction is con- stantly varying wdth the degree of distension of the right half of the heart. On the left side the heart projects three inches to three inches and a half from the centre of the sternum. only Position to wall. — In consequence of the direction of the some A touch neart in the thorax, only some parts can be near, or in con- thewaii. tact with the parietes in front: thus the base must be directed away from the sternum and the costal cartilages; and the left border will be undermost and deep in the cavity, whilst the right half will be forwards and in contact largely with the anterior wall.* * If the dissector wishes for farther information respecting the cor-DIVISIONS OF THE HEART. 347 Component parts. — The heart is a double organ, and is The made up of two similar halves, right and left. In each half double, are two hollow portions, an auricle and a ventricle; tl^se communicate, and are provided with vessels for the entrance and exit of the blood. The right half receives black blood each by the systemic veins, and sends the same to the lungs having by means of the pulmonary artery; but the left half is sup- ncie and plied with red blood from the lungs by the pulmonary tricie. veins, and distributes its contents over the body through the aorta. On the surface of the heart are certain grooves, indicatory Groove* of this division. Thus passing circularly round the heart, position nearer the base than the apex, is a groove which cuts off, as °f it were, the thin auricular, from the fleshy ventricular part. This auricular portion is placed at the base of the organ, auricles and is subdivided into two halves (right and left) by a median partition. In like manner the ventricular portion and ven- 4 A tricles, is parted into right and left ventricles by a septum: the situation of the median partition between the ventricles is recognised by a longitudinal sulcus on the surface. But it and par- may be seen that this sulcus does not occupy the mid space between either on the anterior or the posterior aspect, but is nearer the left border of the heart, in front, and the right border behind; so that most of the anterior surface is formed by right the right, and the greater part of the posterior surface by front.1" the left ventricle. The auricles are two (right and left), as before said, and Number are placed so deeply at the base of the heart, behind the aorta aSono?" and the pulmonary artery, that only the tip of the right one auricles, comes forwards to the sternum. They receive their appella- tion from the resemblance that the tips or appendices, that project forwards on the sides of the arteries, bear to the dog's ears. The auricles are much thinner than the ven- Veins tricles, and are recipients of blood from large veins. Of the {hdr two, the right is rather the larger and the more anterior;cavlties- it is joined by the upper and the lower cava, and by the Rlsht* respondence of the different portions of the heart to points of the wall of the thorax, he may refer to the Papers by Dr. Sibson, in vol. xii. of the Trans, of the Provincial Med. and Surg. Association.348 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Left. veins of the substance of the heart. The left auricle receives the two pulmonary veins from each side. Theven. The ventricles constitute the fleshy part of the heart, and commu- are thicker than the auricles, below which they lie. Two nicate ... terie-ar" *n numker> ^e tne auricles> each has an opening into the Number, auricle of its own side, by which it receives blood, and an- other opening into an artery, by which the blood is trans- mitted from the cavity. Their unequal extent on the aspects The 0f the heart has been before alluded to : thus the right ven- nght. . . tricle forms the right thin border, and the greater part of the a? anterior surface, and is prolonged upwards on the left side The left, into the pulmonary artery. The left ventricle enters alone into the apex, the left border, and most of the posterior surface of the heart: with its cavity the aorta is connected. Dissect Dissection,—Before opening the heart, the vessels for the cor°- . . n / • nary ves. nutrition of its substance (coronary arteries) are to be dis- sels and . nerves, sected on the surface, together with the small nerves and veins that accompany them. The small vessels appear on the sides of the pulmonary artery, and occupy the grooves on the surface of the heart, where they are surrounded by fat; one branches over the right, and the other over the left side. With the anterior artery is a plexus of nerves, which is to be followed upwards to the superficial cardiac plexus; and with the remaining artery is another plexus, and co- At the back of the heart, in the groove between the sinus7 auricles and ventricles, the student will find the large coro- nary vein, and the dilated coronary sinus in which it ends: the last should be defined and followed to its ending in the right auricle. Two The coronary arteries are two small vessels that are so of the" named from their course around the heart; they are the viz.r' first branches of the aorta, and arise close above the semi- lunar valves. One is distributed on the right, and the other on the left side of the heart, right a. The right coronary branch appears on the right side of nary", the pulmonary artery, and is directed onwards in the depres- sion between the right auricle and ventricle, to the posterior aspect of the heart, where it anastomoses with a similar circular offset from the left coronary artery. In this course branches are distributed upwards and downwards to the right half of the heart. Two of these are of larger size thanVESSELS OF THE HEART. 349 the rest: one runs on the anterior aspect of the right ven- tricle towards the free margin; the other descends on the back of the heart, along the septum between the ventricles, and anastomoses towards the apex with the left coronary artery. b. The left coronary branch is inclined behind the pul- left . coronary monary artery to the left side of that vessel, then m the artery, groove between the left auricle and ventricle to the back of the heart, where it anastomoses with the right coronary branch. Like the preceding artery, it furnishes offsets to the substance of the auricle and ventricle. The largest of these descends in the anterior sulcus, over the partition of the ventricles, towards the apex of the heart, and communi- cates with the descending branch of the right coronary artery at the back of the heart. The veins of the substance of the heart (cardiac) are not veins of the same in number, nor have they the same distribution heart, as the arteries. There may be said to be three sets, but for the most part they are united into one large trunk, the coro- nary sinus, which opens into the right auricle. a. The great cardiac or coronary vein begins in front, Large near the apex of the heart, in the substance of the ventricles, vein is single. From this origin, the vessel turns to the back of the heart in the sulcus between the left auricle and ventricle, and opens and into a dilatation, named coronary sinus, about an inch from i°ntons the right auricle. It receives collateral branches in its course, and its ending in the sinus is marked by two valves. The coronary sinus will be seen on raising the heart to be sinus of i • . coronary apparently the dilated ending of the great coronary vein, vein, To show its anatomy it may be opened with a scissors. About an inch usually in extent, it is limited on the one extent, side by two valves that exist at the opening of the great coronary vein into it, and on the other by another valve, where it opens into the right auricle. Its walls are dis- struc- tinctly muscular (Reid). Inferiorly it receives some branches from the back of the ventricles, whose openings are guarded by valves; and nearly at its outer termination is another veins . joining. vein without a valve, — the oblique vein of Mr. Marshall, — that ascends along the back of the left auricle. b. Anterior and 'posterior cardiac veins, — Some small Small . . n i - t • i anterior veins on the anterior part of the right ventricle open sepa- andpos-DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 350 terior rately, by one or more trunks, into the lower part of the veins. n ght auricle. Similar small veins exist over the back of the ventricles; and one, larger than the rest, lies over the septum: they enter the coronary sinus by separate valved openings. Smallest" c. Smallest cardiac, — A third set of veins (veins of The- cardiac. j^g-^ venge minima^) He in the substance of the heart: these are noticed in the description of the right auricle. Cardiac Cardiac nerves, — The nerves for the ripply of the heart are derived from a large plexus (cardiac) around the roots of the aorta and the pulmonary artery. Part of this plexus is superficial to the pulmonary artery, and part beneath it; and from each an offset is sent with a coronary artery. Only the superficial part can be now seen. Super- The small superficial cardiac plexus is placed by the side of the pfexus ductus arteriosus, and below the arch of the aorta. The nerves that join it are the left superficial cardiac nerve of the sympa- thetic, and the small (cervical) cardiac branch of the left vagus (p. 116.), and a considerable bundle of nerves comes forward to it from the deep cardiac plexus. A small ganglionic mass is some- ends in times seen in the plexus. Inferiorly, the plexus ends in nerves to coro-10r the heart, that accompany the right coronary artery. A few fila- nary. ments pass on the left division of the pulmonary artery to the front of the root of the lung of the same side. Anterior a. The anterior or right coronary plexus passes downwards from oSeart. the plexus above described, to reach the right coronary artery, and receives near the heart a communication from the right half of the deep cardiac plexus^ Poste- b- The posterior or left plexus is derived, as will be subsequently plexus. seen? from the deep cardiac plexus, and accompanies the left coro- nary artery to the heart. Accom- On the heart the nerves at first surround the arteries, but they arteries! soon leave the vessels, and becoming smaller by subdivision, are lost in the muscular substance of the ventricles. On and in the substance of the heart the nerves are marked by small ganglia. cavities of the heart. Four The cavities of the heart may be examined in the order in which the current of the blood passes through them, viz. right auricle and ventricle, and left auricle and ven- tricle. Dissec- Dissection. — In the examination of its cavities the heart opeV° is not to be removed from the body. To open the right auricle, auricle, an incision may be made in it, near the free border,351 CAVITY OF RIGHT AURICLE. and from the superior cava nearly to the inferior cava; from the centre of that incision the knife is to be carried across the anterior wall to the auricula. By means of these cuts an opening will be made of sufficient size ; and on raising the flaps with hooks, and removing the coagulated blood, the shape of the cavity will be apparent. The CAVITY OF THE RIGHT AURICLE * IS rather of an irre- Form of gular form, though when seen from the right side, with the auricle, flaps held up as laB&ve directed, it has somewhat the appear- ance of a cone, with, the base to the right and the apex to the left. The base or wider part of the cavity is turned towards the its base; right side, and at its extremities are the openings of the superior and inferior cavse. Between those vessels the wall of the cavity projects somewhat, and presents a slight ele- vation in some bodies (tubercle of Lower). The apex is apex, prolonged downwards towards the junction of the auricle with the ventricle, and in it is the large opening into the right ventricular cavity. The anterior ivall is thin and loose. Near its upper part Anterior is an opening leading into the pouch of the appendix or presents auricula, which will admit the tip of the little finger. Around, and in the interior of the appendix, are fleshy bands, named musculi pectinati, which cross in different directions, forming a network that contrasts with the general smoothness of the auricle. The posterior wall corresponds for the.most part, in con- Poste- sequence of the position of the heart, to the septum between [smS- the auricles. On it, nearer the inferior than the superior fossa" cava, is a large oval depression, the fossa ovalis, which is the remains of an opening in the fetus between the auricles, Inferiorly the fossa merges into the opening of the lower cava. A thin semitransparent structure forms the bottom of the fossa, and there is oftentimes a small oblique aperture at its upper part. Around the upper three fourths of that hollow is an elevated band of muscular fibre, called annulus seu isthmus Yieussenii, which is most prominent above and Annulus * Sometimes the term cavity of the auricle is applied only to the appendix, and the term sinus venosus to the rest of the space here named auricle.352 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. ofvieus- on the inner side, and gradually subsides inferiorly. Alto- Aper- gether at the lower part of the posterior wall, between the caSf opening into the ventricle and that of the inferior cava, is veins. t|ie smai]_ aperture of the coronary vein or sinus. Other small apertures are seen scattered over the surface: some lead only into depressions, but others are the mouths of the veins of the substance of the heart (venae cordis minimag), and are named foramina ThebesiL Aper- The chief apertures in the auricle are those of the two cavae. cavaa, of the coronary vein, and of the ventricle ; but the openings of the cavas should be specially noted, because they are so placed that the current of blood issuing from one, in the fetus, does not mix much with that from the other. The opening of the superior cava is in the front and top of the auricle, and its direction is downwards and somewhat forwards. The inferior cava enters the lowest part of the auricle near the septum, and is directed inwards and back- wards to the fossa ovalis. valves^ All those openings, except that of the superior cava, have aper- some kind of valve. In front of the inferior cava is a thin inferior °f tne lining membrane of the cavity, the Eustachian Sfpro- valve, but in the adult this is only a remnant of a structure, with* that is much larger in the fetus. This valve, in its perfect chian" state, is semilunar in form, with its convex margin attached to valve* the wall of the vein, and the other free in the cavity of the auricle. Its surfaces are directed forwards and backwards. In width, the valve surpasses the size of the vein, so that its extremities reach the surface of the auricle ; and the left end is connected with the annulus, or the rim of the fossa ovalis. Coro- The free margin of the valve is often recticular. The aper- veln. ture of the coronary vein in the lower part of the auricle is closed by a thin fold of the lining membrane — valve of Mm- Thebesius. The auriculo-ventricular opening will be seen, ^entd- in examining the right ventricle, to be provided with valves, opening, which prevent regurgitation into the auricular cavity, course In the adult there is but one current of blood in the right of blood .it,/. in au- auricle towards the ventricle. In the fetus there are two; ricle in adult, one of pure, and the other of impure blood, which cross one the fetus, another. The placental or pure blood entering by the in- ferior cava, is directed by the Eustachian valve chiefly into the left auricle, through the opening (foramen ovale) in theCAVITY OF EIGHT VENTRICLE. 353 septum; whilst the current of systemic or impure blood, coming in by the superior .cava, flows downwards in front of the other to the right ventricle. Dissection. — Seizing the right ventricle, the student To open . . right should pass the scalpel through it below the opening from ^eentri" the auricle, and bring it out inferiorly near the apex of the heart, without injuring the septum ventriculorum. A flap is thus formed, like the letter V, of the anterior part of the ventricle. In the examination of the cavity of the right ventricle, both the flap and the apex of the heart should be raised with hooks, so that the space may be looked into from below. The CAVITY OF THE RIGHT VENTRICLE is triangular in form, Cavity of and has the ^ge turned upwards to the auricle of the same ventri- side. On -afcrjss section the cavity would appear semilunar in form, and the septum between the ventricles, convex towards the cavity. The apex of the cavity reaches the right border of the Apex, heart, at a little distance from the apex. At its base the Base and ventricle is sloped, and is perforated by two apertures ; one ings°.pen of these, on the right, leading into the auricle, is the right auriculo-ventricular opening; the other on the left, and much higher, is the mouth of the pulmonary artery,. The part of the cavity which communicates with the pulmonary artery is funnel-shaped and is named infundibulum, or conus arteriosus. The' anterior wall, or the loose part of the ventricle, is^nndterior comparatively thin, and forms most of the anterior surface of the ventricular portion of the heart. The posterior wall P^erior corresponds in greatest part to the septum between the ven- tricles, and is of considerable thickness. Over the greater part of the cavity the surface is irregu- interior lar, and is marked by projecting fleshy bands of muscular cavity is fibres, the columnse carneae, but near the aperture of the pulmonary artery the wall becomes smooth. The fleshy columns are of various sizes, and of three different kinds. Onu Some merely form a prominence in the ventricle, as on the three sets of septum. Others are attached at each end, but free in the fleshy middle (trabecule carnese). And a third set, which are fewer in number, and much the largest, project into the cavity, and form rounded bundles, named musculi papillares; A A354 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. these give attachment by their free ends to the little ten- dinous cords of the valve of the auriculo-ventricular opening. Opening The auriculo-ventricular orifice is situate in the base of auricle; the ventricle near the right, or the free border of the heart, position; and is opposite the centre of the sternum, between the third costal cartilages : it is slightly larger than the corresponding form; aperture of the left side of the heart. It is oval from side to side, and its shape is maintained by a strong fibrous band that surrounds it. Prolonged from the circumference of the opening is a thin membranous valve, which projects into the cavity of the ventricle. Near its attachment to the heart the valve is undivided, but it is serrated, or divided into three dbUath" cn*e^ Pom^s a* ^s free margin, and is named tricuspid ; to tricuspid this margin are attached small tendinous cords (chordae tendineas), that unite it to the muscular bundles of the ventricle. Tricus- The tricuspid valve is constructed by the lining membrane vafve; of the heart, with fibrous tissue derived frdm the circumfe- fo°rmed- rence °f the auriculo-ventricular opening. Its three slips or divi- ' tongues are thus placed: — One is next the front of the ven- sions; tricle ; another is in contact with the posterior wall, and the remaining one, the largest and most moveable, is interposed between the apertures into the auricle and the pulmonary artery. The central part of each segment is strong, whilst the points are thin and notched; and between the primary divisions there are sometimes secondary points (Kiirschner). attach- The tendinous cords that keep the valve in position ascend ment of .... tendi- from the musculi papillares in the intervals between the nous cords, pieces of the valve, and are connected with the two segments between which they lie*: they end on the surface of the valve turned away from the opening, in three different ways ; some reaching the attached upper margin of the valve, others entering the central thickened part of the segment, and the rest, that' are much finer, ending in the thin point of the and use. tongue of the valve. During the contraction of the ventricle the valve is raised by the blood, so as to close the opening * The papillary muscles are collected into two principal groups, whose tendons enter the interval on each side of the right or anterior tongue of the valve. In the interval between the left and the posterior segment of the valve the tendinous cords are very small, and are con- nected with the septum.CAVITY OF LEFT AURICLE. 355 a a 2 into the auricle, but the farther protrusion of it into the latter cavity is arrested by the small tendinous cords. The mouth of the pulmonary artery will be seen when the Mouth incision in the anterior wall of the ventricle is prolonged monawv . . artery; upwards into it. It is situate on the left of the opening into position ; the auricle, and is opposite the upper border of the third costal cartilage of the left side, close to the sternum. Into it the funnel-shaped part of the right ventricle, or the infundi- bulum is prolonged, and in its interior are three semilunar or has sigmoid valves. Each valve is attached to the side of the semi- • lunar vessel by its convex border, and is free m the cavity by the valves; opposite border, in which there is a slight, thickened, and £^hr at" projecting part, that has been^ named the corpus Arantii. ment' The semilunar valves resemble in structure the tricuspid, struc- for they are formed of fibrous tissue, with a covering of the sigmoid valves lining membrane. In the valves the fibrous tissue has a special arrangement :—There is one band along the attached Arrange- margin ; a second along the free margin, which is connected fibrous with the projecting nodule; and a third set of fibres is di- rected from the nodule across the valve, so as to leave a triangular or semilunar interval almost free from fibres, be- tween it and the band in the free edge, which has been named lunula. The use of these little valves is obvious, viz. and use. to give free passage to fluid in one direction, and to prevent its return by closing the area of the vessel. Whilst the blood is entering the artery, the valves are placed against the wall; but when the vessel acts on the contained blood, the valves are thrown towards the centre of the cavity, and arrest the return of the circulating fluid into the ventricle. Dissection, — To open the cavity of the left auricle, the To open apex of the heart is to be raised, and a cut is to be made riciea.u" across the posterior surface from the right to the left pulmo- nary veins. Another incision should be made in the auricula, at right angles to the former one. The apex of the heart must necessarily be kept raised during the examination of this auricle. The CAVITY OF THE LEFT AURICLE is Smaller than that Shape of of the right side, which it nearly resembles.* Irregularly ieftau-°f conical in shape, the wider part is turned towards the spinal ncle' * The division of the cavity into auricle and sinus venosus may be made on this as on the other side.DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 356 column, and receives the pulmonary veins ; and the narrowed part opens inferiorly into the left ventricle, on an- On the left side, and at the upper part, is the aperture of wall is of the pouch of the auricula, which is narrower than that on auricula. the right side. In the interior of the pouch, as well as around the entrance, are the fleshy fibres or the musculi pectinati, which resemble those before seen in the other auricle. onpos- On the part of the wall corresponding to the septum auri- remnant cularum, is a superficial fossa of a semilunar form, the re- men mains of the oval aperture through that partition; this is bounded below by a projecting ridge, concave upwards, which is the edge of the structure that closed the opening in the fetus. This impression in the left auricle is above the fossa ovalis in the right cavity, because the aperture of communication between the two, in the fetus, was an oblique canal through the septum, open- The apertures in this auricle are those of the four pulmo- four pui- nary veins, two on each side, together with the opening of monary . . veins, communication with the left ventricle. The mouths of the two pulmonary veins are close to one another; those from the right lung open into the extreme right of the auricle near the septum, and those from the left lung enter the opposite part of the cavity, near the auricula. These veins are not one into provided with valves. The aperture into the ventricle will cienm" be afterwards seen to have a large and complicated valve, as on the right side, to guard it. current In the adult, the blood enters this cavity by the pulmonary in adult; veins, and passes to the left ventricle by the large inferior in fetus, opening between the two. In the fetus, however, the lungs are impervious to the air and the circulating fluid; and the left side of the heart receives its pure blood at once from the right auricle through the aperture (foramen ovale) in the septum. How to Dissection.—The left ventricle may be opened by an open left . . . . \ . J ventri- incision along both the anterior and the posterior surface, near the septum ; these are to be joined at the apex, and are not to be extended so far upwards as to reach the auricle. On raising the triangular flap, the interior of the cavity will be seen. Form of The cavity of the left ventricle is longer, and moreCAVITY OF LEFT VENTRICLE. 357 conical in shape than that of the opposite ventricle, and on a left ven- transverse section of the heart it appears oval or almost circular. The apex of the cavity reaches into the apex of the heart, Apex, for the fibres of the left ventricle alone form this part. The Base • 1 Til Wlth itS base is turned towards the auricle, and is sloped slightly open- in a direction opposite to that of the right ventricle. In this part are the openings into the aorta and the left auricle. The walls of this ventricle are the thickest, and the ante- Walls, rior boundary is formed by the septum ventriculorum. Its surface is irregular, like that of the right ventricle, in inner consequence of the projections of the fleshy columns, or the has carneae columnar; but near the great artery (aorta) that leads Columns, from the cavity the surface is smooth. Three sets of fleshy but some columns are seen in this as in the right ventricle, but the set urge, that projects into the cavity and receives the small tendi- nous bands of the valve is the most marked. The musculi papillares spring from the front and back of the parietes, and are collected, for the most part, into two large muscular projections. The aperture into the left auricle (auriculo-ventricular) IS Left au- placed on the left of the orifice of the aorta, and close to it, JentrScu only as thin fibrous band intervening between the two. This ture!p6r* opening is rather smaller than the corresponding aperture of Form the right side, and like it is longest in the transverse direc- size, tion: its position is beneath the right auriculo-ventricular pOSition. opening, opposite the centre of the sternum. It is furnished it has with a membranous valve that projects into the ventricle; valve6 but this is stronger and of greater length than the tricuspid, and has also firmer and more tendinous cords. Attached to a fibrous ring around the aperture, the valve is divided below by a notch on each side, into two instead of three pieces; its segments lie one before another, having their edges directed to the sides, and their surfaces towards the front and back of the cavity. From a fancied resemblance of it to a mitre it has been called the mitral valve. The named anterior tongue of the valve intervenes between the auricular m rd' and aortic openings, and is attached above to the fibrous band in that position; it is larger and looser than the poste- rior segment. * 4 The mitral resembles the tricuspid valve in its structure Mitral A A 3 Valve-DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 358 and office. Its segments consist of thicker and thinner parts, and in the notches at the sides there are also secondary Attach- pieces between the segments. The strong tendinous cords cordL°f ascend to be attached to the valve in the lateral notches be- tween the tongues, and each of the large papillary muscles acts on both divisions of the valve. The ending of the ten- dinous cords is the same as in the tricuspid valve. Aortic The opening of the aorta is somewhat on a higher level opening, t^an tjiat 0f the auricle, and is next the septum of the ven- position tricles. By slitting up the side of the vessel without cutting form. the pulmonary artery, its aperture will be found to be round, and rather smaller than that of the pulmonary artery, be- neath, and below and internal to which it lies : with respect to the wall of the thorax, it is opposite the lower border of the third left costal cartilage, behind the contiguous part of is guard- the sternum. In its interior are three semilunar or sigmoid ed by three valves, which are lamer and stronger than the analogous sigmoid • , ■ t , , ,., valves, parts in the pulmonary artery, but have a like structure, attachment, and function. The projection in the centre of each valve, viz. corpus s. nodulus Arantii is also better marked. Opposite each valve the coat of the aorta is bulged as on the right side, though in a greater degree, and presents also a little hollow on the inner side named sinus of Valsalva. Above the free margin of two of the small valves are the apertures of the coronary arteries. Relative Apertures in the heart. — Two openings have been seen in of the each ventricle, one of the auricle of its own side of the heart, tures of and one of an artery. The apertures of the arteries (aorta heart, and pulmonary) are nearest the septum; and as the two vessels were originally formed from one tube, they are close together, but the pulmonary artery is the more anterior of the two. The aperture of communication with each auricle is next the side of the heart (the right in the one case, and the left in the other), and is posterior in its position to the artery that issues from the fore part of the ventricle. The po- From sition of the openings to one another, from before backwards, back, has been before referred to ; thus the right auriculo-ventri- cular is before the left; and the opening of the pulmonary artery is before that of the aorta, and rather higher than it. struc- Structure.—The heart is composed of strata of muscular the6 °f fibres, and of certain fibrous rings which serve as fixed points359 STRUCTURE OF THE HEART. A A 4 for their attachment. These structures must be studied on heart a separate heart, or on that of the ox or sheep, in which the animus- fibres have been hardened by boiling, so that they can be separated. The description of the structure of the heart may therefore be omitted till a fit preparation of the fibres can be made. The fibrous structure forms rings around the auriculo- Fibrous -. • i -. i i • bands ventricular and arterial orifices, and sends prolongations into the valves connected with those openings. a. The auriculo-ventricular rings give attachment to the form u ° . rings muscular fibres both of the auricles and ventricles, as well around . . auriculo- as to the framework of fibrous tissue in the tricuspid and ventri- cular mitral valves. These bands are distinct from those encircling open- the arterial mouths, except at the right part of the left auriculo-ventricular opening, where the auricular and the arterial circles are blended. b. An arterial ring surrounds each large artery (aorta and a ^ and pulmonary), fixing those vessels, and giving attachment arterial to the muscular fibres and the semilunar valves. Each is a *ngs. circular band, with an uninterrupted margin towards the ventricle, and a toothed or wavy margin towards the artery. This last margin has three notches, which are filled by To these corresponding projections of the artery, and give attach- sigmoid ment, internally, to the sigmoid valves along their semilunar edges. The artery is connected with the band of fibrous tissue in and mid- the following manner: — The middle coat presents three of the artery projecting convex pieces, that are received into and con- are^ nected with the notches of the 'fibrous ring, but most inti- mately with the points; and the union between the two is strengthened externally by the parts around the vessel, and internally by the endocardium. The muscular substance forms concentric bands of fibres, Muscu- which are arranged mostly in a circular or spiral direction, stance of and enclose the different cardiac cavities. In the wall of the is dis. auricles the fibres are quite distinct from those in the ven- auricles tricles, though both sets are attached to the fibrous circles tricks?" around the cardiac orifices, as to a common point of origin or insertion. Some of the fibres enter the bases of the auriculo-ventricular valves. The fibres belong to the invo-DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 360 luntary class of muscles, and yet they are marked with transverse striae. Disposi- ^. In the wall of the auricles the fibres are mostly trans- thTau" verse, and are best marked at the lower part, though they ncles' form here but a thin layer; and some of these fibres dip where into the septum between the auricular cavities. Besides this trans- set, there are annular fibres around the appendages of the annular, auricles, and the openings of the different veins. Lastly, a and ob- few oblique fibres pass upwards over the auricles, and are attached below, both in front and behind, to the fibrous rings surrounding the auriculo-ventricular orifices, ventr? ^' ^n ^e wa^ °f ^e ventricles the fibres are disposed in passthey ^ayers? which pass spirally downwards from the base towards base to ^e smaller part of the heart, where they make a sudden apex. bend, and are reflected upwards with a straighter direction and a deeper position, to form the inner surface of the ven- tricular cavity. To allow of this turning inwards of the fibres, the deepest layers extend the shortest distance from Jhe e the base of the ventricle. Each ventricle has, for the most fibres of trfcies1" Partj *ts own f°rmative fibres, which assist in constructing mostly tne sePtum between the cavities; but some bands are con- separate, cerned in the production of the wall of both ventricles on the anterior and posterior aspects of the heart, near the base of the ventricles, where the fibres are nearly circular in but some direction, and cross the interventricular grooves. When common to both, these inter-communicating fibres are divided, the ventricles may be detached from one another.* Lining Endocardium.—Lining the interior of the cavities of the mem- braneof heart is a thin membrane, which is continuous on the one the .... heart hand with the lining of the veins, and on the other with that of the arteries. This membrane is so named in opposition forms to the external investment or pericardium. Where the the in- membrane passes from an auricle to a ventricle, or from terior by . • p -i t • covering a ventricle to an artery, it lorms duphcatures or valves, in tissue, which fibrous tissue is enclosed. In the ventricle it also covers the tendinous cords of. the valves, and the projecting muscular bundles. The thickness of the membrane is less in the auricles than in the ventricles. * For fuller detail concerning the structure of the heart, the student may refer to the article " Heart" in the Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology,GREAT VESSELS OF THE HEART. 361 Great Vessels of the Heart. — The arteries that take vessels origin from the heart are the pulmonary artery and the of the aorta. The large veins entering the heart, besides the coro= nary, which have been examined, are the superior and the inferior cava, and the pulmonary veins. The pulmonary artery is a short thick trunk that con- The pul- monary veys the dark or impure blood from the right side of the artery heart to the lungs. From its commencement in the right ventricle, the vessel is directed upwards on the left of the aorta ; and at a distance of an inch and a half or two inches is a from its origin, divides into two branches, of nearly equal trunk, size, for the lungs. Near the bifurcation of the artery is a yides small ligamentous cord, the remnant of the arterial duct, for the which passes from the left branch of the vessel to the arch of the aorta, and is named ligamentum ductus arteriosi. The trunk of the pulmonary artery is contained in the peri- £°™ec" cardium; and beneath it is the beginning of the aorta, to- gether with the left auricle. On each side are the coronary artery and the auricula. The right branch is longer than the left. In its course to Right the lung it lies beneath the aorta, and the vena cava supe- i0rngest!s rior, and rests on the bronchus or the division of the air tube: and as it passes outwards, it is above the level of the right auricle of the heart. At the lung the artery divides into three primary branches, one for each lobe, which enter the pulmonic substance. The left branch is rather smaller than the right; it is Left ° branch, directed in front of the descending aorta and the left bronchus, to the fissure of the root of the lung, where it divides into two branches corresponding to the number of the lobes. As the right and left branches of the pulmonary artery Space at pass outwards, they cross the divisions of the air tube, and furca- enclose with these a lozenge-shaped space which contains some bronchial glands. Ductus arteriosus. — In the fetus, the part of the pul- Condi- ? r r tion of monary artery which is now ligamentous, was the continua- the ac- tion of the trunk of the vessel, and was larger than either the fetus.. branch to the lung., At that period the vessel above referred to receives the name arterial canal or duct (ductus arte- riosus, Botalli), and opens into the aorta rather beyond theDISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 362 origin from the arch of the last great vessel of the head and neck. As the lungs do not give passage to the circulating fluid before birth, the blood of the pulmonary artery passes into the aorta below the attachment of the vessels of the head and neck, in order that it may be transmitted to the placenta to be purified; but after birth the function of the lungs is established, and the current of blood is directed along the branches of the pulmonary arteries instead of through the arterial duct : then this last channel becomes gradually smaller, and is quite obliterated before the eighth or the tenth day. This The aorta is the great systemic vessel that conveys the vessel blood from the heart to the different4parts of the body. The extends 1 . J vessel first arches backwards to reach the spinal column, on through which it afterwards extends through the chest and the abdo- chest ... andab- men. In the thorax, the vessel is divided into two parts— domen. t r arch of the aorta, and the descending or thoracic aorta, its first Arch of the aorta, — The aorta has its origin in the left part is . J . ° arched, ventricle, close below the junction of the cartilage of the The ex- third rib of the left side with the sternum. From that point tent . it ascends, and curves backwards over the windpipe and the gullet, to reach the left side of the spinal column. And it loses its designation of 6i arch" at the lower border of the body of the third dorsal vertebra. The arch has its con- vexity upwards and to the right, and from it the large vessels for the supply of the upper part of the body take anddi- their origin. For the purpose of reducing to order the visions . n . n of the numerous connections 01 this portion 01 the aorta, the arch is divided into three parts—ascending, transverse, and descending. First a. The first or ascending part is about two inches in part' length, or slightly more, and is directed upwards behind, length and very close to the sternum: it reaches as high as the nections". upper border of the cartilage of the second rib on the right side, and is contained nearly altogether in the pericardium. At first the pulmonary artery is superficial to the aorta; but as these vessels take different directions, the latter is soon uncovered, and remains so to its termination. On the right side is the descending cava, and on the left, the pul- monary artery. Behind it is the right division of the pul- monary artery. Near the heart the vessel bulges oppositeARCH OF THE AORTA. 363 eacli semilunar valve, forming the sinuses of the aorta; and there is sometimes another dilatation along the right side, which is named the great sinus of the aorta. The two Gives < origin to coronary arteries arise close to the swellings first alluded to. coronary J . arteries. b. The second or transverse piece crosses behind the second sternum, and reaches from the second right costal cartilage trans" to the left side of the body of the second dorsal vertebra. verse' It rests upon the trachea above its bifurcation, as well as over the oesophagus. Lying in front of this part of the connec- artery are the pneumogastric, phrenic, and superficial cardiac tI0ns' nerves; and the first nerve sends backwards its recurrent branch beneath the vessel. Along the upper border is the Gives innominate vein; and fi*6m this border arise the three great Erfe1 ° vessels of the head and the upper limbs. To the lower border, near its termination, the remnant of the arterial duct is attached. c. The third or descending part of the arch is very short, Third extending only from the second, to the lower part of the without third dorsal vertebra. It lies against the third dorsal ver- tebra, and the fibro-cartilage between it and the second; and it is covered by the left pleura. In the concavity of the arch of the aorta are contained the Parts left auricle of the heart, the root of the left lung, the branch- tained in ing of the pulmonary artery with its arterial duct, and the left recurrent nerve. Deeper than these bodies, will be found the oesophagus and the thoracic duct, with some lymphatic glands. The branches of the arch of the aorta are five in number; Five two come from the ascending, and three from the transverse of the part. The two first are the coronary arteries of the heart, two ' which have been already noticed (p. 348.). The other three n°™" are much larger in size, and supply the neck, the head, and the upper limbs. First on the right is the large trunk of the inno- innominate artery; close to it is the left carotid; and last of carotid| all is the left subclavian, which is distant a small space from subcia- the preceding vessel. Peculiarities. — The exceptions to the usual condition of the Pecuii- arch of the aorta, that the student may expect to find, concern the height and direction of the arch, and the position and number of its branches. t Height. — The arch reaches commonly to about an inch from the Height and364 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. upper part of the sternum, but it may ascend nearly to the top of that bone, or stop an inch and a half or more from it. direc- Direction. — Sometimes the aorta is arched over the root of the tion of the right instead of the left lung, as in birds : and is directed afterwards arch to its usual place on the spinal column, without any other change in the position of the viscera of the body. Or, all the viscera of the cavities of the thorax and abdomen being transposed, the arch of the aorta may share the general disturbance in locality. Position Position of branches. — The large branches of the neck may have of the .... primary their usual origin (the highest part of the arch) moved more to the branch- . Qr ^heir distance from one another may be increased or diminished. When there is transposition of the arch there is like- wise transposition of the branches — the innominate artery supply- ing the left side, and the carotid and subclavian vessels on the right side having separate attachments to the arch ; but Tiedemann gives an instance of the innominate going to the left side of the neck without transposition. Their Number of branches. — The most frequent change in number is number . . 1 . . may be the reduction of the arteries to two, as when the left carotid arises to two, from the innominate artery, or the left carotid and left subclavian or in- are conjoined. But the number may be increased to four by the to four, absence of the innominate trunk, and the separate origin of the right carotid and subclavian arteries from the arch : — in this last case the right subclavian varies in its position, though commonly five, or it is attached to the arch of the aorta, to the left of the rest. Lastly, there may be five or six primary trunks from the arch; and in in- stances of this state, the internal and external carotids take their origin from it, in consequence of absence of the trunk common to the two, on one or both sides. Second- Some smaller or secondary arteries take origin occasionally branch- from the arch. The most frequent example of this peculiarity is es* seen in the origin of the left vertebral artery, between the left carotid and subclavian trunks, or beyond them. Occasionally a thyroid artery (lowest thyroid), or the right internal mammary, or both vertebrals, will be seen to spring from the arch of the aorta, inno- The innominate artery (bracbio-cephalic) is the largest artery offset of the transverse part of the arch, and is the first of ends in the three branches. It is a thick trunk, varying from one and sub- inch and a half to two inches in length ; ascending to the clavian. . .,..,7 - right, beneath the sternum, it divides into carotid and sub- clavian arteries, opposite the sterno-clavieular articulation. The artery is crossed by the left innominate vein, and is behind the upper piece of the sternum, and the origin of the Length hyoid and thyroid muscles. At first the innominate artery365 BRANCHES OF THE AORTA. rests on the trachea, but as it ascends it is placed on the and con- ... . nections. risrht of the air tube. On its right is the innominate vein of the same side, with the phrenic nerve. Usually no lateral branch arises from the artery. Peculiarities. — The length of the artery may exceed two inches, length or it may be only one inch or less : in these different states the altered; place of bifurcation will be altered, being in one case beyond, and in the other below the level of the tipper border of the clavicle. Branches. — The left carotid is frequently joined with this artery ^an^es at its origin. Or a branch to the thyroid body (art. thyroidea ima), or to the thymic body, or to the root of the lung, may arise from the innominate. Position. — The innominate artery belongs to the left side of the Position, neck in cases of transposition of the arch. (See p. 364.) Left common carotid artery. — The common carotid artery Left i common of the left side of the neck springs from the arch of the carotid . . artery aorta, and is therefore longer than the right by the distance arises 4 ' „ from between the arch and the top of the sternum. arch of aorta. In the thorax, the artery ascends obliquely to the left connec- sterno-clavicular articulation, but not close to the first piece thTtho- of the sternum and the origin of the depressor muscles ofiax* the hyoid bone and larynx. In that course it crosses be- neath the left innominate vein, and the remains of the thymus gland ; and it lies at first on the trachea, but it after- wards crosses to the left of that tube, so as to be placed over the oesophagus and the thoracic duct. To its outer side is the left pneumo-gastric nerve, with one or more cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerve. In the neck, the connec- tions of the vessels of opposite sides are the same (p. 78.). Peculiarities in origin. — This is the most frequent change in the Pecu- vessel. The carotid is sometimes united with the innominate in its artery; or, should the innominate artery be absent, the common ongin- carotids, right and left, arise usually by one trunk. Its junction with the left subclavian is rare, except with transposition of the arch. In position. — It seldom changes its relative position with respectin posi- to the other branches of the arch, but if this is altered it tends generally towards the right. The left subclavian artery arises from the arch of the aorta, Left sub- and ascends to the lower part of the neck through the upper artery" aperture of the thorax. Beyond the first rib the vessels of opposite sides are alike (p. 70.).366 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Course The left subclavian trunk is directed almost vertically from and con- J nections the arch oi the aorta to the inner margin of the first rib. in the ° thorax. In the thorax the vessel lies deeply, resting at first on the oesophagus, and afterwards on the vertebral column, in front of the longus colli muscle ; it is covered by the left pleural bag in all its extent. On its inner side are the trachea and the oesophagus, with the thoracic duct. Somewhat anterior to the level of the artery, though running in the same direc- tion, are the vagus nerve, and some of the cardiac nerves. Varia- Peculiarilies in origin. — The left subclavian is subjected less its origin frequently than the other branches of the arch to variations from quentf" its ordinary arrangement. Occasionally it arises in common with the left carotid when the arch has its usual direction. Should there be transposition of the arch, the subclavian arises usually from an innominate trunk; but this is not a constant rule, for the subclavian, in such a condition of the vessels, may be the last on the arch, like the right vessel, and cross the front of the spinal column to take its place in the neck: or it may take origin, though rarely, from a dilatation connected with the remains of the arterial duct. Right Right artery from the arch.—In some instances the right sub- subcla- ,.•'.„, i /. t i i i • . vian clavian arises from the arch of the aorta, and when this peculiarity S-ffe exists, the vessel may be placed first, second, or third, though most arch!the frequently it is last on the arch. To reach the inner margin of the first rib of the right side, when it is last on the arch (most to the left), the artery is directed between the oesophagus and the ver- tebral column, or it may be, as in one case, between the trachea and the oesophagus. The right subclavian may also be connected with a pouch, or the pervious part of the ductus arteriosus, in the same way as the left subclavian. (See Mr. Quain's work, p. 159.) veins of Yeins of the Heart.— These are, as before said, the heart are superior and the inferior cava, and the pulmonary veins: the former are the great systemic veins that return impure blood to the right auricle ; and the latter convey pure blood from the lungs into the left auricle, superior The superior or descending cava is formed by the union which is of the right and left innominate veins, and brings to the formed to . byinno- heart the blood of the head, neck, upper limbs, and thorax. minate , veins; Its origin is on the right side of the arch of the aorta, oppo- site the interval between the cartilages of the first two ribs. From that spot the large vein descends to the pericardium,VEINS OF THE HEART. 367 perforates the fibrous layer of that bag, about one inch and ends in a half above the heart, and ends in the right auricle. On its outer aspect, the vein is covered by the right pleura, and the phrenic nerve is in contact with it. On the inner side is the ascending part of the arch of the aorta. Behind the vein is the root of the right lung. When the cava is about to perforate the pericardium it is its joined by the large azygos vein of the thorax: higher than es. that spot it receives small veins from the pericardium, and the parts in the mediastinal space. The innominate veins are united inferiorly in the trunk of inno. the descending cava : they are two in number, right and left, veins and each is formed, behind the inner end of the clavicle, by right the, union of the subclavian and internal jugular veins of the left, same side of the neck. The trunks differ in length and How direction, and in their connections with the surrounding parts. The right vein is about one inch and a half long, and des- Right cends vertically, on the right side of the innominate artery, and a to its junction with the vein of the opposite side. On the long; outer surface the pleura covers it, 'and along it the phrenic nerve is placed. The left vein is twice or three times as long as the right, left, and is directed obliquely downwards above the level of the times as arch of the aorta, to join with its fellow in the superior cava, obliqued Between its origin and termination the vein crosses behind tion. the sternum, and the remains of the thymus gland ; and it lies on the three large branches of the aortic arch, as well as on the several nerves that descend over the arch. The branches of these veins are not the same on the two Their sides. Into the right vein the inferior thyroid, and the in- es. ternal mammary of the same side are received : and into the left, besides two branches from the left side of the body, cor- responding to those joining the other vein, there are collected, the left superior intercostal, and small thymic and pericardiac Peculiarities. — Sometimes the innominate veins are not united Some- into one, but remain separate, and have distinct openings in the theyS right auricle. When such a variety exists, the right vein takes pratlfy the course of the ripper cava; but the left vein descends in front jj^°rthe of the root of the left lung, and turning to the back of the heart,368 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. receives the cardiac veins, and opens into the right auricle. A cross brancli is found connecting the two above the heart.* This This occasional condition in the adult is a regular one in a very in fetus, early period of the fetus ; and is also persistent in some mammalia. How The changes that take place in the veins during the growth of changed tne fetus, so as to produce the arrangement common in the adult, into one. COncern mostly the trunk on the left side. The following concise statement may serve as an outline of them. First the cross branch between the two enlarges and forms the future left innominate vein. And the trunk (left) below the cross branch disappears at its middle, and undergoes transformations at each end:— At the upper end it becomes converted into the superior intercostal vein. At the lower end it remains pervious for a short distance as the Forms coronary sinus ; and even the small oblique vein opening into the sinu?.ary end of that sinus in the adult (p. 349.), is a remnant of the part of the trunk of the vein that lay beneath the heart. Inferior The inferior or ascending cava enters the right auricle as cava* soon as it has pierced the diaphragm. No branches open into the vein in the thorax. The anatomy of this vein will be given with that of the vessels of the abdomen. Four The pulmonary veins are two on each side ; they issue from nary the fissure of the root of the lung, and end in the left auricle ; veins. their position to the other vessels of the root has been noticed at p. 343. Right The right veins are longer than the left, and lie beneath longest, the right auricle of the heart. The superior one receives its roots from the upper and middle pulmonic lobes, and the inferior vein is formed by branches of the lower lobe. Left. The left veins cross in front of the descending aorta ; and one springs from each lobe of the lung. Their Peculiarities in number. — The number of the pulmonary veins varies^ may be altered, by the union of those of the left side into one ; or by the want of union on the right side, from which three trunks result, corresponding to three lobes. But other peculiarities may be found as to number, for six or seven veins, taking both sides together, have been observed, and a bronchial vein has been found opening into one of the left veins. * An example of those two large vessels " double vena cava," opening into the heart in the adult, has been given to the College Museum by Dr. Sharpey. The student may consult an excellent paper by Mr. John Marshall, on the development of the veins of the neck,—Philosoph. Trans, for 1850.NERVES OF THE THORAX. 369 NERVES OF THE THORAX. The pneumo-gastric and the sympathetic nerves supply the ^et™es viscera of the thorax. Some other nerves (intercostal) which thorax, are contained in the wall of the thorax, will be afterwards dissected. In the cavity of the thorax is the phrenic nerve, but this only courses through it to the diaphragm. Dissection.—The phrenic nerve is sufficiently denuded for ^o trace its examination; but the student should trace the vagus nerves, ° particu- nerve on each side through the cavity of the thorax. The lar]y < . vagus. vagus is to be followed, on both sides, behind the root of the lung, and a large plexus of it in that position is to be dis- sected out: some filaments of the gangliated cord of the sympathetic, that come forwards to the plexus, must be looked for. In front of the root, the nerve supplies a few pulmonary filaments, especially on the left side. From the root of the lung the vagus is to be pursued along the oeso- phagus, by raising the lung and removing the pleura. The phrenic nerve (internal respiratory) is a muscular Phrenic branch from the cervical plexus to the diaphragm (p. 77.). derived _ . . _ .' , f . ,. from the In its course through the thorax, it lies along the side of the cervical pericardium, and at a little distance from the root of the lung, with a small companion artery. When near the dia- and passes phragm each is divided into branches that perforate the J[j^|h muscle, and are distributed on its under surface. The nerves the 7 m dia- of opposite sides differ in length, and in their connections Pnragm. above the root of the lung. The right nerve is deeper at first in its position, and is Right > nerve also shorter and straighter than the left. As it enters the above ° . root of chest the nerve crosses behind the subclavian vein, but in lung, front of the internal mammary artery ; and it lies afterwards along the right side of the innominate vein and the superior cava till it comes in front of the root of the lung. The left nerve has the same position to vessels as the Leffc ^ A nerve right when entering the cavity, but it is directed in front of ^tve the arch of the aorta to the root of the lung ; and, lower down, it makes a curve around the projecting heart, before is longer reaching the arch of the aorta, the nerve is external to the rigaht. left common carotid artery, and crosses the left vagus from without inwards, so as to be internal to that nerve on the arch. B B 9DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 370 some Branches.—Some small filaments are said to be furnished from the phrenic nerve to the pericardium; and occasionally the nerve is joined, near the upper part, by a twig from the branch of the nerve to the subclavius muscle. Jnternai Internal mammary artery. — A small part of this artery, artery wnich furnishes a branch to the diaphragm, has not yet been noticed. This part intervenes between the point of entrance of the artery into the chest (p. 73.), and its course through round the cavity along the side of the sternum (p. 263.). Lying aperture beneath the first rib the vessel winds round the phrenic of tho- ^ a rax, nerve and the innominate vein to reach the side of the sternum. It gives the following offset: — and gives The superior phrenic branch (comes nervi phrenici) is a branch." very slender artery, that accompanies the phrenic nerve to the diaphragm, and is distributed to that muscle, anasto- mosing therein with the other arteries from the aorta, and the musculo-phrenic branch of the internal mammary. Vagus The pneumo-gastric nerve is one of the three trunks in the constituting the eigth cranial nerve (p. 114.). Like the corre- phrenic nerve, each passes through the thorax in its course on both from the neck to the abdomen. In the lower part of the sides be- . . low root thorax the nerves resemble one another in their course, for of lung. they pass behind the root of the lung, each on its own side, and along the oesophagus to the stomach. But above the root of the lung, the right and left nerves differ as much as the phrenic. Each supplies branches to the viscera, viz. to the heart, the lungs, and the gullet. Right The right nerve is posterior to the left in its position. As above the nerve appears in the thorax, it lies between the sub- the root _ . , . , of the clavian artery and the right innominate vein, and sends backwards a recurrent branch round the former. At first it is directed obliquely backwards, over the side of the trachea, to the interval between that tube and the oesophagus ; and thus supported, the nerve reaches the posterior aspect of the root of the lung, where it forms the posterior pulmonary and on plexus. From the plexus two large offsets are continued to of the the oesophagus and unite into one near the diaphragm : the gus be- trunk thus formed, lies behind the gullet, and passes along it " to the posterior surface of the stomach. Left The left nerve enters the thorax behind the left innominate nerve above vein, and to the outer side of the left common carotid artery.371 PNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVE. Lying between the left subclavian and the common carotid the root arteries, the nerve courses over the arch of the aorta, then lung, beneath the root of the lung, and forms there a larger plexus than on the right side. From the pulmonic plexus one or and on ° L 1 the front two branches pass to the front of the oesophagus, and join ^fg^a with the corresponding branches of the right nerve in a sus- plexus on that tube. Finally, the divisions of the nerve are collected into one trunk, which is continued on the front of the oesophagus to the anterior part of the stomach. The branches of the pneumo-gastric nerve in the thorax Branch. 1 ° es are, are the following : — 1. The recurrent or inferior laryngeal nerve is the first branch ™™r- in the thorax. Arising on the right side on a level with the sub- ryngeal clavian artery, and on the left at the lower border of the arch of thorax; the aorta, the nerve bends backwards to the trachea, along which it ascends to the larynx. On each side this branch is freely con- nected with the cervical cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerve, especially on the left side beneath the arch of the aorta. 2. Cardiac branches (thoracic). — Besides the cardiac branches cardiac furnished by the vagus in the neck, there are other offsets in front in the of the trachea to communicate with the cardiac plexus. These thorax' branches come from the trunk and the recurrent branch of the nerve on the right side, but they are supplied by the recurrent nerve alone on the left side. The termination of the lower cervical cardiac branch of each lower nerve (p. 116.) may now be seen. The branch of the right vagus branch lies by the side of the innominate artery, and joins a cardiac nerve neck6; of the sympathetic from the neck ; but the branch of the left vagus crosses over the arch of the aorta, and ends in the superficial cardiac plexus. 3. Pulmonary branches. — There are two sets of branches for the Puimon- lung, one. to the anterior and the other to the posterior aspect of branch- the root. a. The anterior branches are two or three in number, and of Small small size, and communicate with filaments of the sympathetic on the pulmonary artery, to form the anterior pulmonary plexus. These nerves are best seen on the left side. b. The posterior branches are the largest and much the most Large numerous, and are obtained by the splitting of the trunk of the X\oT~ nerve after it has become flattened. Forming a plexiform arrange- form a ment (posterior pulmonary plexus) behind the root of the lung, piexus" these nerves are joined by filaments from the third and fourth ganglia of the knotted cord of the sympathetic, and are conveyed into the interior of the lun# on the divisions of the air tube.372 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. CEso- 4. (Esophageal branches are furnished to the gullet all along the branches thorax, but in greatest abundance in the lower half. Below the root of the lung the branches of the pneumo-gastric nerves sur- form a round the oesophagus with a network, which has been named plexus piexus* gules. Part of Sympathetic Nerve. — In the thorax the sympathetic the sym- . . pathetic nerve consists, as in the abdomen, of a knotted cord alonp; in tho- • rax con- each side of the spinal column, which communicates with the sists of . spinal nerves: and of a large prevertebral or cardiac plexus, which distributes branches to the viscera, viz. to the heart and the lungs. a^gangii- The gangliated cord will be seen in a future stage of cord, the dissection, after the heart and the lungs have been removed. and a The cardiac plexus lies at the base of the heart, around cardiac the great bloodvessels. A part of this network, the super- piexus. £jcjaj car(^jac plexus, has been already described (p. 350.). The remaining part, or the deep cardiac plexus, will be found beneath the arch of the aorta by means of the follow- ing dissection: — Dissec- Dissection. — The cardiac plexus has been interfered with the by the previous examination of the heart, but, by following plexus. . _. . . . i * 11 i • i the directions now given, the student will obtain a know- ledge of the disposition of the nerves, and will be able to make a complete dissection of them when the opportunity offers. To find The arch of the aorta is to be cut across with care, close the nght akoye ^ pUimonaly artery, and to be drawn well over to the left side: next, the descending cava is to be divided above the entrance of the vena azygos, and its lower part thrown down. By the removal of some cellular membrane • and lymphatic glands, the right part of the plexus, in which the cervical cardiac branches of the sympathetic and pneumo- gastric nerves of the right side are united, will be seen in front of the trachea, above the right branch of the pul- monary artery. The offsets to the heart should be followed downwards on the trunk of the pulmonary artery ; and those to the right lung should be traced along the branch of that artery. To ex. To lay bare the part of the plexus into which the cervical pose the left part, branches of the sympathetic and vagus nerves of the leftCARDIAC NERVES. 373 b b 3 side of the body enter, the arch maybe cut through a second time, to the left of the junction of the ligamentum arteriosum with it; and that ligament is to be divided, so as to allow the transverse part of the arch to be turned upwards with the great vessels attached to it. The lymphatic glands and the cellular tissue are to be cleared away, as on the opposite side, from the nerves; and the nerves are to be followed downwards to the heart, chiefly to the posterior coronary plexus. In the deep cardiac plexus are united the several cardiac Nerves entering nerves derived from the ganglia of the sympathetic in the the deep neck, except the highest nerve of the left side; and in it are plexus, also collected all the cardiac branches of the vagus nerve both in the neck and the chest, with the exception of its lowest cervical cardiac branch of the left side. This large its situ. 0 ation; centre is situate between the trachea and the arch of the aorta, above the branches of the pulmonary artery; and from it nerves are furnished to the heart and the lungs. The several nerves entering the plexus are not intermingled is form- ° r 3 edoftwo in a ganglionic mass in front of the trachea; but those of Parts> ° ° • right the right side unite together on the corresponding part ofand left- the air tube, and those of the left half of the neck have a like disposition on their side. a. The right part of the plexus is above the right branch of the Right pulmonary artery, and receives the nerves of the right side, viz. formed.™ the cardiac nerves of the sympathetic in the neck, the cardiac branches of the trunk of the vagus, both in the neck and chest, and the cardiac offsets of its recurrent branch. The branches of Branch, this half of the plexus are distributed mostly to the right side of distri- the heart. From its lower end cardiac nerves pass downwards be- I^heart fore and behind the right branch of the pulmonary artery. Those in front of that vessel run on the trunk of the pulmonary artery nearly to the heart, where they send a few twigs behind the vessel, to join the plexus on the posterior coronary artery; and lastly, in the they appear between the aorta and the pulmonary artery, to end in coronary the anterior coronary plexus (p. 350.). The other nerves, those P^xus- that are behind the branch of the pulmonary artery, supply the to root0 right auricle of the heart. Offsets are also sent laterally on the ung' branch of that artery to the nerves of the root of the lung. b. The left half of the plexus is close to the ligamentum arterio- Left J r ,° part; sum, and rather on the left of the trachea. In it are collected the nerves cardiac nerves of the sympathetic cord of the left side of the neck, \ng it" except the highest, and in addition it has numerous and large374 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. offsets branches of the left recurrent nerve of the vagus. Nerves descend toief"d from it around the left branch of the pulmonary artery to the p?exu?ry trunk °f tnat vessel, on which they are continued to the heart ; and after supplying nerves to the left auricle, they terminate in the and to bundle of nerves of the posterior coronary plexus (p. 350.). A lung. considerable offset is directed forwards to the superficial cardiac plexus by the side of the ligamentum arteriosum ; and some nerves reach the anterior pulmonary plexus by passing along the branch of the artery to the lung, other The cardiac branches of the gangliated cord of the sym- cardiac b ° J nerves pathetic nerve in the neck (p. 118.), are now seen at their from the 1 vr n neck, termination in the thorax. The nerves enter the chest on each side, over or beneath the subclavian artery, and join in the deep cardiac plexus, with one exception in the left superficial cardiac branch. ah on ^ On the right side. — Though usually three in number, side there may be but two cardiac nerves on this side, for the enter . . deep highest nerve is sometimes blended with one of the other plexus. . two. The middle and inferior nerves pass beneath the sub- clavian artery to the right half of the deep cardiac plexus. All three communicate with the branches of the recurrent laryngeal nerve of the vagus at the root of the neck, or in the upper part of the thorax, as well as with one another. On left On the left side the superficial or highest cardiac nerve enters passes for the most part over the arch of the aorta, and ends fidau in the superficial cardiac plexus, but it may give a branch deep beneath the arch to the deep plexus. Only one other large plexus. nerye may ke geen entering the left side of the deep cardiac plexus, for oftentimes the middle cardiac throws itself into the lower cardiac nerve. THE TRACHEA AND THE LUNG. To see Dissection.— To see the bronchi, or the divisions of the tnfchea air tube, in the root of the lung, it will be necessary to d?i-Us remove the pulmonary artery and its branches, together with the pulmonary veins. When the transverse part of the arch of the aorta, which has been already cut through, is turned to one side, the dissector will be able to clear away the bronchial glands, the nerves, and the cellular membrane from the part of the trachea in the thorax, and from the branches into which it bifurcates.375 THE AIR TUBE. b b 4 The trachea, or the air tube, reaches from the larynx to Trachea the lun^s, and lies on the front of the spinal column. The lies in the neck tube begins at the lower part of the larynx, opposite the fifth cervical vertebra; and ends at the third dorsal ver- tebra*, by dividing into two pieces (bronchi), one for each and in lung. Its connections in the neck are described at p. 125., thorax, . . , . where it and its structure at p. 174. I he part m the thorax remains ends in bronchi. to be studied. In the thorax the trachea is situate, with the great vessels, its con- in the space between the pleural bags. Here it is covered in the a by the arch of the aorta, by the innominate and left carotid arteries, and by the cardiac plexus of nerves; and super- ficial to the last arteries is the left innominate vein. Behind the air tube is the oesophagus, but this is slightly inclined to the left near the arch of the aorta. On the right side is the vagus, with the innominate artery, for a short distance, after this has passed over the trachea; and on the left side is the vagus with its recurrent branch. The bronchi, or the divisions of the air tube, are con- Bronchi tained in the root of the lung, where they are surrounded roots of by vessels, glands, and nerves. Near the lung each isiungs; divided into as many primary pieces as there are lobes to that organ. In their structure and form the bronchi resemble are like the windpipe, for they are round and cartilaginous in front, trachea but flat, and muscular and membranous behind. Their position behind the other pulmonary vessels has been de- scribed at page 343., but the peculiarities of each are now to be noticed. The right branch is about an inch in length, and is larger The than the left; it passes outwards on a level with the fourth differs dorsal vertebra, and is placed above the right pulmonary left artery: the vena azygos arches over it. The left branch is in about two inches long. It is directed obliquely downwards through the arch of the aorta, and joins the root of the left lung, at a spot a vertebra lower than on the opposite side. In this course the tube lies on the oesophagus and the course, thoracic duct, and on the descending aorta; it is at first nections. below the level of the corresponding pulmonary artery. * The place of its bifurcation is sometimes opposite the fifth dorsal vertebra.DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 376 Remove Dissection.— The lungs are next to be removed from the lungs to body in order that their physical characters and the structure them.me may be learnt. Those bodies will be detached as soon as the vessels of the root are cut through. Next, the remains of the heart and pericardium are to be taken away. To effect their removal the inferior cava is to be divided, and the pericardium to be detached from the surface of the diaphragm ; and in doing this, some care should be taken by the dissector not to injure the parts contained in the interpleural space in front of the spine. Surface PHYSICAL CHARACTERS OF THE LUNG. — The Surface of smooth; tne lung is smooth and shining, in consequence of its pleural is mark- investment. Through the serous covering the mass of the lobules lung may be seen to be divided by cellular septa, and by dark spots or sometimes lines, into small irregularly sized pieces or lobules. On looking closely at the pulmonary and substance, especially at a thin margin, the texture will be cSfs! perceived to be spongy, or composed of minute cells. Colour The tint of the lung varies with age. In infancy the withs colour is a pale red; but in the adult the texture becomes age* grayish in colour, and presents here and there dark gray spots or lines, whose colour deepens with increasing age, Acciden- and becomes even black in old people. From the position iour.°" of the body after death, the colour of the posterior border may be of a bluish black shade. Consist- To the touch the lung is soft and yielding, and on a sec- ence' tion being made into it, the pulmonary substance will appear porous and spongy; but the lung which is deprived of its Crepita- air by pressure has a tough leathery feel. In the ordinary condition of the lung, slight pressure with the thumb and finger drives the air from its containing cells through the pulmonary structure, and produces the noise known as cre- andeias- pitation. If the lung contains serum, a frothy red fluid will thTpuu run out when it is cut. The texture of the lung is very texture, elastic ; this elasticity causing the organ both to diminish greatly when the thorax is opened, and to expel air that may be blown into it. specific The specific gravity of the lung varies with the condi- gravity, ^ong 0f dilatation and collapse, or of infiltration with fluid. When the pulmonary tissue is free from fluid, and filled with air it floats in water; but when it is quite deprived of377 STRUCTURE OF THE LUNG. air it is slightly heavier than water, and sinks in that fluid. The weight of the lung is influenced greatly by the quantity *ne4ght of fluid or other material contained in its texture; ordinarily onhe it varies from eighteen to twenty-one ounces, and the right lung is about two ounces heavier than the left. In the male the lungs are larger, and slightly heavier than in the female. Dissection.—Bv tracing the large branches of the bronchi, Follow J ° & 7 bronchi and the bloodvessels and nerves into the lung, their mode of an,dyes" ° sels into branching will be apparent; and by inflating a part of the the lung- lung, the cellular structure may be seen. But the arrange- ment of the air cells about their tube, and that of the dif- ferent vessels cannot be ascertained without injections, and the use of a microscope. Structure of the Lung. — The spongy pulmonary °fu^[ne structure consists of minute cells, in which the smallest elements of the branches of the air tube terminate ; and the mass of the lung, lung is formed by the collection of those cells into small groups or lobules, and by the aggregation of these into larger masses or lobes. Each lobule is distinct from the surrounding ones, and is furnished with its air tube and nerves, and with its own set of vessels concerned in both its function and nutrition. The constituents of the lung are united by a serous covering, which is prolonged con- tinuously over the surface, and by a subserous cellular coat, which penetrates into the interior, subdividing it into pieces. These several parts are examined more in detail below. Serous and subserous coverings. — The coat derived from serous the pleura is thin and transparent, and forms an entire cap- sule for the lung, except at the root, where the vessels enter. The subserous cellular layer contains fibres of elastic tissue, subse- and not only covers the surface, but extends inwards, esta- £over- blishing the division of the mass into lobules: where itmsis" separates the lobules it is named interlobular cellular tissue, and is there free from fat. Bronchial branches in the lung. — When a bronchus is Divi. folio wed into the pulmonary structure, it is found to divide ofthe generally in a binary order, and to diminish in size at each STSe" subdivision, until one terminal offset appertains to a lobule.lung" In the lobule, the tube has a diameter of ^ to ¥^th of an378 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. till they inch. When this last degree of diminution is arrived at, cells. the tubes give origin to the air cells. Differ- The larger bronchial branches have the same constituent ence in large and parts as the trachea, only these are somewhat differently tubes in arranged; and they are round in the lung, instead of being and in hemispherical as in the trachea. The smallest branches, and torm. tjie a«r ce]is? want some of the common structures ; and those from which the cells spring are irregular in shape, appearing to be spaces amongst the cells rather than tubes with con- tinuous walls. Consti- Changes in the elements of the bronchi. — The modifi- the air cations which the elementary pieces of the air tube undergo the lung, in the bronchial divisions and in the air cells are the follow- ing:— The pieces of cartilage, which are regularly arranged in a line in the trachea, become broken up in the bronchial tubes, and scattered over the wall as irregular fragments. Pieces of Becoming thinner and smaller as the subdivision of the air carti- ° lase- tube proceeds, they at last disappear, and are absent from Fibrous the terminal branches. The fibrous and elastic tissues of tic tis- the bronchial tubes are continued even to the air cells ; but in the small cell-bearing branches, the bundles of elastic tissue are diffused, and the two textures, much diminished in strength, are blended together to form the parietal struc- Mus- ture. The muscular fibres, that exist only at the back of cular J 9 J fibres, the trachea, are diffused over the inner surface of the bron- chi, where they have an annular arrangement, and extend along the air tube beyond the limit of the pieces of cartilage, Mucous but they cease where the cells begin to be formed. The mem- J ( ° brane. mucous membrane becomes thinner as it extends onwards along the air tube, and is finally continued to the cells, where it is transparent. Its ciliated columnar epithelium is changed for nucleated scaly or pavemental in the air cells. Lobules, Lobules and lobes.—A lobule is a cluster of air cells how formed, around a terminal branch of the air tube. Varying in size and shape, the lobule is invested by cellular tissue, and possesses its own offset of the air tube, as well as distinct Lobes, branches of vessels and nerves. The larger masses of the lung, viz. lobes, are produced by the aggregation of the lobules. Nature The air cells are the little sacs or dilatations in which the and form of the air smallest branches of the air tube terminate. They are poly-STRUCTURE OF THE LUNG. 379 hedral in form, except on the surface, and are distinct one from another, save through the channel of the air passage. The cells are clustered in groups around the terminal divi- position • it i on air sion of the air tube, and are situate both along tne sides tubes, and at the extremity of the passage, with which they com- municate by large orifices. In size, these small cells vary size, from J o to T^yth of an inch across, but they are larger on the surface and at the edges than in the deeper parts of the lung. The cell wall is formed by fibrous, with some scattered struc- fibres of elastic tissue, and is lined by a transparent mucous membrane possessing scaly epithelium.* Beneath the mucous lining is a network of the pulmonary vessels. Vessels of the lung. — Two sets of vessels are furnished to vessels . . . of the the lung, one being concerned in its function, the other in lung are its nutrition. The vessels that convey blood to the lung to tionai be aerated, or that carry the same away after it has been nutrient, subjected to the respiratory process, are named pulmonary; whilst the vessels connected with the nutrition of the struc- ture are called bronchial. a. The pulmonary artery after entering the lung, divides like the puimo- bronchus which it accompanies to the lobule. At the lobule the artery arterial branch is minutely subdivided and its ramifications, enter- ing the interlobular fissures, end in a capillary network in the wall of the air cells, beneath the mucous lining. The vascular circle around one cell communicates with the contiguous ones. The pulmonary veins begin in the arterial network before men- and vein; tioned, and the twigs issuing from the several lobules are united in larger tubes, which, in their course to the root of the lung, are not generally located with the arteries and the bronchi. Although the small lobular branches of the arteries remain separate from one another, the corresponding veins anastomose together. b. The bronchial arteries enter the lung on the air tube, and and supply offsets to those tubes and the contiguous bronchial glands, chial to the large bloodvessels, and to the interlobular cellular tissue of artery the lung. The bronchial vein begins by roots corresponding to the and branches of the artery, except in the smallest divisions of the air veln' tubes, the capillaries of which communicate with the pulmonary vessels—most probably the arteries. Nerves and lymphatics.—The lung receives nerves from the vagus Nerves, and the sympathetic, and the offsets follow the divisions of the air * Some excellent observers deny the existence of an epithelial mucous lining to the cells.DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 330 tube. Remak describes small ganglia on the sympathetic fila- Lym- ments. The lymphatics of the lung are both superficial and deep, phatics. an(j enter the bronchial glands at the root of the lung. PARTS IN FRONT OF THE SPINE AND THE CORD OF THE SYMPATHETIC. In front of the spinal column are the several parts enu- merated as lying in the interpleural space of the posterior half of the mediastinum, viz. the aorta, vena azygos, thoracic duct, and oesophagus. Dissec- Dissection.—The small thoracic duct should first be found the parts near the diaphragm, and on the right of the aorta: this men? slender vessel may be injected with tallow. Next, the cel- uoned, ]u]ar membrane is to be cleared away from the different parts before mentioned, and the thoracic duct to be followed upwards beneath the arch of the aorta and along the oeso- phagus, till it leaves the upper aperture of the thorax. The azygos or intercostal veins, one on the right, and two on the left of the aorta, should likewise be dissected, and of After raising the pleura from the inner surface of the thetfc! thorax, the gangliated cord of the sympathetic nerve will be seen lying along the side of the spinal column, over the heads of the ribs. Branches should be followed outwards from the ganglia to the intercostal nerves, and others should be traced inwards over the bodies of the vertebrae to form the three trunks of the splanchnic nerves. Thora- The thoracic aorta is the part of the great systemic Extenta' vessel> which is above the diaphragm. Its extent is from the lower border of the third dorsal vertebra (the left side), where the arch ceases, to the front of the last dorsal ver- course, tebra. Contained in the interpleural space, in front of the spine, the vessel is rather arched in its course, lying at its upper part on the left, but at its lower part on the front of the spine, so that the resulting curve has its convexity turned to the left. In front of the vessel is the root of the and con- left lung with the pericardium. On the left side, in all its ' length, it is covered by the pleura ; and on the right side are the oesophagus and the thoracic duct, but near the dia- phragm the former is placed over the aorta. Beneath the vessel are the vertebrae and the smaller azygos vein. Branch- The branches of the vessel are distributed to the sur-381 BRANCHES OF THORACIC AORTA. rounding parts, and are named from their destination, viz. bronchial, pericardial, oesophageal, mediastinal, and inter- costal. 1. The bronchial arteries supply the structure of the Arteries lungs, and arise from the front of the aorta, but their num- lung, ber and place of origin are liable to vary. These vessels Distri- adhere to the posterior part of the bronchial tubes, and so enter the interior of the lung, in which they ramify (p. 379.); they give some twigs to the bronchial glands and the oeso- phagus. a. The artery of the right lung arises either in common with One one of the left bronchial arteries (superior), or from the first inter- nsht' costal artery of the right side. b. For the left lung there are two arteries (superior and in- two left, ferior), that arise from the aorta at a distance one from another. Bronchial veins. — One vein issues from the root of each yein of the lung. lung, to end in the following manner : — the right one joins the larger azygos vein ; and the left ends in 'the superior intercostal vein of its own side. 2. The pericardial branches are some-irregular twigs that *^icar" are furnished to the posterior part of the cardiac covering. branch- 3. (Esophageal branches arise at different points of the ceso- aorta, and are four or five in number. Ramifying in the branch- structure of the gullet, these vessels anastomose with one es* another; above, they communicate with branches of the inferior thyroid artery near the pharynx, and below, with twigs of the coronary artery of the stomach. 4. Small mediastinal branches (posterior) supply the eel- t¥e^ias- lular tissue and the glands in the posterior part of the inter- branch- pleural space. 5. The intercostal arteries are commonly ten or nine in inter- number on each side, and are furnished to the same number arteries, of the lower intercostal spaces. To the other one or two Number, upper spaces branches are supplied from the intercostal artery of the subclavian trunk. These small vessels arise -Pirec- J tion to from the posterior part of the aorta, and run outwards on the in-, 11 7 tercostal the vertebrae, and beneath the cord of the sympathetic nerve, spaces, to the intercostal spaces, where each divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. In this course the upper branches have a somewhat oblique, and the lower a transverse direc- tion. As the aorta lies on the left of the spine, the right ^ng^st.382 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. branches are the longest, and pass beneath the oesophagus, the thoracic duct, and the vena azygos major ; they supply many twigs to the bodies of the vertebrae on which they lie. The an- a. The anterior branch is the continuation of the common trunk tenor branch in direction and size. At first this artery lies in the centre of the fntercos- intercostal space, beneath the pleura and a fascia prolonged back- tai space war(js from the internal intercostal muscle, and resting on the external intercostal muscular layer. But near the angle of the rib it ascends to the upper limit of the space, and then continues onwards between the intercostal strata nearly to the anterior third of the thoracic wall, where it ends in two branches that anastomose with the intercostal arteries of the internal mammary (p. 263.). with Accompanying the artery are the intercostal nerve and vein, — the and vein, vein being commonly above, and the nerve below it; but in the upper spaces the nerve is at first higher than the artery, though it Offsets, soon takes its place below that vessel. Branches are furnished to the layers of intercostal muscles and to the ribs : about the centre (from front to back) of the intercostal space a superficial twig ac- companies the cutaneous nerve. Anasto- The upper artery of the set anastomoses with the superior inter- moses. costal branch of the subclavian artery ; and those below the true ribs enter the abdominal wall, and anastomose in it with the arteries of that part. Poste- b. The posterior branch turns backwards between the vertebra branch and the ascending costo-transverse ligament, and is distributed in thebaSi. the back. As it passes by the intervertebral foramen it furnishes a small spinal branch to the vertebras and the spinal cord. — (See Vessels of the Spinal Cord.) inter. The intercostal vein closely resembles the artery in its costal vein. course and branching. Near the head of the rib it receives a contributing dorsal branch, and then joins the azygos vein, superior The superior intercostal artery of the subclavian trunk is costal referred to in the dissection of the neck (p. 74.). Descending fade? over the neck of the first rib, external to the ganglion of the rived ... from sympathetic, it supplies a branch to the first intercostal vian. space : continuing to the second space, which it may supply oneor68 m l^e manner, it ends by anastomosing with the upper spaces, aortic intercostal branch. Each intercostal offset from it divides into an anterior and a posterior branch, like the arteries from the aorta. The The vein corresponding to the artery is differently disposed on the on tne two sides. On the right it opens into the subclavianPEEVEETEBEAL VEINS. 383 or the innominate vein. On the left side the superior inter- right and on costal vein is formed by branches from the two or three left side, highest spaces; it is joined by the left bronchial vein, and ends in the left innominate vein, after crossing the arch of the aorta. The PEEVETEBEAL OE AZYGOS VEINS are two in number, Two azygos large and small, and receive branches corresponding to the veins, offsets furnished by the thoracic aorta. By means of the larger vein, the inferior cava communicates with the supe- rior, so that blood may reach the heart from the lower part of the body or vice versa, if one of the cavse should be obliterated. The smaller or left azygos vein (inferior) begins in S™all>or the abdomen, in the lumbar veins of the left side of the vertebral column. Having entered the thorax along with begins in the aorta, or through the crus of the diaphragm, the vein men, ascends on the left of the aorta as high as the seventh or eighth dorsal vertebra, and then crosses beneath that vesselends in & ' > larger and the thoracic duct to end in the larger or right vein, azygos. It receives the four or five lower intercostal veins of the left Branch- es. side, and some oesophageal and mediastinal veins. Most commonly there is a second left azygos vein (supe- There rior Breschet), which is formed by offsets from the spaces another - azygos between the superior intercostal and the highest branch of vein, the small azygos vein. Receiving three or four branches, the trunk either joins the lower azygos, or crosses the spine to open separately into the larger vein. The larger or right azygos vein begins in the lumbar Large ^ veins on the right side of the spine, and its origin is de- azygos scribed with the vessels of the abdomen. It enters the right side of thorax through the aortic opening of the diaphragm, and spine, ascends on the right side of the thoracic duct, over the inter- costal arteries and the bodies of the vertebras. Opposite the and joins superior third intercostal space, the vein arches forwards above the cava, root of the right lung, and enters the superior cava as this vessel pierces the pericardium. Its valves are very incom- plete, so that the intraspinal and intercostal veins may be injected through it. Branches, — In this vein are collected the intercostals of Branch- the right side below the upper two spaces; some of the ingJ it? intercostals of the left side of the thorax, by means of the384 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. left azygos veins ; some oesophageal, mediastinal, and verte- bral veins, and the right bronchial vein, raso- The (esophagus is a hollow muscular tube which extends phagus is partly from the pharynx to the stomach. The cervical part of the in neck L r 1 tube has been described at page 126., and the thoracic part is now to be examined, partly in Entering the thorax rather to the left of the middle line, thorax ^ne gu^e^ *s directed inwards beneath the arch of the aorta, where it an(j reaches the centre of the spine about the fourth or fifth front of dorsal vertebra. From that spot it is continued through the spine, greater part of the interpleural space on the right of the through aorta? and superficial to the other contiguous bodies; but at phragm. ^ne l°wer Part °f tne thorax, it is again inclined to the left, over the aorta, to gain the oesophageal opening of the dia- Parts phragm. As far as the arch of the aorta the oesophagus covering it, lies beneath the trachea, though it is inclined somewhat to the left of the air tube ; but beyond the arch it is crossed by the left bronchus, and is concealed by the pericardium, down on the to the diaphragm. In this extent the tube is covered on the sides by the pleurae, and lies, below the arch, on the left of and^be- the aorta. At the upper part of the thorax the oesophagus will be found to rest on the longus colli muscle and the ver- tebra? ; but below the arch of the aorta it is separated from the spine by the intercostal vessels, and lastly it lies on the aorta. Below the situation of the bronchus the pneumo- gastric nerves surround the oesophagus with their branches, and above the same spot the thoracic duct will be found to the left of the tube. Three Structure.—If a piece of the middle of the gullet be in it. removed and distended with cotton wool, it will be found to consist of a muscular, a cellular, and a mucous coat. a mus- a. The muscular coat is thick and strong, and consists of coat.r two layers of fibres ; the external of these is longitudinal, and the internal circular in direction, like the muscular tunic of the other parts of the alimentary tube. In the upper third of the oesophagus the fibres are red, and have the striped character; but they gradually change, so that at the lower end they are pale, and are mostly of the unstriped kind. ofexter- The external layer is formed of parallel longitudinal gftudinai fibres, which form an entire covering, and end below on the385 LYMPHATICS OF THE THORAX. stomach. The fibres begin by longitudinal bands opposite the cricoid cartilage (p. 136.). The internal layer of circular fibres is continuous above J^jj" with the fibres of the pharynx; these are more oblique at ^"slar the middle than at either end of the oesophagus. b. The cellular layer is between the muscular and mucous ^Jular coats, and attaches one to the other loosely. c. The mucous coat or lining will be seen on cutting open M^ous the tube to be reddish in colour above, but pale below, and of some thickness. It is very loosely connected with the mus- cular coat, and is thrown into longitudinal folds when the oesophagus is contracted. Lining the interior is a thick layer of scaly epithelium, and the surface is studded with minute papillae. Some compound glands (oesophageal) are scattered along some^ the tube ; and at the lower part of the gullet they form a ring (cardiac glands) close to the stomach. Lymphatics of the Thorax.—In the thorax there are in the lymphatic vessels both of the wall and the viscera, which lymph- enter collections of glands in certain positions, and end in glands and duct. either the one or the other of the two lymphatic ducts. Besides these, the large thoracic duct traverses the thorax in its course from the abdomen to the neck. a. Lymphatic glands, — Along the course of the internal several mammary artery is a chain of sternal or mediastinal glands, glands, which receive lymphatics from the front of the chest, the which thymus gland, the pericardium, and the upper surfaces of lymph- the diaphragm and liver. On each side of the spine, near collect- the heads of the ribs as well as between the intercostal mus- cles, is a set of intercostal glands, that receives the lymphatics of the posterior wall of the thorax. At the division and along the trachea are numerous bronchial glands, through which the lymphatics of the lung pass. And beneath the arch of the aorta are a few cardiac glands, which receive the lymphatics of the heart. Along the side of the aorta and oesophagus is a chain of oesophageal glands, which are joined by the lymphatics of the oesophagus, and communicate with those of the lungs. b. The thoracic duct is the great channel by which the Thoracic lymphatic and lacteal fluid of all the lower half of the body, and that of the left side of the upper half of the body, isDISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 386 begins in conveyed to the blood. The duct begins in the abdomen in domen an enlargement (chyli receptaculum), and ends in the left in neck, subclavian vein of the neck. It is from eighteen to twenty inches in length, and is contained in the thorax, except Connec- at its origin and termination. It has the undermentioned in°the connections :—Entering the cavity on the right side of the thorax. aorta an(j through the same opening, the duct ascends on the right of that vessel, between it and the vena azygos, as high as the arch. Opposite the second dorsal vertebra it passes beneath the arch of the aorta and the left subclavian artery, and is applied to the left side of the oesophagus, by which it is conducted to the neck. Lastly, at the lower part of the neck, the duct arches outwards, as before described (p. 123.), Maybe to open into the left subclavian vein. In this course the tube is oftentimes divided in two, which unite again, or it may even form a plexus ; and near its termination it is generally is fur- branched. It is provided with valves, like a vein, at intervals, ™uhed and these are in greater number at the upper than at the valves' lower part. Occasionally the duct may be found on the left instead of the right side of the aorta. Receives Branches. — In the thorax the duct receives the lym- aticsP.h" phatics of the left half of the wall of the cavity, viz. from the sternal and intercostal glands ; also, the lymphatics of the left lung, those of the left side of the heart, and those of the trachea and oesophagus. Right c. The right lymphatic duct, though not in the thorax, is duct mainly formed by the large branches received from the is in the viscera in that cavity. It is a short trunk at the lower part neck" of the neck, which is about half an inch in length, and opens into the angle of union of the subclavian and jugular veins of the same side (p. 75.). Its opening is guarded by valves, it re- Branches. — Into this trunk the lymphatics of the right lymph- upper limb, and the right side of the head and neck pour the^arm their contents. In addition, the lymphatics of the right side the ° of the chest, those of the right lung and the right side of the heart, and some from the right lobe of the liver, after passing through their respective glands, unite into a few large trunks that ascend beneath the innominate vein to reach the duct in the neck. Their Structure of the ducts.—The wall of these tubes resembles ture in its structure that of the blood vessels :—it has an externalCORD OF THE SYMPATHETIC. 387 stratum of areolar tissue ; an inner lining of thin nucleated like epithelium ; and a middle coat formed chiefly of circular vessels, fibres, like those in the blood vessels. Cord of the Sympathetic Nerve. — The thoracic part ^oracic of the gangliated cord of the sympathetic nerve lies on each ^™Pa~ side of the spinal column, and is placed over the heads of the ribs and the intercostal vessels. The ganglia present on it has ° 0 A twelve are usually twelve, one being opposite each dorsal nerve, but ganglia, this number varies much: of these, the upper one is the largest; and the last two are rather anterior to the line of the others, being situate on the side of the bodies of the cor- responding vertebras. In the chest the sympathetic nerve is covered by the pleura, and it is continuous above and below and is covered with the cord in the neck and the abdomen. by pieu- Each ganglion furnishes external branches to communicate Branch- with the spinal nerves, and internal or visceral branches. es Connecting branches. — Two offsets pass outwards from to join each ganglion to join a spinal nerve (intercostal). In the spinal branches of communication both spinal and sympatheticnerves nerve fibres are combined; but one consists almost entirely of white, and the other nearly altogether of sympathetic nerve fibres. The internal branches differ in size and distribution, ac- to supply cording as they are derived from the upper or the lower six •ganglia. The branches of the upper six are very small, and are In the distributed to the aorta, and the vertebrae and their liga- sixgan. ' & gliaoff- ments. Mr. Swan describes a plexus in front of the spine, sets are n n smalL as formed by the union of the branches of opposite sides. From the third and fourth ganglia offsets enter the posterior pulmonary plexus. The branches of the lower six ganglia are larger and J^J1® much whiter than the others, and are united together to six> . large and form visceral nerves (splanchnic) of the abdomen. These wnite> v 1 J and form splanchnic nerves are three in number (large, small, and three nerves. smallest), and pierce the diaphragm to end in the solar or the renal plexus. a. The great splanchnic nerve is a large white cord, which Great arises by roots apparently from only four or five ganglia nic, (sixth to the tenth), but its fibres may be traced upwards on the knotted cord as hish as the third ganglion. The nerve whichDISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 388 ends in descends on the bodies of the vertebras, pierces the fibres of lunar the crus of the diaphragm, and ends in the semilunar gan- ganghon. ^j.^ Q£ ^e aJ^onien.—(gee ^ERVES OF THE ABDOMEN.) At the lower part of the thorax the nerve may be divided into large bundles, and it may present a ganglion, or more than one, on its different bundles, small b. The small splanchnic nerve is formed by roots from the splanch- x . . nic tenth, and eleventh ganglia, or their intervening cord : and in the thorax it communicates sometimes with the great joins splanchnic nerve. It is transmitted inferiorly through the plexus, crus of the diaphragm, and enters the part of the solar plexus by the side of the coeliac artery. smallest c. The smallest splanchnic nerve begins in the last gan- splanch- r, ° & . nic ends glion, and accompanies the other nerves through the dia- in renal 1 plexus., phragm. In the abdomen it ends in the renal plexus. When this nerve is absent, its place is taken by a branch of the preceding nerve. Position Parts in the upper aperture of the thorax. — The relative in the position of the several bodies that enter or leave the thorax aperture, by the upper opening may now be studied, in mid- In the middle line lie the trachea and the oesophagus, with the remains of the thymus gland. In front of those parts are the lower ends of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid mus- cles, and behind them is the longus colli muscle : between the two tubes is the recurrent nerve of the left side. Oneach On each side the bag of the pleura and the apex of the lung project into the neck ; and between the pleura and the trachea and oesophagus, are found the several vessels and nerves that pass from the thorax to the neck, or in the op- Partiy posite direction. On both sides, there is the innominate onVoth6 vein with the phrenic and pneumo-gastric nerves, but ^part-farther back the objects on the two sides are different: — lynot. thus, on the right side, come the innominate artery and the cardiac nerves ; but on the left side, the left common carotid artery, the thoracic duct, and the left subclavian artery with the cardiac nerves. Lastly, altogether behind, on both sides, are the cord of the sympathetic, the first intercostal nerve, and the superior intercostal artery. PARIETES OF THE THORAX. soft Between the ribs, forming part of the wall of the thorax,PARIETES OF THE THORAX. 389 are the two layers of intercostal muscles, with the inter- parts vening nerves and arteries. At the base of the thorax is mg the the diaphragm, which bounds the cavity in this direction. Intercostal Muscles. — The anterior part of these inter- costal muscles has been described with the wall of the thorax in muscles, the dissection of the upper limb (p. 261.). The posterior part of the same muscles may now be examined from the inner side. The internal intercostal muscle is fixed to the inner inner . layer margin of the ribs bounding the intercostal space. Begin- ning at the sternum, it reaches backwards only to the angle reaches of the ribs in the middle spaces, but above and below the head of muscular fibres approach nearer the spine. Where the muscle ceases, a thin fascia is prolonged from it to the spine. The inner surface is lined by the pleura, and the opposite surface is in contact with the intercostal nerve c0nnec- and vessels. tlons* The infra-costal muscles are small slips of fleshy fibres, infra- that are situate on the inner surface of the ribs, where the position internal intercostals cease. Apparently part of the inner attach- intercostals, they arise from the inner surface of one rib, and ments' are attached below to the upper border and internal surface of the rib next succeeding. They are uncertain in number, irregu- but there may be nine : they are smaller above than below,lantles- and the upper and lower may pass over more than one space. External intercostal muscle. — Between the posterior outer border of the internal muscle and the spine, when the fascia layer and the muscles above referred to have been removed, the external intercostal muscle will be seen. Its attachments extends are connected above and below with the margins of two con- head of tiguous ribs, and its fibres cross those of the internal mus- the nb* cular layer. Whilst this muscle extends backwards to the spinal column, it does not reach farther forwards than the cartilages of the ribs, as before seen (p. 261.). Dissection. — In a few spaces the internal intercostal Trace muscle may be cut through, and the intercostal nerve and nerves* artery traced outwards. The intercostal nerves are the anterior primary branches inter- of the dorsal nerves. In distribution they differ from the nerves390 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. «re not ^ other spinal nerves of the body, inasmuch as they course a plexus, forwards almost horizontally to the middle line, without being united together in a plexus. Twelve in number they occupy the intercostal spaces, except the last, and this is below Upper the twelfth rib. There is the following difference between six are ° in the the upper and the lower nerves, viz. that the upper six lie spaces; AL 7 1 1 lower six between the ribs in all their extent, and are confined to the leave ' them in wall of the thorax, whilst the lower six enter the abdominal front. wall where the ribs cease in front, connec- At the posterior part of the chest the nerves are seen to with He at first between the pleura and the external intercostal Ses- muscle, with an artery and vein ; but they soon enter be- tween the two strata of the intercostal muscles, and extend forwards to the middle line of the body, as before said, with the Near the head of the rib each nerve is joined by filaments thetlc! from the sympathetic. In its course it supplies branches to offsets. tjie intercostal muscles of the ribs ; as well as cutaneous offsets to the surface, which are described in the dissections of the upper limb (p. 247.), and the wall of the abdomen* Excep- There are some deviations in the first and second nerves two first, from the general arrangement above specified. First The first nerve ascends in front of the neck of the upper enters riD, and ends in the brachial plexus. Before it leaves the plexus, chest, it supplies a small branch to the first intercostal space; this extends forwards furnishing muscular offsets, Has not, and becomes cutaneous by the side of the sternum. But cutSle7-' there is not any lateral cutaneous branch from this nerve, branch, except in those cases in which the next nerve is not as large as usual. second The second nerve may extend a considerable way on the wall of the chest before entering between the intercostal muscles, and may ascend even to the first space. It is re- markable in having a very; large lateral cutaneous branch (p. 247.). In front it ends like the others. Form of Upper surface of the diaphragm. — The anatomy of the suFface diaphragmatic partition between the thorax and the abdomen phragm. will be specially described with the deep muscles of the latter cavity. The arch of the muscle towards the thorax has been before referred to (p. 237.): the centre of the arch is Parts in tendinous, but the sides are fleshy. In contact with the contact J with it. upper surface are the lungs, one on each side, and the391 LIGAMENTS OF THE TRUNK. pericardium in the middle. In the muscle are the fol- Aper- tures in lowing apertures:—one tor the oesophagus and the pneumo- it. gastric nerves, another for the vena cava, and a third for the aorta with the thoracic duct and the vena azjgos. The phrenic vessels and nerves enter the upper surface, external to the pericardium; and the splanchnic and sympathetic nerves are transmitted to the abdomen through the posterior part. Directions. — The dissector of the thorax now waits while The dis- section the dissection of the back is made. Afterwards he is to of the back is examine the ligaments of the ribs, and those of the spine: a now ° A made. notice of these will be found in the following section. Section II. LIGAMENTS OF THE TRUNK. The ligaments connecting together the vertebrae, the ribs to Enume- the spinal column and the sternum, and the pieces of the the liga- • • ments. sternum one to another, are described in this section. Articulation of the Ribs. — The rib is united to the a rib is vertebrae on the one side, and to the sternum on the other, with the by three sets of ligaments, viz. one between the head of the and the bone and the bodies of the vertebrae; a second from its neck and tubercle to the transverse processes of the vertebrae ; and a third, for each true rib, between its cartilage and the sternum. Dissection. — For the purpose of examining the ligaments Tosee between the head and neck of the rib and the vertebrae, take mints a piece of the spinal column with three or four ribs attached, verte! After removing the intercostal muscles and the cellularbnB* membrane from the surface of the bones, the student will be able to define the following under-mentioned ligaments, as these pass to the spinal column and the transverse pro- cesses. The ligaments attaching the costal cartilage to the rib and To rib the sternum are to be dissected on the part of the anterior num!ter wall of the thorax that was removed in opening the thoracic cavity. A. Ligaments from the head of the rib. — The head of the Liga-392 DISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. of head rib is received into a hollow on the side of the bodies of are two contiguous vertebrae, except in the first, eleventh, and twelfth ribs; and the articulation is provided with two re- taining ligaments—costo-vertebral and interarticular, and two synovial sacs, costo- The costo-vertebral ligament, which is also named stellate brai or from its form, is composed of radiating fibres, and fixes the stellate, . /» i rib to two vertebras. It consists of three sets of fibres: — the upper set, the largest, is attached to the body of the ver- tebra above the rib; the lower one descends to the inferior of the two vertebras with which the head articulates; and the central part is united with the fibro-cartilage between those vertebras. inter. The interarticular ligament will be seen when the stellate articu- ijgament js divided. It is a short thin band, which is attached on one side to the ridge separating the articular surfaces on the head of the rib, and becomes blended by the other end with the interosseous substance between the ver- tebras. In the first, eleventh, and twelfth ribs it is absent, with two Synovial sacs. — There are two sacs in the articulation, one on each side of the interarticular ligament, except in the three ribs before mentioned, where there is but one articular surface for each bone. Liga- B. Ligaments from the neck and tubercle of the rib.— necko?f Three ligaments (costo-transverse) pass from the neck and . nb> tubercle of the rib to the transverse processes. And there is one synovial sac between the rib and its transverse process. anterior The anterior costo-transverse ligament is larger and trans- longer than the others, and ascends from the upper border verse. ^ ^ neck 0f ^e rjjj to t|ie iower e(jge 0f ^e tranverse process of the upper of the two vertebras with which the head of the rib is connected. It is wanting in the first and last ribs. Between this ligament and the vertebras the pos- terior branches of the intercostal artery and dorsal nerve pass backwards. Pos- The posterior costo-transverse is placed at the posterior costo- aspect of the rib. It is a short band of fibres between the ferse" tip of the transverse process of the lower of the two ver- tebras with which the head articulates, and the rough part covers a of the tubercle of the rib. If the fibres are divided, a syno-393 LIGAMENTS OF THE RIBS AND STERNUM. vial membrane will be found in the joint, but this is absent ^ovial in the two lowest ribs. The middle or interosseous costotransverse is placed hori- Middle A costo- zontally between the neck of the rib and the transverse trans. * t verse. process with which the tubercle articulates. It will be best seen by sawing horizontally through the rib and the trans- verse process. Its fibres are mixed with reddish cellular membrane. C. Ligaments from the cartilages of the ribs. —The costal Union cartilages of the true ribs are united to the sternum by costal ° . . J carti- anterior and posterior ligaments, which cover a synovial lages membrane; and they are further joined externally to the bony part of the rib. Some of the lower cartilages touch, and are connected together by fibrous bands and synovial membrane. a. In the chondro-sternal articulation, the cartilages ofwiththe \ ° ster- the true ribs are received into the depressions on the side of num; the sternum, and are fixed in position by surrounding fibres, but chiefly in front and behind, where they give rise to an anterior and a posterior ligament. Between the cartilage and the articular surface of the bone is a synovial mem- brane. A separate band of fibres passes between the carti- lage of the seventh rib and the xiphoid cartilage, and is named costo-xiphoid ligament b. Costal cartilage ivith the rib.—The bony part of the with the rib is hollowed to receive the costal cartilage, and the two are united only by the investing membrane of the rib. c. One costal cartilage to another. — The contiguous sur-with one faces of the costal cartilages, from the sixth to the ninth, are er* connected by ligamentous fibres, and the articulations are provided with synovial membranes. Articulation of the Pieces of the Sternum. — The union of n • Tiii pieces of upper piece 01 the sternum is connected to the lower by an- sternum, terior and posterior longitudinal fibres, and between them is an intervening cartilage. Articulation of the Vertebrae. — The several vertebrae Two sets composing the spinal column are united together by two sets menu" of ligaments—one between the bodies, and the other be- the ver- tween the processes of the bones. These ligaments have a general resemblance along the spinal column, and one description will suffice for all except394 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. for those between the first two vertebrae and the head, and those between the bones of the pelvis. The description of the special ligaments, thus excepted, will be found in the dissection of the neck (p. 179.) and in that of the ligaments of the pelvis. How to Dissection, — After the dissection of the ligaments of the see the fe iSigVaeral r^s' ^e same piece of the spinal column will serve for the ments. ligaments of the bodies and the articular processes of the vertebrae. It is supposed that the spinal canal has been opened to examine the spinal cord, and that the posterior ligament of the bodies of the vertebrae is therefore laid bare, but if the canal should not be opened, the arches of the ver- tebrae must be sawn through close to the articular processes. The anterior ligament of the bodies will be prepared with very little trouble, by only removing the cellular tissue. The remaining ligaments between the arches and spines of the bones may be defined on those pieces that have been taken away in opening the spinal canal. The A. Ligaments of the bodies of the vertebrce. — The bodies a?eies of the vertebrae are united by an anterior and a posterior bylted common ligament, and by intervening pieces of fibro-car- tilage. Anterior The anterior common ligament is whiter and stronger than the posterior, and reaches from the atlas to the sacrum : it is widest opposite the lumbar vertebrae, and becomes narrower as it is traced upwards. Its fibres are longitudinal in direction, and consist of a superficial and a deep layer: length, by detaching the ligament, the superficial fibres will be seen tach- to reach the length of three or more vertebrae, whilst the ment of ° its fibres, deep pass from bone to bone. At its attachment, a greater number of the fibres are found to be connected with the intervertebral fibro-cartilages than with the bones; and more are fixed to the margins than to the centre of the body of a vertebra. Its outline is uneven, for it is broader over the bodies of the vertebrae than on the intervertebral and substance; and if the ligament be cut across at intervals it will be found to be thickest opposite the hollow part of the body of the vertebra. Pos- The posterior common ligament is contained in the spinal common liga- ment, varies in width, in thick, ness. common canal, lying on the posterior aspect of the bodies of the ver- men't tebrae, and extends from the sacrum to the occipital bone.LIGAMENTS OF THE VERTEBRAE. 395 This ligament is wide above, and diminishes in size down- is wide 7 , n j i . . at parts; wards, just the opposite ot the anterior: in the neck it is loose, and extends all across the bodies of the vertebrae, whilst in the loins it is only a thin narrow band. Opposite the dorsal and lumbar intervertebral substance it is wider than at the centre of the body of the vertebrae, and sends off on each side a pointed process to be attached to the pedicle of the neural arch, so that the margins are zigzag or dentate in those regions of the spine. Its fibres are superficial and j£^ch- deep as in the anterior ligament, and are more closely united and with the intervertebral substance than with the bone. One connec- • • tions. surface of the ligament is in contact with the dura mater; and between the opposite surface and the vertebrae are the large veins issuing from the bones. Dissection.— To see the intervertebral substance, the ante- To see the in- rior and posterior common ligaments must be taken away. One vertebra should be detached from the interveninsf fibro- sub- ° stance. cartilage to obtain a horizontal view of it; and two other vertebrae should be sawn vertically to see the difference in the consistence, and the arrangement of the laminae. The intervertebral substance is placed between the con- inter- tiguous surfaces of the bodies of the vertebrae, from the axis sub- to the sacrum. Taking the shape of the vertebrae it forms has the an almost circular disc between those bones ; and it is con- Jjjj|pe of nected, in front and behind, with the anterior and posterior bones» common ligaments, and, on the side, with the stellate liga- ments of the heads of the ribs. These masses are thicker and gives between the lumbar and cervical, than between the dorsal curves to vertebrae; and where the spinal column is arched forwards, spine, as in the loins and neck, they are deepest at the anterior edge. By means of the dissections before made, the interverte- Consti- bral substance may be observed to consist of two distinct plrts\ parts; an external, firm and laminar, and an internal, soft and elastic. The outer laminar part forms more than half of the disc, the outer and is composed of a series of plates of fibro-cartilage, alter- of lami- nating with strata of fibrous tissue. The strata are arranged ; ° o how ar- in layers one within another, like the scales of an onion, and ranged; are connected by their edges to the bodies of the vertebrae ; but all have not a vertical position between the vertebrae, for not ver- tical ;396 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. the external pieces are bent, so that the convexity is towards the surface, and the internal have the convexity towards the centre of the disc. The laminae of the fibro-cartilage form complete rings less frequently than those composed of fibrous fibres tissue. Each layer is constructed of oblique fibres, and the cross, fibres of one layer are directed across those of another like the parts of the letter X. This disposition of the fibres will be best seen on the discs between the lumbar vertebrae ; and it may be rendered evident by dissecting layer after layer, inner The central portion of the disc is very soft and elastic, part . and projects when two vertebrae and the interposed mass without are sawn through. It has a yellowish colour, and is deficient marked . .« . strata; m the stratiform arrangement so conspicuous at the circum- ference. Towards the confines of the two portions of the tiontruc" intervertebral substance, there is still an alternating arrange- ment of fibrous tissue and fibro-cartilage, though the former is gradually diminishing; but towards the centre a loose fibrocartilaginous material preponderates, and amongst it are spaces containing fluid. Cartilage The surfaces of the vertebrae in contact with the discs, covering bones, have a cartilaginous covering. This may be seen by cutting the intervertebral substance from the bone. Over the centre of the osseous surface it forms a continuous layer, but towards the circumference it consists of separate pieces. Several B. Ligaments of the processes of the vertebrce. — The ments of several processes of the vertebrae have special uniting liga- tebrai meiits i — thus the articular processes are joined by a cap- cesses, sular ligament and a synovial membrane ; the plates of the vertebrae are connected by yellow ligaments; the spinous processes have one band along the tip and another between them ; and the transverse processes are provided with inter- vening bands of fibres. To the a. Liqaments of the articular processes. — Between the articular, o u x suie°and articulating processes there is a moveable joint. The bones sac- are covered with cartilage, and are surrounded by a loose capsular ligament of scattered fibres, which encloses a syno- vial membrane. In the cervical region of the spine, the capsular ligaments are larger and looser than in the dorsal or lumbar part. Those b. Ligaments of the arches. — The ligamenta sub/lava, so arches named from their colour, are situate between the plates orLIGAMENTS OF THE VERTEBRAE. 397 arches of the vertebrae, and close the spinal canal behind, are two /» . to each In the interval between the arches ot two continuous verte- space, brae, are two somewhat square ligaments, one for each half of the arch, which approach one another along the middle line. Each consists of elastic yellow tissue, and is attached Attach- above to the inner surface of the arch, but below to the upper border, and somewhat to the outer surface of the correspond- ing part of the arch next below. On each side the ligament reaches from the articular process to the root of the spinous process. Between the first two vertebrae and the skull there are special fibrous ligaments in the corresponding situation (see p. 179.). c. Ligaments of the spines.—Along the tips of the spinous Those processes of the dorsal and lumbar vertebrae is a longitudinal spines band of fibres, or the supraspinous ligament. It is thicker j^onst. in the lumbar than in the dorsal region of the spine, and is formed by superficial and deep fibres; the former reaching over three or more spines, whilst the latter pass from bone to bone. It is closely united with the tendons of the muscles. The ligamentum nuchae takes its place in the neck. Along the spinal column there are also thin and somewhat and be- tween membranous interspinous ligaments, which reach from the the . spines. root to the tip of the spinous process. The strength of these bands is dependant upon the interval they have to fill; therefore they are more marked in the lumbar than in the other vertebrae, and they are least strong in the cervical region. d. Ligaments of the transverse processes.—In the loins Those the intertransverse ligaments are thin membranous bands in trans- the intervals between the processes. In the dorsal vertebrae pro- cesses. they are round bundles of fibres. And in the neck the fibres exist only at the apex of the processes, or they may be wanting here and there.398 CHAPTER V. DISSECTION OF THE BACK. How the According- to the mode of dividing the body, the dissection tion is to of the back will in one school be allotted to one student; and be con- . -1-1* -n i i • * ducted, in another school it will be undertaken conjointly by the dissectors of the head and upper limbs, — one preparing the cervical, the others the dorsal and lumbar regions. If the last arrangement should be the one adopted, the dissector of the upper limb may give his attention only to those para- graphs that are marked with an asterisk ; and the dissector of the neck may take, for the most part, the paragraphs which are not so marked. Position Position.—For this dissection the body lies with the face of bod>. ^ownwar(jg . an(j the trunk is to be raised by blocks beneath the chest and the pelvis, so that the limbs may hang over the end and sides of the dissecting table. To make tense the neck, the head is to be depressed and fastened with hooks. Dissec- Dissection.—In the back the student will meet with suc- tion cessive strata of large muscles, five in all, amongst which vessels and nerves are interspersed. to raise The first step in the dissection is to raise the skin from the surface in two flaps, by means of the following incisions : — One cut is to be made along the middle line of the body, from the occipital protuberance to the back of the sacrum: another incision is to be carried from the last dorsal verte- bra to the acromion process of the scapula. The flap of skin above the last cut is to be turned outwards by both dissectors. The remaining piece of integument is to be detached by a transverse incision opposite the crest of the ilium, and then to be reflected by the dissector of the upper limb, in the same direction as the other flap. Under the upper flap of skin islbe trapezius, and underneath the lower one is the latissimus dorsi muscle. seek The cutaneous nerves may now be sought in the subcu-CUTANEOUS NERVES. 399 taneous cellular layer. These nerves vary much in size in cuta- neous the different parts of the back, and their number is also nerves, irregular: as a general rule, there is one corresponding to each vertebra. In the neck, and opposite the upper part of the thorax, the nerves will be found near the spines of the vertebra?, and beneath the superficial fat; but over the lower part of the thorax, and in the loins, they issue in a line with the angles of the ribs. Small cutaneous arteries accompany the nerves, and guide the student to their posi- tion. The cutaneous branches of the sacral nerves come into the dissection of the lower limb. Cutaneous Nerves. — The tegumentary nerves of the cuta- , 0 ^ % neous back are derived from the posterior trunks of the spinal nerves A m A how de- nerves ; these are divided into two, inner and outer, and the «ved. cutaneous offsets are derived at one part from the external, and at another from the internal branch. Small arteries accompany the greater number of the nerves; these bifur- cate like the nerves, and the cutaneous offsets are derived in the same way from the one or the other branch. Cervical nerves. — In the neck the nerves are derived from the in the inner of the two branches into which the trunks bifurcate: they neck< perforate the trapezius, and supply the neck and the back of the head. They are four in number, viz. one from each nerve, ex- cept the first, and the three last. The branch of the second nerve is named large occipital, and accompanies the occipital artery to the back of the head (p. 9.) The branch of the third cervical nerve supplies a transverse offset to the neck, and then bends upwards to the lower part of the head, where it is united with the great occi- pital nerve, and is distributed internal to it. * Dorsal nerves. — These are obtained from both the inner and in the the outer branches of the nerves — the upper six from the former, region, and the lower six from the latter. On the surface they are directed outwards in the integument over the trapezius and latissi- mus dorsi muscles. The six upper nerves perforate the trapezius near the spines of the vertebrae; and the branch of the second, which is larger than the rest, reaches as far as the scapula. The six lower nerves pierce the latissimus dorsi mostly in a line with the angles of the ribs; these are oftentimes uncertain in number. * Lumbar nerves. —In the loins the nerves are derived from the in the outer branches, and only from the first three; they perforate the latissimus dorsi muscle in a line with the outer border of the erector spinas, and crossing the crest of the ilium, are distributed in the integuments of the buttock.DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 400 Dissec- Dissection. — The cellular membrane is now to be taken tlon' from the trapezius and latissimus dorsi in the direction of the fibres of each, viz. from the shoulder to the spinal column; and the upper limb is to be carried backwards or forwards according as it may be necessary to put on the stretch the different portions of the muscles. Some of the cutaneous nerves may be left, in order that they may be traced afterwards through the muscles to their origin. Two' First Layer of Muscles. — Two muscles, the trapezius in first and the latissimus dorsi, are present in this^tayer. Trape- * TRAPEZIUS muscle is triangular in shape, with the zius- base towards the spine, but the two muscles taken together have a trapezoid form. The muscle has an extensive apo- Origin neurotic origin along the middle line, from the head to the ofic?eu loins, viz. from the spines of the dorsal vertebrse and their supraspinous ligament; from the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra; from the ligamentum nuchas between the last point and the head; and lastly from the inner third of the superior transverse ridge of the occipital bone. From this origin the fibres are directed outwards, inser- converging to the shoulder, and are inserted into the outer fiesny. third of the clavicle, at its posterior aspect; into the pos- terior border of the acromion; and into the upper edge of Connec- the spine of the scapula. The muscle is subcutaneous. At its origin it is tendinous between the sixth cervical and the third dorsal vertebra, as well as at its attachment to the head ; and at the outer side the lowest fleshy fibres end in a small triangular tendon, that glides over the smooth surface at the root of the spine of the scapula. The anterior border bounds behind the posterior triangular space of the side of the neck. By its insertion the trapezius corresponds to the origin of the deltoid muscle. Trace Dissection. — The fibres of the trapezius are to be divided acces! near the scapula, and over the spinal accessory nerve, so sory* that the ramifications of that nerve in the muscle, and its junction with the branches of the cervical plexus may be traced. A small artery to the trapezius (art. superficialis colli) accompanies the nerve. Spinal The spinal accessory nerve (p. 116.), having crossed the sory posterior triangle of the neck, enters beneath the trapezius, trape- and forms a plexiform arrangement with branches of the zius.401 FIEST LAYER OF MUSCLES. third and fourth nerves of the cervical plexus. The nerve is distributed to the muscle, and its filaments reach nearly to the lower border. Dissection. — To see the parts that are covered by the Dissec- . . . tion to trapezius, this muscle is to be divided longitudinally, internal reflect to the position of the spinal accessory nerve, and the two zius; parts are to be thrown inwards and outwards. The dissector of the upper limb should clean the fibres of to clean r r scapular the rhomboidei and levator anguli scapulae muscles, which muscles; are fixed to the base of the scapula ; and whilst this is being done, the scapula is to be drawn away from the trunk to make tense the fibres. The dissector of the neck should define the parts beneath to dissect x parts in the clavicle, viz. the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle the neck, with the suprascapular nerve and artery; the transverse cervical vessels ; and the small branches of nerves to the levator anguli scapulae, and the rhomboid muscles. If the trapezius be detached in the neck, the ligamentum nuchas, from which it takes origin, will be brought into view. * Parts covered by the trapezius. — The trapezius conceals Parts " 1 x covered in the neck the splenius and a small part of the complexus, bytra. L \ A pezius. with the levator anguli scapulae; and in the dorsal region it covers the following muscles—the rhomboidei, the erector spinae, and the latissimus dorsi. As it reaches the scapula it lies over the supraspinatus muscle. The ligamentum nuchce is a narrow fibrous band, that Liga- n , n , , . , mentura extends irom the spinous process 01 the seventh cervical nucnae. vertebra to the occipital protuberance. This structure serves as a partition between the muscles of opposite sides of the neck; and from the under part processes are sent down to be attached to the spines of the six lower cervical vertebrae. * The latissimus doksi is a thin and wide muscle in the i^atissi- back, but is pointed and fleshy towards the humerus : at its d<>rsi is . . named inner attachment it is aponeurotic, and is inseparably blended f™m with the subjacent tendon of the erector spinae. Its origin origin is is connected with the outer edge of the crest of the ilium in noils" front of the ilio-lumbar ligament, with the spines of the four middle or five lower dorsal, and some of the lumbar vertebrae, and fleshynd between these points with the subjacent aponeurosis, as soJJIe before said ; in addition, the muscle has three or four fleshy nbs' D DDISSECTION OF THE BACK. 402 processes of origin from as many of the lower ribs, which digitate with pieces of the external oblique muscle. All the fibres converge to the inferior angle of the scapula, and after crossing that point of bone are continued forwards to be inser- inserted, by means of a tendon, into the bottom of the bi- hume- cipital groove of the humerus (p. 260.). The muscle is sub- Connec- cutaneous, except a small part of the upper border which is tlons* covered by the trapezius; near the scapula there is a space between the two muscles, in which the ribs and the inter- costal and rhomboid muscles are seen. The lower or an- terior border is either parallel to the edge of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen, in the interval between the last rib and the crest of the ilium, or it overlays that muscle. Frequently the latissimus has a distinct fleshy slip from the inferior angle of the scapula. Dissec- Dissection.—The latissimus is to be divided about mid- reflecc> wa7 between the spines of the vertebra and the angle of the mils!1" scapula, and is to be reflected inwards and outwards. In raising the inner part of the muscle, care must be taken not to destroy the thin lower serratus and the aponeurosis con- tinued upwards from it. In the interval between the last rib and the crest of the ilium the latissimus is adherent to the aponeurosis of the transversalis abdominis muscle, and should not be detached from it. Parts * Parts covered by the latissimus. — The latissimus dorsi COV6F(jd by the muscle lies on the erector spina?, on the serratus posticus simus. inferior, and on the lower ribs with their intercostal muscles. As it rests on the angle of the scapula, it conceals the teres major, and a part of the rhomboid muscle. Its relation to the teres is worthy of note: at the angle of the scapula it is in contact with the posterior surface of the teres, but nearer the humerus it turns round the muscle, and is inserted in Forms front of it. Between the angle of the scapula and the wan. humerus the latissimus forms part of the posterior boundary of the axilla. Dissec- Dissection. — After the latissimus dorsi has been reflected, tion of # 7 fascia the dissector of the abdomen should examine the disposi- lumbo- l rum; tion of the posterior tendon of the transversalis abdominis (fascia lumborum) between the last rib and the innominate bone. cfesat- ^n t^ie sPot re^erre(^ to are parts of the abdominal muscles403 THE FASCIA LUMBORUM. D D 2 that have been left in the previous dissection. Firstly, there tachedto may, or may not remain a piece of the external oblique muscle. After the removal of this muscl^(supposing a part to be left), the internal oblique will be seen to be attached to a subjacent aponeurosis, and to the ribs and the crest of the ilium; its attachments above and below are to be cut through, and it is to be raised from the transversalis muscle, as far as it can be, towards the spine. Then the aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle (fascia lumborum) appears, and perforating it are two nerves : — one, the last dorsal, with an artery near the last rib; and the other, the ilio-hypogastric, close to the crest of the ilium. Two offsets are prolonged backwards from this fascia to of pro. the transverse processes. To see one prolongation, that is &om\t. attached to the apices of the processes, the latissimus dorsi is to be cut through (both its aponeurosis and fleshy part) by an incision directed outwards from the middle line, on a level with the spinous process of the third lumbar vertebra; on raising the outer border of the muscle (erector spinas), which comes into view, the strong process of the fascia will be apparent. After dividing this first prolongation trans- versely, another muscle (quadratus lumborum) will be seen : and on raising its outer border the second thin offset of'the fascia will be evident on the abdominal aspect of that muscle. The fascia lumborum is the posterior aponeurosis of the Fascia transversalis abdominis muscle, and occupies the interval rum is between the last rib and the crest of the ilium. By its Frans-f cutaneous surface it gives attachment to the internal oblique abdomi- muscle, sometimes to the external oblique, and slightlyms' to the aponeurosis of the latissimus dorsi. The last dorsal and ilio-hypogastric nerves pierce the aponeurosis in their course from the abdomen. From the inner part of the aponeurosis two prolongations reach the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebra?, and enclose the quadratus lum- borum. The more superficial of the two is the strongest; has two it passes beneath the erector spinse, in this position of the behind body, and is connected to the apices of the transverse pro- one to cesses, but it also fills the intervals between those pieces of apex' bone. The deeper or anterior prolongation passes on the abdominal surface of the quadratus lumborum, to be fixed other to404 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. root of to the roots of the transverse processes, and to the bodies of verse the vertebrae. Thus the prolongations of the fascia contain cesses, the quadratus lumborum in a sheath. In like manner the form erector spinas lies in another sheath, which is formed by the for aponeurosis of the latissimus on the one side, and by the ' posterior of the two prolongations of the fascia lumborum on the other. second Second Layer of Muscles.—This stratum contains the lar layer, elevator of the angle of the scapula, and the large and small rhomboid muscles. Besides these, there will be found in the neck the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, with some vessels and nerves that turn backwards towards the scapula. Elevator * The levator anguli scapulae arises by tendinous slips of?cag-le from the posterior tubercles on the tips of the transverse pula' processes of the three or four upper cervical vertebrae. The fibres form rather a roundish muscle, and are inserted into the base of the scapula between the spine and the superior Attach- angle. At its origin the muscle is beneath the sterno- and con- mastoideus, and at its insertion, beneath the trapezius; the nections. ^ muscie appears in the posterior triangular space of the neck. Beneath it are some of the other cervical muscles (splenius colli and cervicalis ascendens). Rhom- * Ehomboidei Muscles. — The thin muscular layer of muscles *ne rhomboidei, that is attached to the base of the scapula, are two. consjsts 0f two pieces, large and small, separated by a cel- lular interval. small * The rhomboideus minor is a small narrow band, that muscle. arises from the spinous processes of the seventh cervical and first dorsal vertebrae, and from the ligamentum nuchae ; Attach- it is inserted into the base of the scapula, opposite the smooth ments surface at the root of the spine of that bone. Large * The rhomboideus major is larger than the preceding by the width of three or more spinous processes. It arises from the spines of the four or five upper dorsal vertebrae, and from the supraspinous ligament; and its fibres are directed outwards to be fixed to the base of the scapula inser- between the spine and the lower angle. Sometimes all the fibres do not reach directly the scapula, but some end on a Connec- tendinous arch near the bone. These muscles are covered tions. cnjefly by the trapezius and the latissimus, but a portion of muscle, Origin.405 SCAPULAR VESSELS AND NERVES. the larger rhomboid muscle is subcutaneous near the angle of the scapula. The OMO-HYOID MUSCLE Consists Of tWO fleshy bellies, Poste- rior anterior and posterior, which are united by an intervening beiiy of tendon (p. 66.). Only the posterior half is now seen. The hyoid- muscle arises from the upper border of the scapula, behind origin the notch, and from the ligament that converts the notch into a foramen. The fibres form a thin riband-like muscle,and termi- which is directed forwards across the lower part of the neck, nation, and ends anteriorly in a tendon beneath the sterno-mastoi- deus. This muscle is placed partly beneath the trapezius; Connec- and is partly superficial in the posterior triangular space of the neck, where it lies above the clavicle and the subclavian artery. It lies on the brachial plexus, and, near the scapula, on the suprascapular vessels and nerve. The suprascapular artery is a branch of the subclavian supra- trunk (p. 73.), and is directed almost horizontally outwards artery across the lower part of the neck to the back of the scapula, subcia- The vessel lies behind the clavicle, and courses along that bone, with the suprascapular nerve, but beneath the trapezius and omo-hyoid muscles, to the supraspinal fossa of the sea- ends on pula. Before entering the fossa it furnishes a small branch scapula, (supra-acromial) to the upper surface of the acromion. The suprascapular nerve is an offset of the brachial plexus Supra- . . scapular (p. 76.), and is inclined backwards to the superior costa ofnerve the scapula. It passes through the notch in the superior costa of the bone, and beneath the supraspinatus muscle ; its termination in the muscles on the dorsum of the scapula accom- will be seen in the dissection of the arm (p. 273.). artery. The transverse cervical artery is also a branch of the sub- Trans- clavian, and has the same direction as the suprascapular cervical branch, viz. towards the upper part of the scapula, but it is th^sub- placed at a greater height above the clavicle. Crossing the upper part of the space in which the subclavian artery lies, this branch passes beneath the trapezius, and divides into divides the two following branches — superficial cervical and posterior scapular: — a. The superficial cervical branch is distributed chiefly to the super- under surface of the trapezius, though it furnishes offsets to the cervical levator anguli scapulae and the cervical glands. and b. The posterior scapular branch crosses beneath the elevator of P°sterior scapular D D 3406 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. the angle of the scapula, and turns downwards along the base of that bone beneath the rhomboid muscles. If these muscles are divided, the artery will be seen to furnish branches to them; and to give anastomotic twigs to both surfaces of the scapula, which join the other arteries distributed on the bone. This artery arises, very frequently, as a separate branch from the third part of the subclavian trunk. Accom- The veins have the same name and course as the arteries veSis.ng above described; they open into the external jugular vein near its junction with the subclavian vein. Nerve of Nerve to the rhomboid muscles. — This slender nerve of rhom- boid the brachial plexus (p. 76.) takes the same course as the muscle. 7 preceding artery, beneath the elevator of the angle of the scapula. Before its termination it supplies one or two twigs to the elevator of the scapula; it is lost in the rhomboidei, on their under surface. Dissec- Dissection.—By reflecting the rhomboidei muscles towards the spinous processes, and removing the cellular membrane, the thin upper serratus muscle which is beneath them will be laid bare. Third Third Layer.—In this stratum are the following muscles: layer of % m . muscles. —the serratus posticus superior and inferior, with the splenius. serrati * The serrati muscles are very thin, and receive their in num- name from their toothed attachment to the ribs. They are ber. . ... two in number, superior and inferior, and have aponeurotic origins from the spines of the vertebras. Smaller * The serratus posticus superior arises from the ligamen- uppe? turn nuchas, and from the spinous processes of the last cer- STetho- vical, and the two or three upper dorsal vertebras. The rax' fleshy fibres are inclined downwards, and are attached by slips to the second, third, and fourth ribs, external to their angles. The muscle rests on the splenius. Larger * The serratus posticus inferior occupies the lumbar aUower region, and is wider than the preceding muscle. Its apo- thora°xf. neurosis of origin is inseparably united with that of the latissimus dorsi, and is connected to the spinous processes of the two last dorsal and the three first lumbar vertebrae. Connec- The fleshy fibres ascend to be inserted by offsets into the tl0nb" four last ribs in front of their angles, each successive pro- cess extending further forward than the one below. ThisTHIRD LAYER OF MUSCLES. 407 muscle lies on the mass of the erector spinae, and from its upper border the vertebral aponeurosis is continued. * The vertebral aponeurosis is a fibrous expansion, which Verte- is spread over the fourth layer of muscles, and confines it aponeu- rosis. in the hollow by the side of the spinous processes. Attached Attach- inferiorly to the upper border of the inferior serratus, the ments* aponeurosis is continued beneath the superior serratus, and binds down the splenius muscle. Internally, it is fixed to the spines of the vertebrae, and externally it is inserted into the angles of the ribs. Dissection, — The superior serratus is to be cut through, J?j*sec- and the subjacent vertebral aponeurosis taken away, and then the splenius muscle will be denuded. The splenius muscle consists of cervical and cranial parts, Splenius which are named respectively splenius colli and splenius parts?0 capitis. The two are united at their origin. The splenius colli arises from the spines of three or four one to upper dorsal vertebras, beginning at the sixth. Ascending the neck' in the neck, the muscle is inserted by tendinous processes into the posterior tubercles on the tips of the transverse pro- cesses of the three upper cervical vertebrae, and behind the attachment of the elevator of the angle of the scapula. The splenius capitis arises from the spines of the last one cervical and two first dorsal vertebrae, and from the liga- head! mentum nuchae as high as the third cervical vertebra. The fleshy fibres ascend and are inserted into the apex and outer surface of the mastoid process, and into the ridge behind it for about an inch and a half. The splenius colli is smaller than the splenius capitis, and Their its fibres are more oblique. These muscles are beneath the tion"60" trapezius, the rhomboidei, and the serratus superior ; and other the insertion into the occipital bone is beneath the sterno- muscles' mastoideus. The complexus muscle can be seen above the upper border of the splenius capitis. Dissection, — To lay bare the fourth layer of muscles, the Dissec- splenii must be detached from the spinous processes, and fourth' thrown outwards. The serratus inferior is also to be detached layer' in the same way with the vertebral aponeurosis, and the cel- lular membrane is to be cleaned from the surface of the large mass of the erector spinae, that now comes into view. Opposite the last rib is the beg inning of a cellular interval, sacro- ' " lumba- D D 4DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 408 lis and which divides the erector spinas into an outer piece or the sory sacro-lumbalis, and an inner piece or the longissimus dorsi. ' By sinking the knife into this interval, the sacro-lumbalis may be turned outwards, so as to uncover the fleshy slips of its accessory muscle, which are fixed to the angles of the offset ribs. A thin narrow muscle, the cervicalis ascendens, which neck.* IS continued from the sacro-lumbalis beyond the ribs, should be separated in the neck from the muscles around by the dissector of that part, vessels In dissecting the sacro-lumbalis muscle, the external nerves, branches of the dorsal nerves with their accompanying arteries will be found. Longis- Before the longissimus can be displayed, it will be needful dorsi to raise towards the spinous processes the thin muscular fonga-° fasciculus of the spinalis dorsi, which lies between it and the spines of the vertebras in the dorsal region. Then the at- tachments of the longissimus dorsi are to be traced out. Externally it has thin muscular processes of insertion into about the eight lower ribs. Internally it is inserted into the transverse processes of the lumbar and dorsal vertebrae by rounded tendons ; and for the purpose of seeing these tendons, the longissimus must be drawn away from the spinous pro- cesses, and its superficial aponeurosis must be cut through, below the ribs, in the line of separation between this muscle vessels and the multifidus spinas on its inner side. Between the nerves, longissimus and the multifidus spinas are the internal branches of the dorsal nerves, and those of the intercostal and lumbar arteries. Offsets The dissector of the neck should trace upwards a fleshy neck? prolongation of the longissimus beyond the ribs : this is blended at first with the fibres of the longissimus ; but it is afterwards divided like the splenius into a cranial part (tra- chelo-mastoid) and a cervical part (transversalis colli). Fourth Fourth Layer.—In this layer are included the spinalis muscles dorsi; the erector spinas, with its divisions and its accessory muscles to the neck; and the complexus muscle. Most of consists the vessels and nerves of the back are in connection with this layer of muscles, spinalis * The spinalis dorsi is found only by the sides of the spines of the dorsal vertebras, and is united with the lon- gissimus dorsi. Inferiorly it arises by tendinous processes409 FOURTH LATER OF MUSCLES. from the spines of the last two dorsal and the first two lumbar vertebrae, and from the contiguous tendon of the lon- gissimus. From this origin the fibres ascend, forming arches oniy^ whose concavity looks inwards, and are connected by ten-th,edor- J 7 J sal ver- dinous processes to the spines of the dorsal vertebrae, as low tebr8B- as the eighth or ninth, or only for half that extent. * The erector spin^e is the muscular mass that lies on Erector spinas the side of the spine in the lumbar region. It is single and is single pointed below; and its cutaneous surface is covered near the origin, sacrum by a wide and strong tendon, which is common to it and the multifidus spinas. The muscle arises from the ten- don or aponeurosis above mentioned, and from the inner sur- face of the innominate bone at its posterior part. Opposite but is the last rib it divides into sacro-lumbalis and longissimus at the dorsi. The attachment on the inner aspect of the os ilii into two. corresponds in part to the origin of the gluteus maximus on the outer aspect. * The sacro-lumbalis (ilio costalis) is the smallest of the sacro- r _ i • • . i* t • lumbalis two pieces resulting trom the division ol the erector spinas. The fibres that compose it end in six or seven flat tendons, which are connected together by their margins, and are ^m-^ inserted into the angles of as many of the lower ribs. The into six ° J m lower muscle is continued onwards to the other ribs and the neck ribs, by a fleshy part, which constitutes the two under-mentioned muscles: — * The musculus accessorius ad sacro-lumbalem begins by Muscu- ° J lus ac- a series of tendinous and fleshy bundles on the angles of the cess°- J & nus six lower ribs, internal to the tendons of insertion of the sacro-lumbalis ; and ends in tendons, which are inserted into is at- 7 tached the remaining ribs (upper six) in a line with those of the tothe sacro-lumbalis, and into the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. * The cervicalis ascendens is a muscular slip that prolongs Cenri- : the accessorius into the neck. United with the preceding, ascen- this muscle is attached like it to four ribs (third, fourth, fifth, reaches and sixth), and is inserted into the tips (posterior tubercles) the neck* of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebras with the same numerical designation. * The longissimus dorsi gradually decreases in size as it Longis- ° * sirrms ascends along the thorax. Internally the muscle is inserted dorsi into the transverse processes of all the lumbar and dorsal \se^dDISSECTION OF THE BACK. 410 into ribs vertebras by a series of tendinous and fleshy bundles ; and ex- trans- ternally into the ribs, except the two or three first, by thin pro- fleshy processes which are fixed between the tubercle and cesses ; angle. In the lumbar region the inner attachment is partly fleshy, and is connected to the whole length of the transverse process, as well as to the fascia lumborum outside the pro- cess ; and partly tendinous, and is fixed to the tubercle (process, accessorius) at the root of the same process. In the dorsal region the insertion is tendinous, and is con- is con- nected with the tips of the transverse processes. Its mus- tinued to . , . . tneneck cular prolongation to the neck is inseparably united with the upper fleshy fibres, and splits into the two following pieces : — trans- The transversalis colli arises from the transverse processes versaiis . . colli, of the six upper dorsal vertebras and is inserted into the transverse processes (posterior parts) of the cervical vertebras, except the first and last, and to The trachelo-mastoid muscle arises in common with the by the preceding, and has besides an attachment by distinct tendons mastoid, to the articular processes of the four or five last cervical vertebras. The fibres form a thin muscle, that is inserted into the upper half of the posterior border of the mastoid process, beneath the splenius: its insertion is about three quarters of an inch wide. Connec- * Connections of erector spince. —The erector spinas and its tionsof , . ■ , i , i . -. -i the erec- prolongations occupy the lumbar, thoracic, and cervical parts spinas, of the back. In the loins the muscle is contained in an apo- neurotic sheath (p. 404.), and has the multifidus spinas on its inner side. Opposite the ribs the sacro-lumbalis and lon- gissimus dorsi are concealed by the muscles of the other layers already examined. In the neck the accessory small muscles are beneath the splenius and the trapezius : the cer- vicalis ascendens is attached in a line with the splenius colli; and the transversalis colli and the trachelo-mastoid are more internal, or between these and the complexus. com- The complexus is internal to the prolongations from the longissimus dorsi, and converges towards its fellow of the opposite side at the occipital bone. Narrow at its lower end, Origin, the muscle arises by tendinous points from the tips of the transverse processes of the three upper dorsal vertebras, and from the articular processes of the cervical vertebras as high411 NERVES OF THE NECK. as the third. From the tendons of origin the fibres pass up- wards, the inferior more vertically than the superior, to be inserted into an impression, between the curved lines of the inser- occipital bone, which reaches outwards nearly two inches from the middle line. Closely united to the inner border is the following muscular slip : — The biventer cervicis is internal to the preceding, of which its ac- it may be considered a part: it is so named from its having piece7 two fleshy bellies with an intervening tendon. It arises from the transverse processes of two or three dorsal vertebrae, below the attachment of the complexus, and is inserted into Attacn- the occipital bone on the inner side of that muscle. The biventer cervicis frequently receives a fleshy slip from the spines of one or two of the lower cervical vertebrae. The complexus and biventer cervicis muscles are con- connec- cealed by the splenius and the trapezius; and the cutaneous surface of the complexus presents a tendinous cross intersec- tion towards its upper end. Two or three of the cervical nerves perforate the complexus. Along the inner side is the semispinalis muscle, with the ligamentum nuchae. Beneath it are the small recti and obliqui muscles, the semispinalis, and the cervical nerves and vessels. Dissection. — In the neck the nerves and vessels will be Dissec- brought into view by detaching the complexus from the the °f occipital bone and the spines of the vertebras, and raising it S^neck with care from the subjacent parts. Beneath the muscle is a dense fascia, in which are contained the ramifications of the internal branches of the four or five highest cervical nerves. The first or suboccipital nerve is the most difficult of the set to find, but all should be sought with some care: this little nerve is a short trunk that is contained in the interval between the recti and obliqui muscles near the head, and does not branch into two (inner and outer pieces) in the same regular way as the others; it will be best found by looking for the small twigs that are furnished by it to the recti muscles. The inner branches of the others are partly above and partly beneath the fibres of the semispinalis muscle. The external branches are very small, and are given off close to where the trunks appear. In the dissection of those nerves the deep cervical artery is and the exposed on the semispinalis muscle; a part of the vertebralvessels412 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. artery will be found with the suboccipital nerve; and the occipital artery will be seen crossing the occipital bone, of the Opposite the thorax the dorsal nerves and vessels will same in the readily be dissected on the removal of a little cellular mem- do rsal ^ region, brane from between the transverse processes, and on the inner side of the longissimus dorsi muscle. External and internal branches are to be traced from each trunk; some of the former have been seen in the interval between the sacro- lumbal and longissimus dorsi. in the The lumbar nerves and vessels resemble the dorsal, and region, are found in the same line ; but the inner branches are more difficult to recognise. The sacral nerves are beneath the multifidus spinas, and will be dissected after the examination of that muscle (p. 420.). Poste- Posterior Branches of the Spinal Nerves.—The vision of spinal nerves, with a few exceptions in the cervical and nerves, sacral parts of the spinal column, bifurcate in the interver- tebral foramina into anterior and posterior primary branches. The posterior resulting from this division turn backwards to supply the integument and the muscles of the back, and are now to be described, in the In the neck. — The posterior primary branches of the cer- vical nerves are eight in number. All, except those of the first two, appear beneath the posterior intertransverse muscles, and still divide into an internal and an external they branch. In both the first and second nerves, the posterior divide into two. primary branch crosses the arch of the vertebra next beneath, after leaving its trunk. External CL» The external branches are very inconsiderable in size, branches muscles inserted into the transverse pro- smdlL cesses, viz. the splenius, and the prolongations from the None to erector spinas muscle. There is not any external branch to the first. t^e first? or the suboccipital nerve. Internal b. The internal branches are larger than the external, above All are directed inwards beneath the complexus towards the last, give spinous processes ; and those of the three lowest nerves pass neous in addition beneath the semispinalis muscle. By the side of the spines of the vertebrae, cutaneous branches are furnished to the neck and the head by those nerves that are superficial to the semispinalis; these superficial offsets ascend to the413 SPINAL NERVES OF THE BACK. surface through the splenius, the complexus, and the trapezius muscles, and are distributed as before seen (p. 399.). In their course to the spine the nerves supply the surrounding muscles, viz. the complexus, semispinalis, multifidus spina3, and interspinales. The inner branches of the second and Those of A second third nerves end on the occiput, and require a more length- and ened notice. That of the second nerve, named great occipital, appears second beneath the inferior oblique muscle to which it gives offsets: head, it is then directed upwards to the head through the com- plexus and the trapezius, and ends on the occiput (p. 9.). The branch of the third nerve supplies an offset to the Third 1 L m supplies integument of the neck; and then ascending to the head neck and & ? ° head. through the trapezius, is distributed to the lower part of the occiput, internal to the great occipital nerve. Usually this nerve joins the preceding both beneath, and superficial to the trapezius. The suboccipital nerve, or the posterior primary branch Sub-occi- of the first spinal trunk, deviates from the others in its nerve course and branching. It is very short, and appears in the has dif- interval between the recti and obliqui muscles; in passing branch- from the spinal canal it is placed between the arch of the™8' atlas and the vertebral artery, and pierces the ligament between the first cervical vertebra and the occipital bone. The following branches radiate from the extremity of the ends in „ n the mus- nerve: — One enters the under surface oi the complexus cies. near the cranial attachment. A slender branch is furnished to each of the small muscles that bound the space in which the nerve is contained, viz. the rectus major and minor, and the superior and inferior oblique: the offset to the last muscle often joins the inner branch of the second cervical nerve. Occasionally the suboccipital nerve gives a cutaneous Occa- , , , . sionalJy branch to the occiput.* a cu- . . . taneous The suboccipital nerve and the internal branches of the two offset, next cervical nerves are sometimes connected by branches beneath P°ste- •' nor cer- the complexus ; when such an intercommunication exists, it forms vical the " posterior cervical plexus " of M. Cruveilhier. * In the dorsal region. —The posterior primary branches of Twelve the dorsal nerves are twelve in number, and appear between nerves * See note to p. 139. of the first edition of this work.DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 414 divide the transverse processes. Each nerve soon divides into an inner internal and an external branch, which is distributed after outer the same plan as those in the neck. Cutaneous offsets are es. furnished from the one or the other set of branches, but not commonly from both branches of the same nerve. Outer * The external branches increase in size from the first to branches of upper the last, and are differently distributed above and below. six end . . .. m m in mus- The upper six pass beneath the longissimus and its cervical prolongation, as far as to the interval between the longissimus and the sacro-lumbalis, and end by supplying these muscles but those and the levatores costarum. The lower six have a similar of lower six give arrangement and distribution with respect to the muscles: cuta- ° 1 neous but, after reaching the cellular interval between the sacro- offsets. ° lumbalis and the longissimus dorsi, they are continued to the surface through the serratus and latissimus muscles, in a line with the angles of the ribs, inner * The internal branches decrease in size from above of upper downwards. The upper six are directed inwards between six have , i • /» i cuta. the semi spinalis dorsi and multifidus spinas muscles, and be- neous i i • i n i • offsets, come cutaneous along the side ol the spinous processes, by perforating the rhomboideus and trapezius muscles. Offsets are supplied to the muscles between which they are placed. Lower The lower six are small in size, and end in the multifidus six not. spinas muscle. Lumbar * In the loins. — The posterior primary branches of the nerves aredu lumbar nerves are five in number, and appear between the into two. erector and multifidus spinas. In their mode of dividing and general arrangement they resemble the dorsal nerves. Cu- taneous offsets are furnished only by the external set of branches. External * The external branches enter the fibres of the erector- give spinas, and supply it and the small intertransverse muscles, neous The three first pierce the erector-spinas, and become cuta- firsc neous after piercing the aponeurosis of the latissimus. The outer branch of the last nerve is connected with the corre- sponding part of the first sacral nerve by an offset which lies near the bones, internal * The internal branches are supplied to the multifidus end in spinas muscle. Near their origin thev are difficult to find, the mus- . _ , . . , . J cies.; in consequence oi being contained in grooves near the arti- cular processes of the vertebras.VESSELS OF THE BACK. 415 Vessels in the Back. — The vessels that are now dis- Theves- sected are the occipital and the deep cervical artery; part of the vertebral artery; and the posterior branches of the in- tercostal and lumbar arteries of the aorta. Veins accompany the arteries for the most part. In the neck. — The vessels in the neck are the occipital, the vertebral, and the deep cervical. The occipital artery may be seen coursing along the occi- ^aerto£f pital bone. Appearing from beneath the digastric muscle, ^pitai the vessel is directed backwards beneath the sterno-mas- toideus, the splenius, and sometimes the trachelo-mastoideus, but over the obliquus superior and complexus muscles. Near the middle line of the body it perforates the trapezius and ascends to the occiput, on which it is distributed (p. 6.). It supplies the surrounding muscles, and furnishes the fol- which * . i i i i sives a lowing branch to the neck : — The cervical branch (r. princeps cervicis) distributes twigs to the cervical under part of the trapezius, and then passhig beneath the com- plexus, anastomoses with the vertebral and deep cervical arteries. The vertebral artery lies on the posterior arch of the first Part of vertebra, behind the articulating process of that bone; and tebrai " appears in the interval between the straight and obliqueartery* muscles, as it perforates the ligament between the atlas and the occipital bone on its way to the skull. Small branches are supplied by the vessel to the surrounding parts. Beneath the artery is the suboccipital nerve. The deep cervical artery is a branch of the superior inter- Deep costal (of the subclavian, p. 74.), and resembles the posterior artery, branches of the other intercostal arteries. Passing back- wards between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib, the vessel appears in this dissection between the complexus and semispinals muscles. Finally, the artery ascends as high as the upper border of the semispinalis muscle, and anastomoses with the cervical branch of the occipital artery. The contiguous muscles receive branches from the deep cervical artery, and anastomoses are formed between its offsets and those of the vertebral artery. * In the dorsal region. -— The posterior branches of the inter- intercostal vessels accompany the nerves between the ver- arteries tebrai and the anterior costotransverse ligaments. In«the into ^DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 416 back they are divided like the nerves into inner and outer branches. inner * The inner branches end in the fleshy mass of the mul- tifidus spinas and semispinalis muscles, and furnish small offsets with those nerves that reach the surface. outer * The external branches cross beneath the longissimus branch- , . _ es, dorsi, and supply it and the erector spinas. Like the nerves, the lowest branches of this set are the largest, because they extend to the surface, and give As the dorsal branch of the intercostal artery passes by the in- formal tervertebral foramen, it furnishes a small spinal artery to the cord cord* and its membranes, as well as other twigs to the vertebrae. Lumbar * In the loins. — The posterior branches of the lumbar arteries ar|erjeg divide, like the intercostal, into internal and external pieces, as soon as they reach the interval between the lon- are also gissimus dorsi and multifidus spinas. They give also a spinal into branch to the spinal canal, and the cord and the membranes investing it. inner * The internal branches are small, and end in the multi- fidus spinas muscle, outer # The external branches supply the erector spinas, and branch- gome are continued onwards, with the nerves, to the integu- ments. veins Veins.— With the deep cervical artery is a large vein, cervical vena profunda cervicis, that communicates with the occipital and other deep veins in this region, forming the posterior plexus of the neck ; and then passes forwards between the transverse processes, with the artery, to join the vertebral occipital, vein. The occipital vein lies with its artery, and some- times communicates with the lateral sinus through the dorsal mastoid foramen. The dorsal and lumbar veins correspond bar, to the arteries they accompany in their branching and dis- tribution, and end in the intercostal veins. In contact with and deep the spinous processes and plates of the vertebras is a deeper set of veins (dorsi spinal), which anastomose freely together, and enter the veins in the interior of the spinal canal. Dissec- Dissection. — Most of the remaining fifth layer of muscles the last of the back is uncovered bv the previous dissection. Thus, layer of . muscles, between the first two vertebras and the occipital bone lie the small straight, and oblique muscles : in the cervical and dorsal regions the semispinalis muscle will be seen, with theFIFTH LAYER OF MUSCLES. 417 small interspinal muscles internal to it; and occupying a corresponding position in the loins is the multifidus spinae. The small intertransverse muscles of the lumbar vertebrae will be found by cutting through the erector spinae. Fifth Layer. — In this layer are the following small Muscles J ° of the muscles ; — the recti and obliqui, the semispinals, inter- spinales, multifidus spinae, and intertransversales. The rectus capitis posticus major is the largest of Rectus ° capitis the three muscles between the occipital bone and the first maJ°r 1 passes vertebrae. It arises from the side of the spine of the second between 1 axis and vertebra, and is inserted into the inferior curved line of the occipital 7 bone. occipital bone for about an inch, as well as into the surface below it: its upper attachment is beneath the superior oblique muscle. This muscle is directed outwards very obliquely, and forms one side of the triangular space that contains the suboccipital nerve. The RECTUS CAPITIS POSTICUS MINOR is internal to the Rectus capitis preceding, and is much smaller than it. Arising from the minor posterior arch of the atlas, the muscle ascends to be inserted, passes close to the middle line, into the inferior curved ridge of the atlas to occipital occipital bone, and between this and the foramen magnum, bone. This small muscle is fan-shaped, and is deeper than the rectus major : it covers the ligament between the atlas and the occipital bone. The two recti muscles are analogous to the interspinales between the other vertebrae. The obliquus inferior lies obliquely between the first owi- A ^ quus m- two vertebrae. It arises from the spinous process of the lerior axis, external to the rectus maior muscle, and is inserted 7 0 7 tween into the transverse process of the atlas. first two A verte- The obliquus superior takes origin from the extremity brae, of the transverse process, where the preceding muscle termi- quusfsu- nates, and is directed inwards to be inserted between the pe"or extends curved lines of the occipital bone, near the mastoid process, atiasto This muscle is concealed by the complexus and trachelo- occiPut- mastoideus, and crosses the vertebral artery. Its insertion connec- is beneath the splenius, but above the rectus major muscle. tlons" The semispinals occupies the vertebral groove in the Semi- dorsal and cervical regions, and extends from the transverse spmalis to the spinous processes of the vertebrae. The lower part of is di- the muscle is called semispinalis dorsi, and the upper part h!tod semispinals colli. e e418 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. semi- The semispinalis dorsi arises from the transverse pro- dorsi, cesses of the dorsal vertebra?, from the tenth to the sixth; and is inserted into the spinous processes of the four upper dorsal and the two last cervical vetebrae. semi- The semispinalis colli arises from the transverse processes spinalis J 1 colli. of the five or six upper dorsal vertebrae, and from the articular processes of the cervical vertebrae, except the three first: it is inserted into the spines of the cervical vertebrae above the attachment of the semispinalis dorsi, the atlas not receiving any slip. Sons160" ^e semispina^s muscle is covered by the complexus, and by the deep cervical artery and the cervical nerves. To its inner side is the multifidus spinas muscle. spinal * ^ne interspinal muscles are placed as their name ex- inUpSairsS Presses : they are arranged in pairs, and are best seen in the neck and the loins. neck6- ce™cal region the muscles are pairs between the spinous processes, but they are absent from the interval be- tween those of the first two vertebrae. They are small round bundles, and are attached above and below to the bifurcated in the apices of the spines. * In the dorsal region the muscles are rudimentary, and exist only between the first, or the first two pairs of the ver- tebrae ; and between the last pair, and the lowest dorsal and the first lumbar vertebrae. loins6 * ^n ^e ^um^ar re9i°n> as in the cervical, there is a pair in each interspinal space. Here they are thin flat muscles, that reach all the length of the spines. Inter- * The INTERTRANSVERSE MUSCLES lie between the trans- trans- verse verse processes of the vertebrae; but only those in the loins muscles 1 J and the back are now dissected. ™ *e In the neck they are double, like the interspinal muscles of the same vertebrae (p. 177.). and' * In the dorsal region they are found only between the region, lower processes, and are rounded bundles: their number varies from three to six, and in the upper spaces tendinous bands take their place, in loins. * In the lumbar region they form thin fleshy muscular planes between the bony processes. There are two muscles to each space, as in the neck.419 FIFTH LATER OF MUSCLES. Dissection. — The multifidus spinas muscle, which fills the Dissec- hollow by the side of the spinous processes, may now be St? dissected. Over the sacrum it will be necessary to remove spina?, from it the the thick aponeurosis, that covers it and the erector spinas. In the neck, and in the dorsal region the muscle will appear on detaching the semispinalis from the spines, and turning it aside. * The multifidus spinae muscle extends from the sacrum Muiti- to the second vertebra, and is much larger towards the pelvis sp^me than in the neck. It takes its origin inferiorly from the extend aponeurosis covering the surface; from the back of the origin, sacrum, between the central and external row of processes, as low as the fourth aperture ; from the inner surface of the posterior superior spinous process of the innominate bone, and from the ligaments connecting this bone to the sacrum. Along the side of the spine, the muscle arises differently in the several regions : — Thus in the loins it arises from the accessory and the articular processes of the lumbar vertebras; in the dorsal region, from the transverse processes of the corresponding vertebrae; and in the neck, from the arti- cular processes of the four or five lower cervical vertebrae. From this origin the fibres are directed obliquely inwards, some extending more than the length of one vertebra, to be inserted into the spines and the laminae of all the vertebrae Jnser_ except the first. This muscle chiefly fills the vertebraltlon' A " Connec- groove, and is concealed by the erector spinae and the semi- tions. spinalis. The internal branches of the vessels and nerves of the back lie along its outer border. The following small muscles may be said to be parts of the multifidus. * Eotatores spince. — These are eleven small muscles Rota. beneath the multifidus spinae in the dorsal region, and are spina separated from that muscle by cellular tissue. Each is ofemuitf- attached on the one hand to the tip and the upper edge offidus' a transverse process, and on the other to the lower border of the lamina of the vertebra next above. The first starts from the transverse process of the second vertebra. The aponeurosis of the multifidus is connected in the middle Aponeu. line with the spines of the lower lumbar vertebrae, and with muiti? those of the sacrum. On the outer side it is attached to the Mus'DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 420 posterior part of the crest of the ilium ; and to the outer row of tubercles on the back of the sacrum, being here connected with the great sacro-sciatic ligament. Above, it is continued some way on the surface of the erector spinas. Dissec- Dissection. — To find the branches of the sacral nerves, it tion of 7 sacral will be necessary to remove the part of the multifidus spinas nerves. J 1 1 that covers the sacrum. These nerves are very fine, but they may be detected by following inwards the external branches that lie on the great sacro-sciatic ligament. The two lowest nerves must be sought on the back of the sacrum, below the extent of the multifidus spinas muscle: the fourth comes through its aperture, and the fifth through the lower opening of the spinal canal, lacrai Sacral Nerves.— The posterior primary branches of the nerves: sacral nerves are five in number : four issue from the spinal canal by the apertures in the back of the sacrum, and the fifth through the large inferior aperture of the spinal canal. ferenHy ^ne tnree &r&t have tne common division into inner and butted" outer branches, like the other spinal nerves, but the last two are undivided.* Three * The first three nerves are covered by the multifidus first have ^ # J toner spinas, and divide regularly. The inner branches of these outer nerves end in the multifidus. The outer branches are branch- es ; larger in size, and have communicating offsets from one to another on the back of the sacrum ; the outer branch of the first nerve is further connected with the corresponding part of the first lumbar ; and that of the third nerve joins in a the last similar manner the sacral nerve next below. After this give cu- taneous looping, the nerves pass outwards to the surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, where they join a second time, and then become cutaneous.—(See Dissection of the Buttock.) Two " % Two last nerves. — These nerves, which are below the last are ' "ided multifidus, are much smaller than the preceding, and are undivided: they are connected one with another, and with the coccygeal nerve, on the back of the sacrum. A few fila- ments are distributed to the back of the sacrum and the coccyx. * See a paper on the mode of branching of the spinal nerves, in the Lond. Med. Gazette of ¥ eh. 10.1843.PART OF WALL OF THE THORAX. 421 * The coccygeal nerve may be recognised with care by Coccy- the side of the coccyx. It is joined by the last sacral nerve, nerve, and ends on the posterior aspect of the coccyx. * Small sacral arteries leave the spinal canal with the small sacral sacral nerves ; they supply the muscular mass of the erector arteries, spinse, and the structures on the back of the sacrum. Anas- tomoses take place between these vessels and the branches on the sacrum from the gluteal and sciatic arteries. Dissection, — The examination of the posterior part of the Dissec- 1 1 tionof wall of the thorax may be made before the body is again inter.- turned. By the removal of the sacro-lumbalis and longissi- struc- • tures. mus dorsi, opposite the ribs, the small levatores costarum will be uncovered. The hinder part of the external inter- costal muscle will be denuded at the same time. * The levatores costarum are twelve small fan-shaped Leva- . tores muscles, and are connected with the hinder part of the ribs, costa- rum Each, except the first, arises from the apex and lower border extend of the transverse process of a dorsal vertebra, and is inserted, trans- verse the fibres spreading out, into the upper border of the rib be- pro- ^ neath, from the tubercle to the angle. The muscles increase ribs.,, in size from above down, and their fibres have the same direc- tion as the external intercostal layer. The first is fixed above to the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra, and below to the outer surface of the first rib. In some of the four lower muscles a few fibres are con- other tinued beyond one rib to that next succeeding. These muscles, longer slips have been named levatores longiores costarum. * The external intercostal muscle is continued backwards Outer in- along the ribs as far as the tubercle, and is overlaid by the muscle, elevator muscle. Beneath this outer muscle are the inter- costal nerve and artery. Dissection. — To trace the anterior and posterior primary pissec- branches of the dorsal nerves to their origin in a common trunk, the elevator of the rib and the external intercostal muscle are to be cut through in one or more spaces. The intercostal artery, with its posterior branch, is laid bare at the same time. * The dorsal nerves can now be seen to split in the inter- Dorsal vertebral foramina into anterior and posterior primary hasVe branches. E E 3422 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. posterior * The posterior branches are directed backwards, internal to the anterior costo-transverse ligament, and have been already examined (p. 413.). and an- * The anterior is named intercostal, and is continued terior trunk, between the ribs, to the front of the chest. Its anatomy is learnt in the dissection of the thorax (p. 264.). inter- * The intercostal artery has an almost exact corre- artery. spondence with the dorsal nerve in its branching and distribution.423 CHAPTER VI. DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD AND ITS MEMBRANES. The spinal cord gives origin to the spinal nerves, and is cordis lodged in the canal formed by the bodies and the arches of Joined the vertebras. It is invested by prolongations of the mem- Snai,nal branes of the brain, which form sheaths around it, and is invested supported by them it in its large canal. branes?" Dissection. — To obtain the cord and its enveloping mem- Dissec. branes, it will be necessary to open the spinal canal; but as geuord a preparatory step all the muscle is to be taken from the ^em- sides of the spines of the vertebras. The canal may be branes- opened by sawing through the arches of the vertebras, on each side, close to the articular processes; and the cuts of the saw should extend to the lower end of the sacrum, but not higher in the neck than the fourth cervical vertebra. As it is difficult to use the saw in the hollow of the lumbar region, a chisel and a mallet will be found useful to divide the plates of the vertebras. When the loose bits of bone have been taken away, the tube of the dura mater will be seen to be covered by some veins, and by some fat and a loose cellular tissue sometimes containing fluid, especially at the lower part. The fat is to be scraped away with the handle of the scalpel, and the lateral prolongations through the intervertebral foramina are to be defined. Membranes of the Cord.—Three membranes, like those Three of the brain, envelop the cord, viz. an external tube of dura ™r^g of mater, an internal sheath of pia mater, and an intervening the cord" arachnoid or serous covering. The dura mater forms a strong tube, and is prolonged D from that lining the interior of the skull. Surrounding mater loosely the cord and the nerves, it extends along the spinal rounds canal, and forms a sheath as far as the top of the sacrum; loosely, but beyond that point it is impervious, and is continued by a slender cord to the back of the coccyx. The capacity of424 DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL COED. the sheath is much greater than is necessary for the contents; and the size of the sheath is also larger in the neck and the and is loins than in the back. On the outer aspect the dura mater connect- IS smooth, when a comparison is made between it and that bones in the skull, for it does not act as a periosteum to the bones. Between it and the osseous surfaces are some vessels and fat; and it is connected to the posterior common ligament of the it gives vertebras by a few fibrous bands. On each side the dura sphTai °n mater sends offsets along the spinal nerves issuing by the nerves jntervertebral foramina ; inferiorly these several offsets be- come gradually longer, forming small tubes which enclose the sacral nerves, and lie for some distance within the spinal and one canal. In the midst of these tubes, into which the dura inferior mater seems to be divided below, will be seen the slender piece' before-mentioned impervious cord, that descends from the lower part of the tube of the dura mater to the end of the spinal canal, and is blended with the periosteum covering the back of the coccyx. Dissec- Dissection.—The sheath of the dura mater with the con- remote tained cord is next to be removed from the'body. For this tord purpose the lateral processes in the intervertebral apertures are to be cut, and the central prolongation is to be detached from the coccyx. Next, the cord and its membranes are to be divided opposite the lower cervical vertebras, and to be removed by cutting the bands that attach the dura mater to the ligament of the vertebras, and see When the cord is taken out, it is to be placed on a piece of board, or on a table, with the lateral offsets widely sepa- rated. To show the arachnoid covering, the dura mater is to be slit along the middle, on both aspects, as far as the small median cord before referred to ; but it is to be raised whilst it is being cut through, so that the loose arachnoid, that envelops the cord, may not be injured. Lastly, the dura -mater is to be fastened back with pins. Ar;>ch- * The arachnoid membrane is the thin serous covering of mem- the cord which is immediately beneath the dura mater. Like has"a tne corresponding membrane in the skull, it invests the nervous centre and lines the dura mater, and consists thus of a visceral and a parietal part* ; but the visceral piece, next CO' vering. * .This reflection of the membrane over the dura mater is denied byMEMBRANES OF THE CORD. 425 around the cord, is much looser than the like part on the brain. The outer or parietal part is inseparably joined to P^tal the inner surface of the dura mater, and gives to that mem- tacned . , layer, brane its shining appearance. The inner or visceral layer and surrounds the cord loosely, so as to leave a considerable or vS! interval between the two (subarachnoid space) : at the lower lTyer. part of the spinal canal this loose sheath is much the largest, and envelops the mass of nerves that form the cauda equina. As the different spinal nerves extend to the intervertebral Between foramina they receive sheaths from the loose or visceral cord is part of the arachnoid membrane, and retain the same till arach. they perforate the dura mater, space. Dissection. — The subarachnoid space of the cord may be to ex- made evident, either by placing the handle of the scalpel sub! beneath the visceral layer, or by putting a detached piece of ™o\t~ the cord in water, with the posterior aspect uppermost, and spACe' blowing air beneath the serous membrane. The subarachnoid space is situate between the loose or sub- visceral part of the arachnoid membrane, and the spinal cord noid invested by pia mater. Larger at the lower than at the ingest upper part of the spinal canal, the space contains a special contai'ns fluid (cerebro-spinal); and it communicates with the cavity com- in the interior of the brain by the aperture in the fourth ™su ventricle. Crossing the space are bundles of fibrous tissue, ^iues^f at the posterior part of the cord, especially in the neck, bram* where these bands are collected into an imperfect partition There is or septum along the middle line. In the space likewise are perfect the serrations of the ligamentum denticulatum, and the roots behind1, of the spinal nerves, with some vessels. Dissection. — For the purpose of seeing the next covering pissec- of the cord with the ligamentum denticulatum, the arachnoid next co- membrane is to be taken away. The pia mater is much less of a vascular structure on the Pia spinal cord than on the brain. Thicker and more fibrous in its nature, the membrane closely surrounds the cord; it supports sends thin prolongations into the anterior and posteriorthe cord' median fissures of the cord, and furnishes offsets to the roots gives of the spinal nerves. The outer surface of the pia mater is offsets' mater Kolliker. According to the view of this anatomist, the membrane is a simple tube corresponding to the visceral layer in the text.426 DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. Fibrous rough. Along its front is a central, anterior fibrous band bands are con- (linea splendens, Haller); and on each side another fibrous with it. band, the ligamentum denticulatum, is attached to it. Scat- tered through the fibrous membrane are branched yellow or brown pigment cells, which in the neck are so numerous as to give it a darkish appearance. And ends Where the medulla spinalis ceases, viz. about the lower rioriy in part of the body of the first lumbar vertebra, the investing a fibrous 1 # J . . piece, tube of the pia mater is suddenly reduced in size, and has the appearance of a round fibrous cord. This cord-like part reaches towards the end of the spinal canal: it is unprovided with nervous substance, except for a short distance, and is blended with the central impervious prolongation of the dura which is mater, on a level with the upper part of the sacrum. It central serves to fix the lower end of the medulla, and has been ment. named, from that circumstance, the central ligament of the cord. A vein and artery accompany this fibrous piece, and thus mark it out from the surrounding nerves. The den- The ligamentum denticulatum is the white fibrous band on ment!ga each side of the spinal cord, that is so named from its serrated which is .11 ii fixed on appearance: it has the same structure as the dura mater, ex- to cord cept that it wants an epithelial covering. Situate between the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves, the band reaches upwards to the medulla oblongata, and ends inferiorly on the lower pointed extremity of the cord. Internally it is united to the pia mater. Externally it ends in a series of triangular or tooth-like projections, which are fixed along and on the dura mater, about midway between the apertures of durar t0 transmission of the roots of the spinal nerves. There are pointsby twenty or twenty-one of these denticulations, of which the Number first is attached to the dura mater opposite the margin of the and at- * x i tach- occipital foramen, between the vertebral artery and the ment of r 7 ; these, hypoglossal nerve ; and the last is inserted opposite the last dorsal or the first lumbar vertebra. This fibrous band sup- ports the spinal cord, and has received the name ligament from that circumstance. Vessels Vessels and nerves of the membranes. — The dura mater of the nerves cord has but few vessels in comparison with that in the skull, for mater? 'lts office is different; nerves have not yet been traced into it, though they have been found on the vessels that supply the cord and its membranes.ROOTS OF THE NERVES. 427 The arachnoid is sparingly supplied with vessels like serous of arach- membranes in general, and proof of its containing nerves is yet n wanting. Thepia mater has a network of vessels in its substance, though jjfpja this is much less marked than in the membrane on the brain, and from it offsets enter the cord. In its substance are many nerves; these were supposed by Purkinje to be derived from the sympa- thetic, but Kemak has shown that their chief source is from the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. Dissection,—The arachnoid membrane is next to be taken Dissec- tion of from the fibrils of the roots of a nerve ; and the roots of roots of nerves. this are to be traced outwards to their transmission through two apertures in the dura mater. One or more of the lower offsets of the dura mater, that have been cut of some length, are to be laid open to show the contained ganglion. The student should define the ganglion, and should trace the roots of the nerve to their union beyond the ganglion. Spinal Nerves.—The spinal nerves are thirty-one in Trunks number. The trunk of each is constructed by the blending Serves?1 together of two roots (anterior and posterior) in the inter- vertebral foramen. They are divided into groups corre- Number sponding to the regional subdivisions of the spinal column, range-" viz. cervical, dorsal, lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal. In each groups" group the nerves are equal to the number of the vertebrae, except in the cervical region of the spine, where there are eight, and in the coccygeal region, where there is only one. In consequence of the cervical nerves exceeding the number Last of the vertebras, the last is placed below the seventh verte- JgVoup^ bra; and consequently the lowest nerve of each group will the ver- be below its corresponding vertebra. Each nerve divides tebra* into two, viz. anterior and posterior primary branches; the former of these is distributed to the front of the body and the limbs, and the latter is confined to the hinder part of the trunk. Eoots of the Nerves.—Two roots or bundles of fibrils Each (anterior and posterior) attach the nerve to the side of the hSTtwo spinal cord ; and these blend together to form the trunk of Ulterior the nerve either in the intervertebral foramen, or, it may be, tertoPr?s~ in the spinal canal. The posterior root is marked by a ganglion, but the anterior root is aganglionic. The posterior or ganglionic roots surpass in size the an- poste-DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. 428 larger terior, and are formed by larger and more numerous fibrils, terior. They are attached to the side of the cord, between the pos- terior and lateral columns or pieces, in a straight line, which is coi- they keep even to the last nerve. In their course to the into two trunk of the nerve, the fibrils of the root pass outwards, con- verging to an aperture in the dura mater opposite the inter- that en- vertebral foramen ; as they approach that aperture they are inter1-? collected into two bundles which, lying side by side, receive bral gan- a sheath from the dura mater, and enter the intervertebral glion. ,. ganglion. Anterior The anterior or aganglionic roots arise from the side of without the cord by filaments that are attached irregularly — not in ganglion. a g^rajg^ \[ne^ an(j approach inferiorly the centre of the its fibres front of the cord. Taking the same direction as the poste- through ri°r r°ot to the intervertebral foramen, its fibrils enter a ratePa" distinct opening in, and have a separate sheath of the dura 5?dura6 mater : in their further course to the trunk of the nerve, mater, ^hey pass over the ganglion of the other root, without join- posterior ing it, and finally the two roots are blended beyond the beyond ganglion to form one trunk. cTfrac- Characters of the roots. — Besides the relative size be- rootf/ tween the two roots, the following characters are to be noted: — Some set Union of the fibrils. — The fibrils of the posterior root join. never join those of the anterior ; and the opposite ; but the anterior root of one nerve may receive offsets from the cor- responding root of the nerve above, and the same may occur in the posterior roots. Poste- Relative size of the roots. — The posterior root is larger 5*arges°tf than the anterior, except in the suboccipital nerve ; and the fi^st.pt in number of the fibrils is also greater. Further, the posterior uonabfy *s ProPorti°nan<y larger in the cervical than in any other largest set of the nerves : in the dorsal nerves there is but a very in neck. slight difference in favour of the hinder root. Roots Size of the roots along the cord. — Both roots are larger ibCoveSe wnere the nerves for the limbs arise, than at other parts of down, cord, and greater in the nerves to the lower than in those except to tne uPPer limDS ; so that the nerve roots increase in size dorsal from above down, except in the dorsal region, where they sacrai. are 0f much the same size from the second to the last, and at the lower extremity of the cord.429 ROOTS OF THE NERVES. Direction and length.—As the apertures of transmission oblique from the spinal canal are not opposite the place of origin of course, the nerves, the roots must be directed more or less obliquely. This obliquity increases from above down ; for in the upper M°8t.so cervical nerves the roots are horizontal, but in the lumbar orly> and sacral nerves they have a vertical direction around the end of the medulla spinalis. This appearance of the long fibrils around the end of the cord has much resemblance to the extremity of a horse's tail, and bears appropriately the *°j[df°rm term cauda equina. equina. The length of the roots increases proportionally as the Length ° increases obliquity, so that in the lower cervical nerves it amounts to the depth of one vertebra ; in the lower dorsal it corresponds from to the depth of two vertebrae; and in the lumbar and sacral down, nerves each succeeding one becomes a vertebra longer, since the cord does not reach beyond the first lumbar vertebra. Place of union of roots. — Commonly the roots unite as Union . ■ . . of the before stated in the intervertebral foramina ; and the trunk roots, of the nerve bifurcates at the same spot into its anterior and vertebral posterior primary branches. But deviations from thisforamen' arrangement are found at the upper and lower ends of the spinal column, in the following nerves : — The roots of the first two cervical nerves join in each in- except ° . in first stance on the posterior arch of the corresponding vertebra ; tY°1cer" and the anterior and posterior branches diverge from the trunk in that situation. In the sacral nerves the union of the roots takes place and the within the canal; and the primary branches of the nerves nerves, issue by the apertures in the front and back of the sacrum. The roots of the coccygeal nerve are also united in theandcoc- cygeal. spinal canal; and the anterior and posterior branches of its trunk escape by the lower aperture of that canal. Ganglia and their situation.—Each posterior root is pro- Number vided with a ganglion: but sometimes the first or suboccipi- j^f*11" tal nerve is without a posterior root and a ganglion. The ganglia are reddish in colour, and appear oval in shape, form whilst they are surrounded by the dura mater; and their size corresponds to that of the root. By means of the dis- J?™*"10' section that has been made, the ganglion may be seen to be bifed at the inner part, where it is joined by the fibrils of the root; so that it might be said to possess two small ganglia, Two ° ° ganglia.430 DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. one for each bundle of fibrils, which are joined together at their outer ends. Their The ganglia are situate in the intervertebral foramina, situa- but where the regular position of those apertures is wanting, as at the upper and lower extremities of the spinal canal, Excep- they have the following position : — In the first two nerves neck."1 they lie on the arches of the first and second vertebra?. In andcoc- sacral nerves they are contained in the spinal canal. In cygeai. ^ coccygeal nerve it is also within the canal, and about the middle of the long posterior root (Schlemm). Arteries Vessels of the Spinal Cord.— The arteries on the are surface of the cord are anterior and posterior spinal. Anterior a- The anterior spinal artery occupies the middle line of the aPsinagie cord .beneath the fibrous band before alluded to in that position, artery, commences at the medulla oblongata by the union of two small which 0 J comes branches of the vertebral artery (p. 186.) ; and it is continued to from . verte- the lower part of the cord by a series of anastomotic branches, which ' are derived from the vertebral and ascending cervical arteries in and is the neck, and from the intercostal and lumbar arteries in the nued'by dorsal and lumbar regions. The branches of this artery ramify in motic°" tne P*a mater, and are then distributed to the substance of the cord, branch-] gome entering the median fissures. Inferiorly it supplies the roots Termi- °f *ne nerves forming the cauda equina, and ends on the central nation, fibrous prolongation of the cord. Poste- b. The posterior spinal arteries, one on each side, are continued arteries from the upper to the lower part of the cord, behind the roots of are two; ^e nerves> Dividing into small branches, the vessels of opposite sidesof sides form a free anastomosis around the posterior roots, and some thefr'dis- °^sets enter the fissure of the cord. These vessels begin supe- rior^" T10r^y hy offsets from the vertebral artery, and their continuity is are con- maintained by a series of anastomotic branches, which enter the tmued canal along the spinal nerves, and are furnished from the same along cj r ' Mktfan source as twigs that reinforce the anterior spinal artery, terior. The veins of the spinal cord are very tortuous, and form a Veins plexus on the surface. At intervals, larger trunks arise, which pass accompany the spinal nerves to the intervertebral foramina, and spinal €n(l m the veins outside the spinal canal. Near the top of the canal. Cord the veins are united into two or more small branches; these natfonat terminate in the inferior cerebellar, or in the petrosal sinuses, after lord* communicating with the vertebral veins. situation The spinal cord (medulla spinalis) is the cylindrical cord6 elongated part of the cerebro-spinal centre that is enclosed within the spinal canal. Invested by the membranes beforeTHE SPINAL CORD. 431 examined, the medulla occupies about two thirds of the length of the canal formed by the vertebrae, and is much smaller than the bony case that surrounds it. The extent of the cord is from the level of the atlas to the its ex- lower border of the first lumbar vertebra, but its termination tent inferiorly may be a little higher or lower than that spot, varies Its length is usually about sixteen or seventeen inches. Length. Superiorly the cord joins the medulla oblongata; and infe- inferior riorly it becomes pointed, being sometimes marked by One tion in or two swellings, and ends by the fibrous prolongation of the Suit pia mater, named the central ligament of the cord. In the and in embryo, before the third month, the medulla reaches all the bryo.m~ length of the spinal canal, but it afterwards gradually recedes from below, as the surrounding bones increase in size, until it takes the position it has in the adult. The size of the spinal cord is much increased opposite the its size origin of the nerves for the supply of the limbs. There are creased therefore two enlargements on it: — one corresponds to the tnheere lower cervical vertebra?, reaching as high as the third ; the of [IIs other is smaller, and is on a level with the last dorsal verte- aSat. . bra. In the cervical enlargement, the greatest thickness is tachetL from side to side; but in the inferior swelling the measure- ment of the cord is greatest from before backwards. Whilst the pia mater remains on the cord, the anterior Anterior surface is distinguished from the posterior by the central Kin- fibrous band and the anterior spinal artery; and by the fromhed irregular line of the anterior roots, which approaches the Sor?" centre towards the lower end. Dissection. — For the examination of the structure the Dissec. student should possess a piece of the cord which has been ^Von- hardened in spirit, for that which is obtained from the spinal 0fcord!s canal, at this period, is not fitted for the purpose of dissec- tion. Supposing the pia mater removed from the surface of the cord, without the roots of the nerves being detached, the student will be able to observe the following divisions in it: — Fissures of the Cord. — On both the anterior and pos- Fissures terior aspects of the cord is a median longitudinal cleft, the cordlre, anterior and posterior median fissures, which mark its divi- sion into halves; and along the line of the posterior roots of the nerves, in each half, is another slit, the lateral fissure.432 DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. anterior a. The anterior median fissure is wider than the posterior, and penetrates about one-third of the thickness of the medulla. It is lined by a fold of the pia mater, and is deepest towards the lower end of the cord. The medullary substance of the surface enters the fissure, lining it; and in the bottom of the cleft the white fibres are transverse, and are separated by apertures for bloodvessels, posterior b. The posterior median fissure is not so wide, nor so well median' marked as the anterior, but it is best seen at the upper part of the neck, and in the lower enlargement. The vessels at the posterior aspect of the cord enter this fissure. and c. The lateral fissure (posterior) is situate along the line figure. °f attachment of the fibrils of the posterior roots. It reaches inwards to the gray matter in the interior of the medulla. Sup- Some anatomists describe another lateral fissure (anterior) other along the line of origin of the anterior roots, but there is fissure, not any cleft in that situation. The Segments of the Cord. — Each half of the cord, viz. from oivfded tne anterior to the posterior median fissure, is divided into int0 two parts by the lateral sulcus: the piece in front of that slit and the posterior roots of the nerves is called the antero- lateral column, and the piece behind, the posterior column. A central or commissural piece unites the halves of the medulla. antero- a' ^ne anler0-lateral column includes rather more than column ^wo thirds of the half of the cord, extending backwards to the posterior roots of the nerves, and gives attachment to the anterior roots. b. The posterior column is situate between the posterior and pos- ± 1 terior roots of the nerves and the central fissure along the posterior column, . aspect of the cord. Near the median fissure, is a slight groove or furrow, which marks off a' slender piece, the pos- terior median column: this separation is best seen in the cervical part of the cord, with c, The commissure of the cord is the central piece con- commis. nec|jjng ^e haIves of the medulla, and limiting the depth of the median fissures. Different Different division of the cord.—Each half of the cord division . of it. is sometimes divided into three parts or columns — anterior, lateral, and posterior, whose limits are the following: — The anterior reaches from the anterior roots of the nerves to the433 STRUCTURE OF THE CORD. median fissure in front, and is in a line with the anterior pyramid of the medulla oblongata (p. 200.). The lateral column is limited before and behind by the roots of the nerves, and is continued with that name into the medulla oblongata. The posterior, with its small segment, is placed between the posterior roots and the median fissure behind: above, it is prolonged into the restiform body. Structure of the Cord.—A horizontal section of the Cord . . . consists medulla shows more distinctly the division into halves, of gray • and with the commissural or connecting piece between them, white . P . i matter; The same cut demonstrates the existence of white and gray matter in its composition, as in the brain; but it will be at once perceived, that the gray substance is surrounded by the white, instead of being external to it as in the ence- phalon. a. The commissural piece consists chiefly of a transverse these in „ , . , commis- band ot gray matter, but it has a white stratum at the sure, anterior part. The gray part consists of nerve cells, and of transverse struc-^ nerve fibres derived from the opposite halves of the cord the gray and the posterior roots of the nerves. In its centre is a streak or band of a lighter yellow colour, which has been named the gray nucleus by Kolliker, and is composed of small multinuclear, and branched cells. ' the white partly by fibres of the anterior column; and partly by fibres Part- of the anterior roots of the nerves, which here decussate as they cross from one half to the other (Kolliker). It is best marked opposite the enlargements on the cord, and least developed in the dorsal region. b. In the half of the medulla, the gray and white material The ° ^ m same in have the same position to one another as in the commissure, the half _ - ' ofthe but the former is elongated from before back, and is quite cord, surrounded by the latter. The gray matter has the same general structure as that in struc- the commissural piece, and is of a semilunar or crescentic tu? 1 7 and ar- shape, with the horns of the crescent directed towards the ranse- x ment of roots of the nerves, and the convexity to the centre of the the Part cord: the crescentic masses in opposite halves of the cord Connec. are united by the commissure. The posterior cornu is long the cres- and slender, and reaches to the fissure along the attachment of F F434 DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. the posterior roots: at its extremity it is cased with a more transparent stratum of small nerve cells, which has been S^bstan- named the substantia gelatinosa of Rolando. The anterior tlnosaf" cornu is shorter and thicker than the other, and projects towards the anterior roots without reaching the surface of the cord. Arrange- The white covering of the half of the cord is composed white° chiefly of nerve fibres disposed longitudinally in bundles, so as to give passage to intermediate vessels. By the projec- tion of the cornua of the gray crescent towards the surface, it is separated more or less completely into three parts — an- terior, middle, and posterior, corresponding to the columns of the cord; but the anterior and middle portions are united along their line of contact, because the cornu does not reach the surface. Deep Origin of the Nerves. — The deep origin of the spinal origin of . pi • nerves nerves is uncertain, like that of the cranial nerves : the tain. fibrils in each root enter the gray matter of the cord, but their precise connection with it has not been made out.* Anterior The anterior roots penetrate between the anterior and lateral columns into the anterior cornu of the gray mass, and are connected with the anterior column of the opposite side, from and the lateral column of the same side in this way:—In anterior ... column the gray matter the fibrils divide into two sets: One is di- ofother & J side. rected inwards, forming part of the white layer on the front with a of the commissural piece of the cord, and ends in the anterior tion, column of the opposite side; so that the roots of opposite halves of the cord decussate on the front of the commissure, and from The other more considerable part of the root turns outwards lateral column to the anterior part of the lateral column of the same side, of same side. and its fibres are continuous with it. Posterior The posterior roots enter the cord between the lateral and roots •it from posterior columns, and are connected with both those columns of the same side, if not of both sides of the cord, after passing through the substantia gelatinosa. As in the other root, the hinder fibrils divide in the gray substance : some of these bend up- raidco*te" wards, and become continuous especially with the posterior column: whilst the others, penetrating deeper, are con- * The statement in the text respecting the origin of the nerves, em- bodies the views of Professor Kolliker. In many respects these cor- respond with opinions previously held.435 F f 2 INTRASPINAL VESSELS. nected with the lateral column, and enter the gray part of same side. the commissure of the cord. By means of the transverse Perhaps .fibres in the commissure the posterior root may possibly be °ift°ppo' connected, like the anterior root, with the opposite half of the cord. Neither in the anterior nor in the posterior roots could Do A m nerve Kolliker discover any junction of the nerve cells with the ^sand nerve fibres, whilst these were in the gray substance. j°in ? Intraspinal Vessels.— The arteries in the interior of vessels the spinal canal supply the cord and its membranes, and the spinal bodies of the vertebras. The veins form a remarkable plexus within the canal, but much of this will be destroyed in the process of sawing the bones and removing the cord. The intraspinal arteries are derived from the vessels Source along the sides and front of the spinal column, viz. from the intra- vertebral and ascending cervical, from the intercostal, and arteries, from the lumbar and lateral sacral. As each artery enters the spinal canal by the intervertebral Distri- foramen, it divides into two branches, upper and lower: these the^ver!0 branches are directed, one upwards and the other downwards, be- and"the hind the bodies of the two contiguous vertebras and outside the cord- edge of the posterior common ligament, to join in anastomotic loops with offsets of the intraspinal artery above and below. These loops extend from one intervertebral foramen to another, and furnish branches to the periosteum, and the bodies of the ver- tebras on their posterior surface, as well as anastomotic twigs to connect the arches across the vertebras. The intraspinal veins cannot be dissected unless they are veins injected. They consist of two anterior longitudinal veins, thehm which extend the whole length of the spinal canal behind canal are the bodies of the vertebras; of veins from the bodies of the larse* vertebrae; and of a plexus of veins beneath the plates or arches of the vertebrae. a. The anterior longitudinal veins are close to the bodies of the Anterior vertebrae, one on each side of the common ligament uniting those d°inaitU" bones; and are irregular in outline, owing to certain constrictions near the intervertebral foramina. They receive opposite the body are on of each vertebra the vein from that bone ; and they send outwards, verte- through the intervertebral foramina, branches of communication brae' with the veins outside the spine in the neck, the dorsal region, and the loins. b. Veins of the bodies of the vertebrae. — Within the canals in the Veins of436 DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. the ver- bodies of the vertebrae are contained large veins, that join on the tebrse front 0f eacn vertebra with veins in that situation ; and unite to- gether, behind, into one trunk, that passes from the bone by the large aperture on the posterior surface. Escaped from the bone, the trunk divides into two branches that run, one to the right another to the left, to open into the large longitudinal veins. Posterior c. The posterior spinal veins form a plexus between the dura veins are mater and the laminae of the vertebrae. A large vein may be said tact°with to lie on each side of the middle line, which joins freely with its lammse. fe|iow? an(j w^]j ^he anterior longitudinal vein by lateral branches. Into this plexus the small veins on the outside of the laminae pour their contents. Branches from these vessels are directed to the intervertebral foramina, where they end in the veins at the roots of the transverse processes.437 F F 3 CHAPTER VII. DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. Section I. PERINEUM OF THE MALE. Directions. — The perinseum should belong to the abdomen Before in the division of the body, and its examination should section . pass ca- be made before that of the abdomen, because the distinct- theter. ness of many of the parts is destroyed soon after death. Before the body is placed in the position suited for the dis- section, the student may practise passing the catheter along the urethra. Position of the body. — Whilst the body lies on the back ™™*£e it is to be drawn to the end of the dissecting table, till the position, buttocks hang slightly over it. A moderately sized block is then to be placed beneath the pelvis, to raise the perineum to a convenient height. The legs are to be raised and and kept out of the way by the following means : —After the upwards thighs are bent upon the trunk, and the knees also bent, the limbs are to be fastened in that position with a cord. For this purpose make one or two turns of the cord round one bent knee (say the right), carry the cord beneath the table, and encircling the opposite limb in the same manner, fasten it finally round the right knee. When the position has been arranged, let the student raise the scrotum, and place a small bit of cotton wool or tow within the anus, but let him avoid distending the rectum. Superficial limits, and marking of the surface. — The The perinseal space in the male is limited on the surface of the presents body by the scrotum in front, and by the thighs and buttocks on the sides and behind. This region is of a dark colour, and is covered with hairs. About its centre is the aperture438 DISSECTION OF THE PERINiEUM. of the anus, which is posterior to a line extended from the the anus, anterior part of the one ischial tuberosity to the other. In front of the anus the surface is slightly convex, and presents a raphe, a longitudinal prominent line or raphe, which divides this hollow part of the space into two halves. Between the anus and of anus, the tuberosity of the ischium the surface is somewhat de- pressed, especially in emaciated bodies, and corresponds to and folds the hollow of the subjacent ischio-rectal fossa. The margin around of the anal aperture possesses numerous converging folds, opening, but these are more or less obliterated by the position of the body and the distension of the rectum ; and projecting often- times through and around the opening are some dilated hemorrhoidal veins (haemorrhoids). £gUparts DeeP boundaries. — The deep boundaries of the perinaeal samTas sPace w^ ^e ascertained, in the progress of the dissection, outlet of *° corresPond to the inferior aperture or the outlet of the pelvis, pelvis. The limits may be made out by referring to a dry or prepared pelvis, on which the ligaments remain entire; and the student should trace, on the body, the individual boundaries with his finger. In front, is the arch of the pubes with the subpubic ligament; and at the posterior part is the tip of the coccyx. On each side, from before back- wards, is that portion of the innominate bone, which consists of the ramus of the pubes and the ramus and tuberosity of the ischium; and still farther back is the great sacro-sciatic ligament extending from the tuberosity of the ischium to Form the tip of the coccyx. The space included within these boundaries has the form of a lozenge, and measures about four inches from before backwards, and three inches between the tuberosities of the ischium. A line from the front of tife^tube- *ne tuberosity of one side to the corresponding point on rosities 0therj wi}i divide the perinaeal space into two triangular parts. The anterior (urethral) half contains the penis and the urethra, with their muscles and accessory parts. The posterior (rectal) half is occupied by the lower end of the Depth large intestine, with its muscles, &c. The depth of the space! perinseum from the anus to the bladder may be said to be generally about three inches, but this measurement varies much in different bodies. of the A line divi it into two.439 POSTERIOR HALF OF PERINEAL SPACE. F F 4 POSTERIOR HALF OF THE SPACE. This portion of the perineal space contains the lower end Contents of the rectum, surrounded by its elevator muscle and by the muscles acting on its opening — the anus. The gut, however, general does not occupy the whole of the interval between the pelvic p0Sltl0n* bones; for on each side is a space, the ischio-rectal fossa, in which is much loose fat, together with the vessels and nerves that supply the end of the gut. Dissection. — The skin is to be raised from this division of pissec- the perinseum by the employment of the following cuts: — One is to be made across the perinseum at the front of the anus, and is to be extended rather beyond the tuberosity of the ischium on each side; a second is to be carried a little behind the tip of the coccyx, in the same direction and for the same distance. The two transverse cuts are then to be connected by carrying the knife along the middle line and around the anus. The two flaps of skin, thus marked out, are to be raised and thrown outwards from the middle line: in detaching the skin from the margin of the anus, the of superficial sphincter muscle may be injured, without care, tenant for it is close to the skin. The dissector should first trace that muscle back to the coccyx, and then forwards beneath the remaining piece of skin. The next step is to bring into view the hollow of the Differ- ischio-rectal fossa, between the side of the rectum and the exposing the tuberosity of the ischium : on the left side the fat is to be ischio- cleared out of it without reference to the vessels and nerves, fossa*! but on the opposite side a special dissection is to be made of these. To clean out the fat from the left fossa, begin at the pissec- outer margin of the sphincter, and from that point proceed left forwards and backwards. In front the dissection should not rectal extend beyond the anus, whilst behind it should lay bare the margin of the gluteus maximus. On the inner side of the hollow the fibres of the levator ani (sometimes very pale) and of the coccygeus are to be dissected; and on the outer boundary, the pudic vessels should be denuded, as they lie in a canal formed by fascia. On the opposite side it is not necessary to clean the mus- and of440 DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. that on cular fibres when following the vessels and nerves. If the right side, student begins at the outer border of the sphincter, he will vessels find the inferior hemorrhoidal vessels and nerve, which he nerves, may trace outwards to their trunks (pudic vessels and nerve): some branches of the nerve are to be followed for- wards to their junction with two other nerves, the superficial perineal and inferior pudendal. In the posterior angle of the space there is a small offset of the fourth sacral nerve ; and sometimes, external to it, one or more branches of the sciatic nerve and artery are found turning round the border of the gluteus. Near the front of the fossa is a superficial perineal artery and nerve (of the pudic) ; and the last, after communicating with the hemorrhoidal nerve, leaves the fossa in front. The trunks of the pudic vessels and nerve may be laid bare on the outer wall. situa- The ischio-rectal fossa is the space intervening between tion of <| i « « m ^ ~ . . f the fossa, the rectum and the ischial part of the innominate bone. Form. Form, size, and boundaries. — On a vertical section the interval would appear to be triangular, with its apex above Dimen- and its base towards the surface. Its width is about one slons' inch at the base, and its depth about two inches; but it is larger behind than before. It is filled by a soft granular Bound- fat. The inner side of the space is very oblique, and is bounded by the levator ani muscle, and slightly by the sphincter; but the outer side is straight, and corresponds to the obturator muscle and the fascia covering it. In front it is limited by the triangular ligament (to be afterwards seen); and behind by the great sacro-sciatic ligament and the largest gluteal muscle. Pudic' Position of vessels.—Along the outer wall are the pudic onSthes vessels and nerve; these lie in a tube of fascia, being one wan,r incn and a na^ from the margin of the tuberosity of the ischium, but towards the front of the space they approach and nearer to the edge of the ramus of that bone. Crossing the ?nrthe centre of the space are the inferior hemorrhoidal vessels spaee* and nerve,—branches of the pudic. At the anterior part, for a short distance, is a superficial perineal nerve (of the pudic); and in the posterior part is a small branch of the First cut fourth sacral nerve. Into this space the surgeon sinks his tomyh°" knife in the first incisions in the lateral operation of litho- i$£m tomy; and as he carries the knife from before backwards, space,441 MUSCLES OF THE ANUS. he will divide the superficial hemorrhoidal vessels and nerve. Muscles. — Connected with the lower end of the rectum Muscles are three muscles, two sphincters (external and internal) and tum.c" the levator ani. The external sphincter (sphincter ani externus) is a Exter- flat, thin, orbicular muscle, which is pointed in front and sphinc- behind, and surrounds the lower part of the rectum. As in rounds other orbicular muscles, the fibres form ellipses around a central aperture. The muscle arises posteriorly from the Origin, tip of the coccyx by a fibrous band, and from the superficial fascia in front of that bone. The fibres pass forwards to the anus, where they separate to encircle that aperture, and having again united in front of it, are inserted into the inser- superficial fascia and the central point of the perinaeum. The sphincter is close beneath the skin, and partly conceals connec- the levator ani. The outer border projects over the ischio- rectal fossa, and the inner is contiguous to the internal sphincter. The internal sphincter (sphincter ani internus) is internal v A ' sphinc- situate around the extremity of the intestine, internal to ter is . a Pa*e the preceding muscle, and will be seen by removing the £j^nd mucous membrane. The fibres of this muscle are pale, and the end r ' of the of a finer texture than those of the other sphincter. Some- gut. times they encircle the lower part of the rectum in the inserted form of a band, and are quite separate from the surrounding common muscular fibres; at other times they are connected before some- times. or behind with the contiguous muscles. The muscle may be considered to be only a band, about a third of an inch deep, of the circular fibres of the large intestine. The levator ani muscle can be seen now only in part, inser- J r 5 tion of and the external sphincter should be detached from the levator coccyx, that its insertion may be more apparent. The muscle descends from the inner aspect of the innominate bone to be inserted along the middle line, from the coccyx t0 coc- ° J cyx,to to the central point of the perinaeum. The most posterior \*D£™t fibres are connected to the side of the coccyx; and between oflt; that bone and the rectum the muscles of opposite sides are united in a central tendinous line. The middle fibres are to rec- i _ turn, blended with the anal muscles and the side of the intestine and to x . centre of (rectum). Whilst the anterior are joined with the fibres of peri- neeum.442 DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. the opposite muscle, in front of the rectum, in the central point of the perineum. This muscle bounds the ischio- rectal fossa on the inner side. Arteries Arteries. — The inferior hemorrhoidal is the only named space, branch of the pudic artery that is now dissected. Some other small branches of the pudic and sciatic are also seen. Inferior The inferior hcemorrhoidal artery arises from the trunk. rhoTdai" of the pudic, internal to the tuberosity of the ischium ; it divides into branches that pass inwards across the ischio- endson rectal fossa, and end in the skin, and the sphincter and andTits levator ani muscles. On the rectum this artery anastomoses muscle. w£tk t^e Upper anc[ middle hemorrhoidal branches, and with the artery of the opposite side. In a well-injected body, some cutaneous branches may be seen to run forwards to the anterior part of the perineum, and to communicate with Branch the superficial perineal branch. A vein accompanies the of vein. artery. other Other small branches of the pudic artery cross the front pudic. of the ischio-rectal fossa, and supply the anterior part of the levator ani muscle. Branch- Branches of the sciatic artery appear on the inner aspect the°sci- of the gluteus maximus at the back of the fossa; some end at,c* in that muscle, and others are continued round its border to the surface. Nerves. Nerves.—The branches of nerves are the inferior hemor- rhoidal, an offset of the fourth sacral nerve, and some branches of the small sciatic nerve, inferior The inferior hcemorrhoidal nerve is most frequently a rXai" branch of the pudic, though it may have a separate origin artery1 of from the sacral plexus. Accompanying the artery of the name, same name across the ischio-rectal fossa, it reaches the Termi- margin of the anus, where it terminates in offsets to the nation. ° ? integument and the sphincter muscle. Other cutaneous offsets of the nerve turn forwards over the fossa, and com- municate with the superficial perineal nerve, and with the inferior pudendal (of the small sciatic) on the margin of the thigh. Branch The hcemorrhoidal branch of the fourth sacral nerve nerve™1 reaches the ischio-rectal fossa by piercing the fibres of the coccygeus, or by passing between that muscle and the levator ani. Appearing in the posterior part of the fossa, close toANTERIOR HALF OF PERINEAL SPACE. 443 the coccyx, the nerve ends by supplying the external sphinc- supplies t i t t • *i i sphinc- ter, and the integument behind the anus. ter. One or two cutaneous branches of the small sciatic nerve cuta- turn round the lower border of the gluteus, in their course to offsets the integuments on its surface, sciatic. ANTERIOR HALF OF THE PERINEAL SPACE. In the anterior part of the perinatal space the tube of the contents urethra is lodged, as this comes from the interior of the pelvis to the surface of the body. It is supported about midway and ge- between the bones by a fibrous structure, named the trian- sition of gular ligament. Muscles are collected around it, to aid in parts* the expulsion of the urine: some of these are before, and some behind the triangular ligament before alluded to. The vessels and nerve lie, as in the posterior half, along the outer side, and send inwards offsets. Supporting the anterior part of the urethra is the penis : this body with its muscles and vessels has to be examined generally with the other contents of this division of the peri- nasal space. Dissection. — To raise the skin from the anterior part of incisions the perinaeum, a transverse cut is to be made at the back of the skin, the scrotum, and continued for a short distance (two inches) on each thigh. A second incision along the middle line will allow the flaps of skin to be reflected. After the reflection of the skin the superficial fascia, Blow up covering the front of the perinatal space, is to be blown up cpafes- by means of a blow-pipe introduced beneath it at the poste- reflect it. rior part. Each side is to be inflated to demonstrate the fact that a partition exists behind in the middle line : at the same time, it will be evident that there is another partition between the space and the thigh, for the air does not pass along the limb. The student is next to cut through the superficial fascia, on the left side, from the scrotum to the ischio-rectal fossa, and to remove some cellular membrane, in order to bring into view the line of attachment of that fascia to the bones externally, and to the triangular ligament posteriorly: the septum along the middle line should also be defined. To demonstrate more completely Define the partition of the superficial fascia between the perineal betweenDISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 444 thigh space and the thigh, which is connected with the rami of the rinseaf pubes and ischium, it will be necessary to take away, on the space. side, the fat from the fascia lata of the thigh, external to the line of the bones before mentioned, on right Amongst the fat of the thigh on the right side, the student inferior, should seek the inferior pudendal nerve, which pierces the dai fascia lata about one inch anterior to the tuberosity of the nerve. ischium, and the same distance from the margin of the ramus of that bone ; and should trace its junction with the inferior hemorrhoidal nerve in the fat. Afterwards this nerve is to be followed forwards to where it enters beneath the piece of the superficial fascia in the middle line. Superfi- The superficial fascia of the anterior half of the perinaeum cia. is continuous with that of the rest of the body, extending on each side to the thigh, in front to the scrotum, and back- its thick- wards around the anus. Its depth., and the quantity of fat ries!va" in it will vary with the condition of the body. It resembles biesethat the superficial fascia of the groin and the upper part of the In having thigh? in having two strata;—one is a subcutaneous fatty ers?Iay" stratum, continuous with that in other parts of the body; and the other is a deeper membranous layer, which is of limited extent, and is connected with the firm subjacent structures. Air blown beneath the fascia has been seen to pass only forwards to the scrotum; and this direction is given to it by the connections of the deeper layer on the under surface. Con- An examination of the deep or membranous stratum will of deep show it to have the following attachments : — On the outer ldyer* side it is fixed to the rami of the pubes and ischium, exter- nal to the line of the crus penis and its muscle, extending as low as the tuberosity of the ischium. Posteriorly the stratum bends down to join the triangular ligament of the perinasum; but in front it is unattached, and is continued to Forms a the scrotum and the penis. By means of similar connections openVn on both sides, a pouch is formed over the anterior half of the this*' Perin9e&l space underneath the superficial fascia. From the byVaded 'un(^er surface of this part of the fascia a septum dips down- septum. Wards, and divides the subjacent space posteriorly into two parts ; but anteriorly this partition is less perfect or disap- Course pears. Should urine be effused beneath the membranous urLe!e part of the fascia, the fluid will necessarily be directed for-445 SUPERFICIAL PERINEAL VESSELS AND NERVES. wards, through the scrotum, to the penis and the front of the abdomen. Dissection. — The superficial vessels and nerves are to be Dissec- traced beneath the superficial fascia, on the right side of the nerves; perineum, by cutting through it there in the same manner seis on" as on the left side. One long slender artery is the superficial side? perineal, which gives a transverse branch near its com- mencement : sometimes there are two superficial branches. Two superficial perinasal nerves are to be found with the artery; and the inferior pudendal is to be traced forwards to the scrotum. Communications are to be sought between these nerves anteriorly, and between one of the perinaeal and the inferior haemorrhoidal posteriorly; and all the nerves are to be followed back to their origin. Arteries. — The arteries beneath the fascia, viz. super- super- ficial and transverse perinaeal, are branches of the pudic, and vessels are two or three in number. of pudlc* The superficial perinaeal branch is given off from the pudic artery super- in front of the branch to the rectum. Perforating usually the base perinasal of the triangular ligament, it turns forwards over or under the transverse muscle, and beneath the superficial fascia, to the back of the scrotum, where it ends in flexuous branches for that part, ends in As the vessel lies beneath the fascia, internal to the rami of the scrotum' ischium and pubes, it supplies offsets to the muscles beneath; and sup- and in front, it anastomoses with the external or superficial pudic muscles! arteries. Sometimes there is a second superficial perinaeal branch. At the origin of the superficial perinaeal, some other muscular other branches pass inwards to the front of the levator ani. larSCU" The transverse artery of the perinaeum arises from the preceding, esfnch" or at the same spot, and is directed transversely to the middle of Trans- the perinaeal space, where it is distributed to the integuments and Irtery. the transverse muscles. It anastomoses with the one of the oppo- site side. Branches of veins correspond to those of the artery, and veins open into the trunk of the pudic vein. Series? Nerves. — There are three long cutaneous nerves of the cuta- scrotum, viz. the inferior pudendal from the small sciatic, Selves and two superficial perinaeal branches from the pudic nerve, tum. The superficial perinceal nerves, two in number, are two su- named anterior and posterior from their relative position at peffnseai • their origin: they arise from the perinaeal branch of the pudic nerve.DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 446 Poste- ct. The posterior branch appears at the front of the ischio-rectal nor fossa, and entering beneath the superficial fascia, is continued for- crosses wards with the artery of the same name to the back of the scro- fossa turn. Whilst in the fossa, the nerve gives inwards an offset to the scrotum integuments in front of the anus, and this communicates with the inferior hemorrhoidal nerve, and an- b. The anterior branch, appearing somewhat farther forward than has same the other, passes either over or under the transverse muscle, and as poste- accompanies the posterior branch to the scrotum. At its origin rlor; muscular offsets are furnished to the levator ani muscle, muscular Other muscular branches arise from the pudic nerve at the same branch- gpot ag ^e preceding nerve, but these will be afterwards examined, both are The superficial perinaeal branches communicate with one Inddis- another, and the posterior one is joined by the inferior toscro- pudendal nerve. At the scrotum they are distributed by penis!™1 long slender filaments, some of which reach as far as the under surface of the penis. In the female these nerves supply the labia pudendi. inferior The inferior pudendal nerve is a branch of the small nervedal sciatic ; it pierces the fascia lata about one inch in front of the tuberosity of the ischium, and coursing forwards along the inner part of the thigh, enters beneath the superficial fascia of the perinaeum ; finally, it passes forwards with the ends in superficial perineal nerves, and ends in the outer part and and joins the front of the scrotum. A communication takes place ciaPiept" between this nerve and the posterior of the two superficial nnasai. perjna3a]^ branches. In the female the inferior pudendal nerve is distributed to the labium, other On the surface of the thigh some other offsets (internal small i branches) of the small sciatic nerve may be observed. Dissec- Dissection. — For the dissection of the muscles, the super- m°unSc4> ficial fascia, as well as well as the vessels and nerves that urethra nave been examined, must be taken away from the anterior penis. nalf °f perinaeal space: it will be also necessary to re- move a thin subjacent aponeurotic layer from the muscles. The muscle in the middle line is the accelerator urinae; and in cleaning it the student is to follow two fasciculi of fibres, the posterior and anterior, which are prolonged from it. On the outer side of the space is the erector penis ; and . behind, passing horizontally between the other two, is the transverse muscle, of The student should seek, on the right side, the branches of nerves.447 MUSCLES OF THE PERINEUM. nerves to the muscles: to the erector penis there is a sepa- rate branch, and beneath the transversalis is the offset that supplies the other two muscles and the urethra. Muscles. — Superficial to the triangular ligament, in the ™™,ees anterior half of the perineal space, are three muscles, viz. j^°™u_ the erector penis, the acclerator urinse, and the transversalis ^^j.ga" peringei. Other muscles of the urethra are beneath the tri- angular ligament and will be subsequently seen. Central point of the perinceum. — Between the urethra Central 1 J J . point. and the rectum is a white fibrous spot, to which this term has been applied. It occupies the middle line, being, as the name expresses, nearly in the centre of the perinasum : in it whe-e most of the muscles acting on the rectum and the urethra join, are united; and it serves as a common point of support to the space. The erector penis is i the most external of the three Erector penis. muscles, and is narrower at each end than in the middle. It covers the crus penis, and its fibres arise from the inner Origin, surface of the tuberosity of the ischium further back than the attachment of the crus of the penis, and from the ramus of the pubes on each side of the crus. Superiorly the mus- cle ends in an aponeurosis, and is inserted into the inner and inser- outer surfaces of the crus penis. The muscle rests on the crus of the penis and the bone. The accelerator urinse muscle lies on the urethra along Acceie- the middle line of the perinseum. The muscles of opposite udnL. sides join through the interposition of a median tendon. Each muscle arises from the common tendon along the origin middle line and from the central point of the perineum, die^ine. The fibres are directed outwards, curving around the con- vexity of the urethra, and give rise to a thin muscle, which has the following insertion: — The most posterior are lost On Inser- the anterior surface of the triangular ligament. The ante- th°reeby rior fibres, which are the longest and best marked, turn parts round the penis to be inserted on its outer aspect ,anterior to the erector; and, according to Kobelt*, they send a ten- dinous expansion over the dorsal vessels of the penis. Whilst the middle or intervening fibres turn round the urethra, * Die Mannlichen mid Weiblichen Wollust- Organe, von G. L. Kobelt, 1844.DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 448 passing between it and the body of the penis, and join in a covers central tendon with the muscle of the opposite side. The thra, and accelerator muscle covers the bulb, and the urethra for two rounds inches in front of the triangular ligament. If the muscle be siing. cut through on the right side, and turned off the urethra, the insertion on the opposite aspect of that tube will be ap- parent. com- Some of the deeper fibres, that immediately surround the pressor t of the bulb, have been described as a separate stratum by Kobelt. These are separated by a cellular layer from the superficial, and join those of the opposite side by a small tendon above the urethra. The name compressor hemisphcerium bulbi has been proposed for it by that anatomist. Trans. The transversalis perin^ei is a small thin muscle, which perin^i. lies across the perinaeum opposite the base of the triangular Origin, ligament. Arising by a tendon from the inner aspect of the ascending ramus of the ischium, the fibres run inwards, Ends in and join in the central point of the perinaeum with the point muscle of the opposite side, and with the sphincter ani and nseum! the accelerator urinae. Behind this muscle the superficial fascia dips down to join the triangular ligament. Acces- Sometimes there is a second small muscular slip anterior trans- to the transversalis, which has been named transversalis alter ; this throws itself into the accelerator muscle. a trian- Now the three muscles above described have been separated fpiee from one another by the dissection, they may be seen to en- the close a triangular space, of which the accelerator urinae forms muscles the inner boundary, the erector penis the outer side, and the scribed, transversalis perinaei muscle the base. In the area of this interval is the triangular ligament of the urethra, with the The superficial perinaeal vessels and nerves. Into the posterior enters part of this space the knife enters during the deeper incisions iitho-n in the operations of lithotomy ; and as the instrument is tomy* carried backwards in the direction of the external incision, it will cut the transverse muscle and artery, and probably the superficial perinaeal vessels and nerves. Dissec- Dissection.—Yov the display of the triangular ligament, see" t0 the structures that are superficial to it, viz. the muscles and guiar the crus penis are to be detached in the following way :— On mint, the left side the accelerator urinae is to be removed com- pletely from the front of the ligament, and the erector muscleTRIANGULAR PERINEAL LIGAMENT. 449 from the crus of the penis. The same steps may be repeated on the right side, if it is thought desirable; but the dissector should observe, before cutting away the mus- cles, the branches of the nerve to them : one nerve is also to be traced to the urethra. Next, the crus penis is to be de- tached from the bone on the left side, and, if necessary, on the right side also; but this must be done with care so as not to cut the triangular ligament at the same time, and not to injure near the pubes the terminal parts of the pudic artery to the penis. The triangular ligament of the urethra (perinaeal aponeu- Jj^J1- rosis) occupies the anterior part of the pubic arch, and sup- JjsjU" f ports the urethral canal. The ligament is of a triangular form, urethra, with the apex above and the base below; and is about one anxdtent inch and a half in depth. On the sides it is fixed to the form' rami of the pubes and ischium, beneath the crura penis. Its apex is prolonged on the front of the symphysis pubis, and joins the periosteum. Its base is turned towards the rec- tum, and is partly attached and partly free; in the middle Attach- . . i.ii , . p , . ments. line it is connected with the central point 01 the perinaeum, whilst laterally it is sloped towards the bone, so that it mea- sures less in the centre than at the sides: connected with the lower border, is a thin fascia that covers the surface of the levator ani muscle in the ischio-rectal fossa. The ante- Anterior rior surface is in contact with the muscles in the anterior half of the perinaeal space, and the superficial fascia is united to it near the lower border. Perforating the ligament about Aper- one inch below the symphysis pubis is the canal of the ure- inT thra, but the margin of the opening, that gives passage to thn£re" the tube, is blended by means of fibres with the tissue of the urethra. About midway between the preceding opening and for dor- the symphysis pubis, is the aperture for the dorsal vein of ofpenS, the penis; and external to the last, near the bone on each dorsal side, the terminal parts of the pudic nerve and artery to the and penis perforate the ligament. The triangular ligament is nerves' composed chiefly of transverse fibres, but it is so thin as to consists allow the vessels and the muscular fibres to be seen through it. of fibres* Beneath the ligament are the membranous part of the ure- parts be- thra, with its muscles, vessels and glands, as the subsequent neath* dissection will show. In some anatomical works the triangular ligament of the urethra Dif- G G . .DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 450 ferent is said to consist of two layers (anterior and posterior), that enclose trian- the membranous part of the urethra with its muscular fibres. The fig!?-1* structure, which has been described as the posterior layer, is part ment. 0f tne fascia lining the interior of the pelvis, and is not perforated by the membranous canal of the urethra. Dissec- Dissection, — The muscles connected with the urethra be- tion. hind or beneath the ligament will be reached by cutting with care, on the left side, the triangular ligament near its attachment to the bone, and raising and turning inwards the piece of membrane. By a little cautious dissection, and the removal of some veins, the following objects will come into view with the undermentioned position : — Parts Parts beneath the ligament. — Near the base of the liga- beneath . . -, , trian- ment is a narrow transverse muscle, which is directed to the Hga-' bulb of the urethra. Coming downwards to the urethra, from behind the ramus of the pubes, is the fasciculus of fibres of the compressor urethrae muscle, which surrounds the membranous part of the urethra. And below the urethra are the two glands of Cowper. Beneath the bone (rami of the ischium and pubes) are the pudic artery and nerve, the former giving its branch to the bulb; and below the pubes is the subpubic ligament. Deeper than all, the student will be able to recognise the layer of the pelvic fascia that separates these parts from the cavity of the pelvis. Muscles Muscles. — The muscles beneath the triangular ligament, thra. which are connected with the membranous part of the urethra, are two in number, viz. a deep transverse muscle, and a constrictor of the urethral passage. Deep The deep transverse muscle of the perinasum (elevator trans- L v verse, urethras, Santorini) is a thin flat band, on a level with the Origin, base of the triangular ligament. It arises externally from the upper part of the ramus of the ischium, and occasionally from the ramus of the pubes, and is directed inwards below the tip of the bulb and the membranous part of the urethra, Termi- to join (sometimes by a tendon) the muscle of the opposite side, and to be inserted into the central point of the peri- nasum. This muscle conceals Cowper's gland near the bulb, and is frequently placed over the artery of the bulb. con- The constrictor muscle of the urethra (constrictor strictor . of me- isthmi urethralis) encloses the membranous part of that tube, passage from the bulb to the prostate gland. It consists of twoDEEP MUSCLES OF THE URETHRA. 451 G G 2 parts, viz. one of transverse fibres, both above and below has two the urethra, which are connected on each side to the arch of the pubes ; and a deeper layer of circular fibres. The transverse part of the muscle arises by aponeurotic Jerras"s" fibres from the descending ramus of the pubes, for the dis- tance of half or three quarters of an inch ; but this attach- £r°™g> ment is not evident unless the muscle has been dissected from behind. From this origin the fibres pass inwards, and separate near the urethra into two layers, of which one passes over, the other under that canal; in the middle line and these unite, sometimes by tendinous bands, with the muscle middle of the opposite side. Or the fibres may be described as ex- tending across the perinseum from the one lateral attachment over and to the other, and enclosing the tube of the urethra in their ure- passage like the sphincter ani encircles the rectum. The deeper circular part surrounds the urethra between circular the bulb and the prostate ; its fibres do not reach outwards part' to the bone, but are blended with the transverse fibres of the other portion of the muscle.* The glands of Cowper will be found by cutting through cow- the transverse muscle: they are situate below the mem- gTands. branous part of the urethra, one on each side of the middle situa- tion and line, and close behind the bulb. Each gland is about the size, size of a pea, and is made up of many small lobules. Con- nected with each is a minute duct, nearly an inch in length, Length which perforates obliquely the wall of the urethra (corp US mina- spongiosum), and opens into the urethral canal about half an tliTduct. inch in front of the triangular ligament: the aperture of the duct in the ordinary condition of the parts does not admit a bristle. These bodies are sometimes so small as to escape detection, and they appear to decrease in size with advancing age. Dissection, — The student may complete the examination Dissee- of the perinaeum by tracing out the pudic vessels and nerve, thTpu- and their remaining branches. From the point of its divi- seised nerve. * Further information respecting this muscle may be obtained by consulting the Septemdecim Tabula; of Santorini; a Paper by Wilson (James), in the first volume of the Med. Chirur. Transactions; the Work of Mr. Guthrie, On the Anatomy and Diseases of the Neck of the Bladder and Urethra; and the Treatise of J. Muller, Ueber die Organ- ischen Nerven der erectilen Mdnnlichen Geschlechts Organe, 8fc.DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 452 sion into two branches (dorsal branch of penis and branch of the corpus cavernosum) beneath the cms, the artery is to be followed backwards along the outer wall of the right ischio-rectal fossa. The pudic nerve is exposed at the same time, and should any of the branches be cut away, the cor- responding ones may be sought on the opposite side. Pudic The pudic artery is a branch of the internal iliac ; it enters artery r u the perinseal space through the small sacro-ischiatic notch, and is distributed to the perinaeum and the genital organs, courses Entering the posterior part of the ischio-rectal fossa, the ramus of artery extends forwards along the outer wall about one inch and a half above the tuberosity of the ischium, and is con- tained in an aponeurotic canal, which attaches it to the fascia covering the obturator muscle: but at the base of the triangular ligament the vessel is near the margin of the and of ramus of the pubes. It then ascends beneath the triangular pubes, ijgamentj an(j aiong the ramus of the os pubis nearly to the and ends subpubic ligament, where it perforates the triangular liga- on penis. ... ° ment, and divides into the artery of the body, and that of the dorsum of the penis. Branch- The branches of the vessel in the perinatal space are nume- es not yet seen rous. The superficial offsets, viz. inferior hemorrhoidal, are: transverse perinseal, and superficial perineal, have been ex- amined : the remaining, for the supply of the penis and the urethra, are subjoined : — Artery of The artery of the bulb of the urethra is a branch of considerable beneath sizei anc^ arises near the base of the triangular ligament. Passing fa^iiga" almost transversely inwards beneath the ligament, and about half ment. an inch from the base of it, the artery reaches the bulb of the urethra, and enters its spongy structure. Near the urethra it furnishes a small branch to Cowper's gland. Its g. The distance of this branch from the base of the ligament de- lation pends upon its origin at a point nearer the front or back of the perinseal space. If the vessel arises farther behind than usual, it may be altogether below the base of the ligament, and cross the front of the ischio-rectal fossa; but if it arises more anteriorly, as when it comes from an accessory pudic branch (see below), its The im- position will be higher than the level of the bulb. From the size of this06 °f vessel its place is important in the operation of lithotomy : in litho- \n the case first mentioned, it would be liable to be cut across, tomy. ... . whilst in the last it would be altogether out of the way of the knife. Artery The artery of the cavernous structure of the penis (art. corporis vanes.453 PUDIC VESSELS AND NERVE. G G 3 cavernosi) is one of the terminal branches of the pudic. At first of body this small vessel lies between the crus penis and the bone, but it of pems' soon enters the cavernous structure of the penis, and ramifies in it. The dorsal artery of the penis is in direction and size the con- Artery tinuation of the pudic ; it runs upwards like the preceding between sumof the crus penis and the bone, and reaches the dorsum of the penis penis* by passing between the layers of the suspensory ligament. Its distribution with the accompanying nerve is noticed at page 465. It is much smaller in the female than in the male. Accessory pudic. — In some cases the pudic is not large Acces- enough to supply all the branches above described to the pudic ° ri J . arterv, penis and the urethra. Then one or more will be contributed by an accessory artery, which leaves the pelvis, in front, by piercing the triangular ligament. The source of this artery source, is the internal iliac, like that of the pudic. The pudic vein has the same connections, and the same Pudic branches as the artery, with the exception that the dorsal vein of the penis does not join it. The pudic nerve is derived from the sacral plexus, and P^ic ■* m A nerve is distributes offsets corresponding to the branches of the pudic with ar- artery. Accompanying the blood vessels, the nerve enters the posterior part of the ischio-rectal fossa, and supplies there the inferior hemorrhoidal (p. 442.), and a large perinaeal branch. Much diminished in size, it continues with and ends 1 m m like it on the artery without branching, pierces the triangular ligament penis, of the urethra near the pubes, and is continued onwards to the dorsum of the penis with the dorsal branch of the pudic artery; its termination is described at page 465. The fol- lowing are its offsets : — The perinatal branch is distributed to the perinseum: it first sup- Perinasai plies the superficial perinaeal nerves, which have been already seen (p. 445.), and then extends forwards below the pudic artery, nearly to the base of the triangular ligament, where it ends in offsets to ends in the muscles, as well as to the bulb of the urethra. lowing Muscular branches. — One turns outwards to enter the under muscu- surface of the erector, penis ; others pass beneath the transversalis, sets, supplying it and the accelerator urinse; and one or two other slender filaments pierce the triangular ligament, and supply the muscles beneath it. The nerve of the bulb is a long slender branch that supplies, like Ne the artery, the spongy structure investing the canal of the urethra. ^Lib. Some of its filaments run for a great distance on the surface before entering the corpus spongiosum urethra?. v * V of the454 DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. Parrs Parts cut in the operation of lithotomy, — A review of the litho- relative position of the parts in the perinaeum will bring to tomy* mind those that must be injured in reaching the bladder, and those that are to be avoided, in cut- In making the external incisions the knife is entered in from the middle line of the perinaeum, one inch in front of the face to anus, and is drawn backwards, on the left side, to midway the staff, ' . n , ' T between the tuberosity 01 the ischium and the anus. In this proceeding the skin and the superficial fascia, and the inferior haemorrhoidal vessels and nerves, lying across the ischio-rectal fossa, would be cut; and the transverse perinaeal muscle and artery, with, possibly, the superficial perinaeal vessels and nerves, may be then divided. In the subsequent attempt to reach the staff, when the knife is introduced into the anterior part of the wound, the lower part of the tri- angular ligament and the deep transverse urethral muscle and in will be divided; and when the knife is placed within the knifelng groove of the staff, the membranous part of the urethra, with staff into the circular muscular fibre about it, will be cut. Lastly, as the knife is pushed along the staff into the bladder, it in- cises in its progress the membranous part of the urethra, and part of the substance of the prostate gland with the large vessels around it. Parts to The several parts to be avoided in the stages of the ope- S areld" ration are the following: — In the first incisions in the ischio- rectum, recta| fossa? ^he rectum may be cut if the knife is turned inwards across the intestine, instead of being kept parallel with it, and if the gut is not kept out of the way with the pudic fore-finger of the left hand. The pudic vessels on the outer vessels, ^ ischio-rectal fossa may be wounded near the an- terior part of that hollow, where they approach the margin of the ramus of the pubes; but, posteriorly, they are very securely lodged inside the projection of the tuberosity of the ischium. Whilst making the deeper incisions to reach the bulb and staff, the bulb and its artery lie immediately in front of the tery, knife, and will be entered if the incisions are made too far forward; but the vessel must necessarily be cut, when it arises farther back than usual, and crosses the front of the ischio-rectal fossa in its course to the bulb of the urethra. p;acuia. In dividing the prostate gland the edge of the knife is to be uuct. turned outwards and downwards, in the direction of a linePERINEUM OF THE FEMALE. 455 from the urethra through the left lateral lobe of that body, so as not to injure the ejaculatory duct below. The whole cfaJ^ule of the prostate and its fibrous capsule are not to be cut Pf°^date through, otherwise the urine may be effused beneath the peritoneum. When the dissection of the perinaeum is completed, the flaps of skins are to be fastened together, after some preser- vative fluid has been used, and the limbs are to be put down. Section II. PERINEUM OF THE FEMALE. In the female the perinaeum differs from the like region in peH- the male more in the external form than the internal ana- oTfemaie tomy; but it has special parts distinguishing it, viz. the has spe* aperture of the vagina surrounded by its sphincter, and the parts, aperture of the vulva with the labia. Surface marking. — On the surface of the perineal space Along in the middle line, there are two apertures, viz. those of the aPer- anus and vulva, which are separated from one another by anus and an interval of about an inch; the former is situate relatively rather farther back than in the male, and the vulva is in the situation of the scrotum of the other sex. Bounding the vulva are the labia majora, one on each side. Within the Parts vulva, at the upper part, is the clitoris, with two small mem- vulva? branous folds, labia minora, extending downwards from it. Below the clitoris is the small aperture of the urethra; and still lower down is the vagina, whose opening is sometimes partly closed by a thin piece of membrane, the hymen. Deep boundaries. — The deep boundaries of the perinaeum Parts are alike in both sexes ; but in the female the outlet of the space are pelvis, corresponding to the perinaeum, is larger than that of both m the male. In this sex the perinaeum is not so deep. Dissection. — The steps of the dissection are much the Take same in both sexes, and the same description will serve, ischio- generally, for the perinaeum both of the male and the female, fossa. First, the dissection of the ischio-rectal fossa is to be made; and afterwards the muscles, vessels, and nerves of the pos- G G 4DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 456 terior half of the perineal space are to be examined. (See description of the Male Perineum, p. 439.) Then Next the skin is to be taken from the anterior half of the examine . ... anterior perineal space, as in the male; and the transverse incision peri- in front is to be made at the anterior part of the vulva. The attachments of the superficial fascia are then to be looked to, and the cutaneous vessels and nerves are to be traced beneath it (p. 443.). Superfi- Superficial fascia, — The description of this structure in fascia, the male will serve for the anatomy of it in the female with these modifications; that in this sex it is less perfect and of less extent, in consequence of the aperture of the vulva; and that it is continued forwards through the labia majora (the homologue of the scrotum) to the inguinal region. Dissec- Dissection. — The labia and the superficial fascia are to the mus- be removed, to follow the sphincter vaginae muscle around the opening of the vagina. The two other muscles that are exposed at the same time (transversalis perinaei and erector clitoridis) resemble those in the male, sphinc The sphincter vaginae is an orbicular muscle around ter vagina?, the orifice of the vagina. Posteriorly it is attached to the Origin, central point of the perinaeum, where it mixes with the sphincter ani and transversalis muscles; and its fibres are inser- directed forwards, some on each side of the vagina, to be tion. . . ' . . & ? inserted into the body of the clitoris. Erector The erector clitoridis resembles the erector of the penis ridis" in the male, though it is much smaller. The transversalis Trans- is similar to the same muscle in the male. The one descrip- ersais. suffice for these parts in both sexes (p. 447.). To ex- Dissection. — To see the triangular ligament of the urethra, angular" the erector and the crus clitoridis are to be detached from nfent. the bone, and the outer fibres of the sphincter vaginae are to be removed. Triangu. The triangular ligament transmits the urethra, but is not lar liga- . _ . .. . ment. quite so strongly marked as in the male; its extent is partly interrupted behind by the large aperture of the vagina (p. 455.). To see Dissection.— By cutting through the ligament in the ™inxz- same way as in the male, the deep muscles, with the pudic vessels and nerve and their branches, will be arrived at. Afterwards the trunks of those vessels, and that of the pudic nerve, are to be traced backwards.457 MUSCLES OF THE PERINEUM. The deep transverse muscle (depressor urethree, San- Deep torini) has the same origin externally as in the male, and it verse" meets its fellow at the middle line. Santorini described the muscle* muscle as passing over, instead of below the urethra; hence the name given to it by its discoverer. The constrictor muscle of the urethra resembles that con- of the male in its origin from the pubes, and its disposition urethrse. around the urethra. The description of the pudic artery (p. 452.) will serve Pudic for both sexes, except that the branch in the female, corre- sponding to the artery of the bulb in the male, is furnished to the vagina, The terminal branches are much smaller too in the female. The pudic nerve has the same peculiarity as the artery Pudic with respect to the branches to the vagina, and the smaller size of the terminal part of the nerve on the clitoris.458 CHAPTER VIII. DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Section I. WALL OF THE ABDOMEN. Direc- The dissector of the abdomen may be reminded that the tions for J the dis- perinaBum is included in the part of the body assigned to section. 1 J ° mm. And he is to keep in mind that he has not only to finish the dissection of that region, but to proceed as far as the end of Section 3. before the body is turned for the examination of the back. Portion Position. — The body will be sufficiently raised by the body. blocks placed beneath the thorax and buttocks, according to the directions given in the dissection of the limbs ; but the dissector should see that the chest is higher than the pelvis. After the abdomen has been inflated by an aperture through the umbilicus, let the markings on the surface be first attended to. Appear- Surface-marking. — On its anterior aspect, the abdomen on the IS for the most part convex, especially in fat bodies ; whilst thTab°-f on the sides, between the ribs and the crest of the ilium, domen. ^ surface is somewhat depressed. Along the middle line is a slight groove, corresponding to the linea alba, which presents about its centre the excavation of the umbilicus. Inferiorly the groove ceases a little above the pelvis, in the prominence of the pubes; and superiorly it subsides below the ensiform cartilage, in a hollow named the epigastric fossa. On each side of the middle line is the projection of the rectus muscle, and this is intersected in well-formed bodies by two or "three transverse depressions. Projec- Beneath the eminence of the pubes the student will be pubes able to recognise with his finger the symphysis pubis, and to trace outwards from it the crest of the os pubis which leads to the spinous process. If the finger is still carried outwards459 SURFACE-MARKING OF THE ABDOMEN. to the crest of the innominate bone, it will detect the firm and Pou- part's li- band of Poupart's ligament, and sometimes a few inguinal g&ment. glands. Kather above and to the outside of the pubes, the amo- & #< L minal opening of the external abdominal ring may be felt, and the rings, prominence of the spermatic cord descending through it to the testicle may be perceived. The internal abdominal ring is still to the outer side, though it cannot, usually, be recognised on the surface by the finger ; but its position may be ascertained by taking a point midway between the symphysis pubis and the crest of the innominate bone, and a little above Poupart's ligament. Attached to the front of the symphysis pubis in the male are the penis and the scrotum. Dissection. — The incisions requisite to raise the skin from Raise the sides and front of the belly are the following : — One cutskin- is to extend outwards over the side of the chest from the ensiform cartilage to about midway between the sternum and the spine, if this has not been already made by the dis- sector of the upper limb. A second incision is to be begun in the middle line midway between the umbilicus and the pubes, and to be carried outwards to the crest of the ilium, and along the crest till it ends opposite the first cut; lastly, the hinder extremities of those two incisions are to be con- nected along the side of the chest and the belly. The piece of skin thus marked out is to be raised towards the middle line, and the cutaneous vessels and nerves are to be sought in the fat at the undermentioned spots: — Along the side of the abdomen are the lateral cutaneous Position of cuta- nerves, five or six in number, which are in a line with the neons nerves. corresponding nerves of the thorax ; they give offsets back- wards, and are then directed forwards with small cutaneous arteries. On the crest of the ilium, near its front, is the branch from the last dorsal nerve; and still farther back on the crest, is the cutaneous branch of the ilio-hypogastric nerve. Near the middle line the small anterior cutaneous nerves will be found; these are uncertain in number and size, and are directed outwards in the integuments. The piece of skin that covers the lower part of the abdo- Take ... _ the skin men or the groin is next to be thrown downwards, on both from the sides, by means of an fticision along the middle line to the S ° n root of the penis. After its reflection, the cutaneous vesselsDISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 460 and nerves are to be dissected on the right side, and the superficial fascia on the left. Seek To make the necessary dissection on the right side, all and the fascia that is superficial to the vessels is to be raised in in right the same manner as the piece of the skin. The vessels that sroln* will then appear are the superficial pudic on the inside, the superficial epigastric in the centre, and there may be an off- set of the superficial circumflex iliac artery on the outside. Some inguinal glands are seen along the line of the reflected fascia. Two cutaneous nerves are to be sought; one, the ilio-inguinal, comes out through the abdominal ring, and descends to the thigh ; the other, ilio-hypogastric, appears in the superficial fascia above, and rather outside the abdo- minal ring. Separate In the dissection of the fascia, on the left side, two strata ficua" or layers are to be made out, one above and one beneath the [ntoa vessels. The layer that is superficial to the vessels is to be mieft raised by means of one transverse cut, not much above grom. Poupart's ligament, from the spine of the ilium* to the middle line, and another along the middle line to the pubes : the position of the subjacent vessels marks the depth of the layer; and when these are reached, a flap of the fascia like that of the skin, is to be thrown down towards the thigh. To define the thinner under stratum, cut it across in the same manner as the other layer, and then detach it with the vessels on it from the tendon of the external oblique muscle. This stratum, like the preceding, is to be traced around the cord to the scrotum ; and as the student follows it down- wards, he will find it connected with Poupart's ligament, and inseparably joined with the fascia lata close below that structure. super- The superficial fascia is a single layer over the greater fascia part of the abdomen, and lies between the skin and the spe- isdi- cial fascia investing the muscles ; but in the groin it is into two divided into a subcutaneous and a deeper layer by the vessels and the glands. The sub- a. The subcutaneous layer contains the fat, and therefore neous varies in appearance and thickness in different bodies; for it layer contains is soul times divisible into several strata, whilst at others it fat is somewhat membranous near the thigh. This layer is con- tinuous with the cutaneous fatty covering of the thigh, and461 SUPERFICIAL FASCIA IN THE GROIN. with that of the rest of the abdomen; and if it is traced to the limb, it is found to be separated from Poupart's ligament beneath, by the superficial vessels and glands. Internally except it is continued to the penis and the scrotum, where it loses penis -T r- • • • and SCr0" its adipose tissue; and after investing the testicle, the layer tum. is prolonged to the superficial fascia of the perinaeum. b. The deeper layer of the superficial fascia (aponeurosis Deeper of the fascia lata, Scarpa) is thinner and more membranous thin and than the other, and is closely united to the tendon of the branous; external oblique by fibrous bands, especially towards the linea alba. Like the subcutaneous part of the fascia, this layer is continued upwards on the abdomen, and inwards to the penis and the scrotum : in this last part it becomes very Special charac- thin, and, having passed through the scrotum, reaches the ters and . , . , , , ' • disposi- permaeum, where it has attachments to the subjacent parts tion in as before specified (p. 444.). Towards the top of the limb andperi- L v* ' A nasum. it extends only a very short distance, and ends a little below is joined Poupart's ligament, by joining the fascia lata across the front part's"" of the thigh as it passes over the ligament it is closely ^"t, ioined to that band by a thin membrane. and ends J J on fascia Should urine be effused from rupture of the urethra, itlata- will be directed through the scrotum, by reason of the attach- mrat?" ments of the superficial fascia in the perinaeum, and then mini" upwards along the cords to the abdomen. From the dispo- of ef!e sition of the deep layer across the thigh, it is evident that urine, the fluid cannot pass down the limb, whilst its progress over the front of the abdomen is uninterrupted. In the female the superficial fascia of the groin is separ- ^scia in able into two layers, and the disposition of each is nearly male- the same as that in the male; but the part that is continued to the scrotum in the one sex, enters the labium in the other, in its course to the perinaeum. In the female the round liga- ligament of the uterus is lost in the superficial fascia of the groin. Cutaneous Nerves. — The nerves in the superficial Cuta_ fascia are chiefly derived from the trunks of the lower five "enSs or six intercostal nerves ; for the lateral cutaneous branches along the side of the belly are offsets from those nerves, arede- whilst the anterior cutaneous branches along the front are £om the terminal parts of the same trunks. Two cutaneous off- sources.462 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. sets from the lumbar plexus, viz. the ilio-hypogastric and ilioinguinal, are present at the lower part of the abdomen. Lateral The lateral cutaneous nerves of the abdomen emerge be- neousof tween the digitations of the external oblique muscle, in a tercos- line with the same set of nerves on the thorax, and the tal' lowest are the most posterior. As soon as they appear on which the surface they divide, with the exception of the last, into divide . _ into an anterior and a posterior branch. poste- The posterior tranches are of small size, and are directed back- nor and wards to the integuments over the latissimus dorsi muscle, anterior The anterior branches run forwards in the superficial fascia branch. nearjy to edge of the rectus muscle, and supply the integuments on the side of the belly : they furnish offsets to the digitations of the external oblique muscle. Last^ The lateral cutaneous branch of the last dorsal nerve is nerve, larger than the rest, and does not divide like the others. After piercing the fibres of the external oblique muscle, it is directed over the crest of the ilium to the surface of the gluteal region. Anterior The anterior cutaneous nerves of the abdomen reach the neous surface by piercing the sheath of the rectus : in the integu- ofinter- ments they turn outwards towards the lateral cutaneous costal. nerves> The number, and the place of exit of these small nerves from the abdominal wall, are very uncertain, iiio-hy- The ilio-hypogastric nerve is distributed on the surface by of?um"c two pieces : one lies over the crest of the ilium (iliac branch), pfexus. the other ramifies on the lower part of the abdomen (hypo- gastric branch). iliac The iliac branch is close to the crest of the innominate bone be- branch. ^e jagt dorsai nerve, and enters the integument of the gluteal region: its size and its position on the bone are dependant upon the development and the situation of the offset of the last dorsal nerve. Hypo- The hypogastric branch pierces the aponeurosis of the external branch, oblique muscle above the external abdominal ring, and is distri- buted, as the name expresses, to the integument of the lower region of the abdominal parietes. iiio-in- The ilio-inguinal nerve becomes cutaneous through the nerve external abdominal ring, and having perforated the deeper plexus, layer of the superficial fascia, descends to the scrotum and the upper part of the thigh, vessels Cutaneous Vessels. — Some cutaneous vessels are found source^0 with both sets of nerves on the abdomen: with the lateralCUTANEOUS VESSELS. 463 cutaneous nerves are branches from the intercostal arteries, and with the anterior cutaneous are offsets from the internal mammary and epigastric vessels. In the groin, are three small superficial branches of the femoral artery, viz. pudic, epigastric, and circumflex iliac: these last are dissected on the right side. The lateral cutaneous arteries have the same anatomy as Both the nerves they accompany. They are directed towards the lateraI front of the abdomen, and end about the outer edge of the rectus muscle. The anterior cutaneous vessels are irregular and an- in number and in position, like the nerves. After piercing cuta- the sheath of the rectus, they run outwards with the nerves neous* towards the other set of branches. Branches of the femoral artery. — These three cutaneous From offsets turn upwards from the thigh, between the layers of artl?yal the superficial fascia, and ramify in the integuments of the branch- genital organs, and those of the lower part of the abdomen.es' The greater portion of these vessels appears in the dissection of the thigh. The external pudic branch (superficial) crosses the spermatic cord. External to which it gives offsets, and ends in the integuments of the under pudlc- part of the penis. The superficial epigastric branch ascends over Poupart's ligament, Super- near the centre, and is distributed in the superficial fascia as high epigis- as the umbilicus. Its size varies very much. tnc- The circumflex iliac branch lies usually below the level of the crest Circum- of the ilium, and sends only a few offsets upwards to the abdomen. flex lhdC' Small veins accompany the arteries, and join the internal veins, saphenous vein in the thigh. The glands of the groin are three or four in number, and inguinal lie over the line of Poupart's ligament. They are placed be- tween the two layers of the superficial fascia, and receive the lymphatics from the abdomen, from the upper and outer part of the thigh, and from the superficial parts of the genital organs. Their efferent ducts pass downwards to the saphe- Ducts nous opening in the thigh to enter the abdomen. thigh. Dissection. — After the examination of the superficial Dissec- fascia with its vessels and nerves on the abdomen, the cover- student may make the dissection of the cutaneous coverings penis! of the penis and scrotum. The skin may be divided along the dorsum of the penis, and thrown to each side; and theDISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 464 prepuce skin of the scrotum is then to be reflected by means of a vertical incision on the left side. Tegu- Cutaneous coverings of the penis and scrotum.—The penis cover-ry is attached to the front of the pubes by a suspensory liga- penisf ment, and is provided with a tegumentary covering, and with vessels and nerves, is thin, On the penis the tegumentary covering is continuous with without that of the abdomen, but the superficial fascia loses the fat that it possesses in most other parts of the body, and acquires special characters.—Around the end of the penis it forms the loose sheath of the prepuce in the following way: — when the skin has reached the extremity, it is reflected backwards forms as far as to the base of the glans, constituting thus the double layer of the prepuce; it is afterwards continued over the glans, and joins the mucous membrane of the urethra at the orifice on the surface. At the under part of the glans, and behind the aperture of the urethra, the integument forms a and fra>- small triangular fold, frcenum preputii. Where the integu- num' ment covers the glans it is very thin, and in some cases sebace- assumes the character of a mucous membrane; and behind glands, the glans are some sebaceous follicles — glandulce odoriferce. and in In the scrotum. — The superficial facia becomes thin, and scrotum. ^ ^ reddish colour. Jf it is cut through, the student will perceive that the prolongation sent around the cord on one side, does not communicate with that on the other side ; and that the two pouches come in contact in the middle line, and form the septum scroti. Muscu- The superficial fascia in the scrotum and penis, and in the lure of front of the perinaeum contains muscular fibre cells, to which fascia. ^e corrugation of the skin is owing. This contractile .structure is named the tunica dartos. Dissec- Dissection.—By removing the cellular membrane from vessels the root of the penis and the front of the symphysis pubis, nerves, the suspensory ligament will be defined. And the dorsal arteries, nerves, and vein of the penis, which are seen in the • preceding step, are to be followed forwards in the superficial fascia. Suspen- The suspensory ligament of the penis is a rather deep gament band of fibrous tissue, of a triangular form, which is attached by its apex to the front of the symphysis pubis near the of penis. mints!" lower part. Widening as it descends, the ligament divides465 DORSAL VESSELS OF THE PENIS. into two pieces, which are fixed to the upper surface of the body of the penis, and are prolonged on it for some distance. In the interval between the layers are the dorsal vessels and Con- tains nerves of the penis. Indels Dorsal vessels and nerves. — The arteries and nerves on nerves, the dorsum of the penis, are the terminal parts of the pudic veS°f trunks of each side. The vein corresponding to the arteries nerves, enters the front of the pelvis through the triangular perineal ligament. The dorsal artery, one on each side, appears between the layers Dorsal of the suspensory ligament, and extends forwards to the glans, penis, where it ends in many branches for that structure : in this course £fbp^ch the artery supplies the integuments and body of the penis. It may Peculia_ be derived from the accessory pudic (p. 453.). rities- The dorsal vein is a single trunk, and commences by numerous Dorsal branches from the prepuce and the glans penis. The course of the ends in vein is backwards by the side of the artery, between the layers of pfexIS?0 the suspensory ligament, and then through the triangular ligament of the urethra, to join the prostatic plexus of veins. In its extent along the penis the vein receives branches from the erectile struc- tures of that body. Each dorsal nerve takes the same course as the artery to the Dorsal glans penis, and ends like it in numerous branches to that part, pudic. It furnishes a large branch to the corpus cavernosum penis, and other offsets to the integuments of the dorsum, the sides, and the prepuce of the penis. In the female these vessels are much smaller than in the Vessels male, and they occupy the upper surface of the clitoris. tons. Dissection. — The surface of the external muscle of the To ex- abdominal wall is next to be freed from fascia on both sides exter- of the body. It is not advisable to begin cleaning this lique " muscle in front, because there it has only a thin aponeurosis, and is readily removed with the fat. Behind, however, the muscle is thick and fleshy, and cannot well be injured; whilst beginning the dissection at the posterior part, the student is to carry the knife obliquely upwards and down- wards in the direction of the fibres. The thin aponeu- rosis before referred to is in front of a line extended upwards from the anterior part of the crest of the ilium; and as the dissector approaches this spot, he must be more careful not to injure it, especially at the upper part, where it lies on the margin of the ribs.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 466 To de- On the right side, the margin of the external abdominal dominai ring may be defined to show the cord passing through it; nng* and on the left side, a thin fascia (intercolumnar), that is connected with the margin of that opening, is to be pre- served. Lastly, the dissector should make evident the free margin of the external oblique muscle between the last rib and the crest of the ilium. On side Muscles of the abdominal wall,—On the side of the abdo- three . .. flat mus- men are three large flat muscles, which are named from cles ° 7 their position to one another, and from the direction of their fibres. The most superficial muscle is the external oblique, the next one the internal oblique, and the last is the trans- and their versalis. Along the middle line the muscles have a vertical roses in- direction ; in front are the rectus and pyramidalis, and be- three ^ hind the quadratus lumborum ; these are incased by sheaths ones. derived from the aponeuroses of the lateral muscles. External The external oblique muscle is fleshy on the side, and muscle is aponeurotic on the fore part of the abdomen. It arises by Origin Aesfty points or digitations from the eight lower ribs; the ribT ^ve hignest pieces, attached to the outer surface and the borders of the ribs, alternate with similar parts of the serratus magnus ; and the three lowest, connected with the margins, interdigitate with the processes of origin of the latissimus dorsi muscle. From the attachment to the ribs, the fibres are directed over the side of the abdomen in the following manner:—the lower fibres descend almost verti- inser- cally to be inserted into the anterior half of the crest of the pXisnt° ilium, at the outer margin; whilst the upper and middle and^imea j^gg are continued forwards, the one set horizontally, the other obliquely, to the aponeurosis on the front of the belly. Aponeu- The aponeurosis of the muscle occupies the anterior part themus- of the abdomen, in front of a line from the eighth rib to the covers crest of the ilium, and is rather narrower about the centre, thebeiiy than either above or below. Along the middle line of the body this expansion ends in the linea alba, — the common Disposi- point of union of the aponeuroses of opposite sides. Above, aiSie it is thin, and is continued on the rectus muscle to the pec- k>w.be" toralis major and the ribs. Below, the fibres of the aponeu- rosis are stronger and more separate than above, and are directed obliquely downwards and inwards to the pelvis: some of them are fixed to the front of the pubes; whilst the467 EXTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. H H 2 rest are collected into a firm band between the pubes and the crest of the ilium, which is named Poupart's ligament. Appearing through the aponeurosis, external to the linea £ines 011 alba, is a white line, the linea semilunaris, corresponding to the outer edge of the rectus muscle; and crossing between the two are three or four whitish marks, the linear trans- versa^. Numerous small apertures in the tendon give exit Aper- if.! tures in to cutaneous vessels and nerves; and near the pubes is the it. large opening of the external abdominal ring, which gives ^domi- passage to the cord in the male, or the round ligament in the female. Connections. —The muscle is subcutaneous. Its posterior £°™ec- border is usually free between the last rib and the crest of the ilium, and is contiguous to the edge of the latissimus dorsi, so that oftentimes a part of the internal oblique may be seen between them; but this border may be concealed by the latissimus dorsi muscle. Parts of the aponeurosis—Besides the general arrange- °bJ®tts ment of the aponeurosis over the front of the abdomen, the aponeu- t i rosis. student is to examine more minutely the linea alba in the middle line; the external abdominal ring with the fascia prolonged from its margin ; and the rounded border named Poupart's ligament. Linea alba. — This is the central line of union of the in the aponeuroses of opposite sides on the front of the abdomen, aiba the It extends from the xiphoid cartilage to the pubes, and ros°"se?Ure serves as a ligament between those parts. Its breadth is wider above than below, and it is perforated here and there by small apertures, that allow masses of fat to protrude in some bodies. A little below the centre is the umbilicus; into this projects now beyond the surface, though before the skin umbm- was removed there was a hollow corresponding to it: through it a piece of intestine may protrude from the abdomen. External abdominal ring. — This opening may be said to External be an interval between the fibres of the aponeurosis as they nai ring, diverge, near the pubes, to their attachment to two points of bone, at a little distance from one another. It is somewhat Fo^m. and si- triangular in form, with the base at the crest of the os pubis, tuation. and the apex pointing upwards and outwards. The long size, measurement of the aperture is about an inch, and the trans- verse about half an inch. Its margins are named pillars,468 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. . inner and differ in strength: — the inner one is thin and straight, pillar, and is attached below, by means of the piece of the aponeu- rosis that forms it, into the front of the symphysis pubis, where it crosses over the corresponding piece of the opposite Outer side< The outer margin is the strongest, and is not straight like the inner, but is bent around the spermatic cord, so as to form a kind of groove for it. This margin is continuous with Poupart's ligament, and is attached below to the spine a fascia or tuberosity of the os pubis. A thin membrane (inter- prolong- m m v edjrom columnar or spermatic fascia) obscures the sides of the open- opening, ing, and is derived from some intermarginal or intercolumnar- The fibres on the surface of the aponeurosis. The ring gives cord in ' . 1 . . male, passage m the male to the spermatic cord, and in the female to the round ligament; in each case the transmitted part lies on the outer or lower margin or pillar as it passes through, and obtains a covering from the intercolumnar n?a1 pro- fibres. Through the same aperture the inguinal hernia paTs1011 protrudes from the wall of the abdomen, interSh" ^erco^umnar fibres form a layer over the aponeu- coium- rosis at the lower part of the abdomen, and bind together its fibres, parallel fibres, so as to construct a resisting membrane, menthl- Inferiorly a bundle of the fibres is connected with the outer fenoriy. third of Poupart's ligament, and is extended back to the crest They 0f the ilium. At the external abdominal ring they stretch upper from side to side (hence the origin of their name), and, part of v D ' rins> becoming stronger and aggregated together, close the upper ^d pro- part of that opening. Moreover they are prolonged on the thin in- Cord from the margin of the ring, and give rise to the mem- terco- . lumnar brane named intercolumnar fascia. On the left side, where fascia. .... the fascia is entire, this thin covering will be manifest on the surface of the cord, or on the round ligament. To see Dissection. — To see the attachments and connections of insertion part's"!- P°uPart's ligament, it will be necessary to reflect, on both gament. sjdes 0f the body, the lower part of the aponeurosis towards the thigh. For this purpose an incision is to be carried through the aponeurosis from the crest of the ilium nearly Throw to the linea alba. The aponeurosis is to be detached from piece of the subjacent parts with the handle of the scalpel; and when oblique, it cannot be separated farther from the tendons beneath, near the middle line, it is to be cut in the direction of a vertical line to the symphysis pubis. After the triangularPOUPART S LIGAMENT. 469 H H 3 piece of the aponeurosis has been thrown towards the thigh, the cord is to be dislodged from the surface of the ligament, to see the insertion of this band into the os pubis, and to lay bare the fibres that ascend therefrom to the linea alba, and are named triangular ligament. Pouparfs ligament is the lower border of the aponeurosis, p0u- which intervenes between the crest of the ilium and the gament." pubes. Externally it is round and cord-like, and is attached ^JJa- to the anterior superior spine of the ilium; but internally it outer widens as it approaches the pubes, and is inserted into the and 1 A 17 inner fpine of the os pubis and the pectineal line for about three attach- m x L ments: quarters of an inch, so as to form a triangular looking piece, with its base directed outwards, which is named Gimbernafs last ligament. (See the Dissection of the Thigh.) The line of Gimber- -rf , . . _ , { . nat's li- Jroupart s ligament is not straight between its outer and gament. inner attachment, but is curved downwards to the thigh, itsdirec- and retains this position as long as the fascia lata remains uncut. Its outer half is oblique, and is firmly united with and parts the subjacent iliac fascia; along the line of union of the two tact with the other lateral muscles of the abdominal wall are attached. Its inner half is placed over the vessels passing from the abdomen to the thigh, and beneath the spermatic cord. Triangular ligament.—From the insertion of Poupart's ligament Tnan- into the pectineal line, some fibres are directed upwards and in- lament." wards to the linea alba, where they become blended with the other tendons. As the fibres ascend, they diverge and form a thin band, to which the name triangular ligament has been applied. Dissection.— The remnant of the external oblique is now Dissec- tion to to be taken away, on both sides of the body, to see the parts ?xPos<a that are covered by it. The muscle may be detached by oblique, carrying the scalpel through the digitations on the ribs back to the free border, and then through the attachment to the crista ilii. The muscle may be thrown forwards as far as it is practicable, after the nerves that cross the crest of the ilium are dissected out; but in raising it care must be taken not to detach the rectus muscle from the ribs, nor to cut through the tendon of the internal oblique near the same part. By the removal of the cellular membrane the underlying internal oblique muscle, with some nerves on its surface below, will be cleaned: at the lower border of the internal oblique the cremaster muscle is to be dissected out on the cord.470 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Parts co- Parts covered by external oblique.—Beneath the external, vered by . . . external is the internal oblique muscle, with the ribs and the inter- ° ique* costal muscles. At the lower part of the abdomen the outer muscle conceals the cord, and the branches of nerves from the lumbar plexus contained in the abdominal wall. The aponeurosis of the external oblique assists to form the sheath of the rectus. internal The internal oblique muscle, is fleshy below and apo- muscie. neurotic above, just the reverse of the preceding muscle ; and its fibres (except the lowest) ascend across the direction Origin of those of the external oblique. The muscle arises from trom pelvis, the outer half of Poupart's ligament, from the anterior two thirds of the crest of the ilium, and from the tendon of the transversalis muscle (fascia lumborum) in the interval be- inser- tween the crest of that bone and the last rib. The fibres the ribs diverge on the abdomen to their destination : — The posterior alba, fibres ascend to be inserted into the cartilages of the three lower ribs, and join the internal intercostal muscles of the except two lowest spaces. The anterior or lower fibres arch down- fibres. wards and inwards (from Poupart's ligament) over the sper- matic cord, and end in the aponeurosis, near the pubes. And the intervening fibres pass obliquely to the aponeurosis. Aponeu- The aponeurosis of the muscle covers the anterior part of them°us- the abdomen from the pelvis to the chest, and blends with !*e' its fellow along the middle line. Over the greater part of Divides ° . . to incase the front of the abdomen the aponeurosis incases the rectus rectus. . .,. muscle; but midway between the umbilicus and the pubes Attach- it is undivided, and lies [in front of that muscle. Supe- chest, riorly it is attached to the thorax after the following man- ner : the stratum that is superficial to the rectus is fixed to the ninth rib, and blends with the aponeurosis of the external oblique; and the stratum beneath the muscle joins, the cartilages of the eighth and seventh ribs and the ensiform and in- cartilage. Inferiorly its fibres become more distinct and ftnoriy. gepara^ ag jn ^he external oblique, and are inserted into the front of the os pubis, and into the pectineal line for half an inch, behind the attachment of Poupart's ligament, parts Connections. — The internal is covered by the external tact°with oblique muscle. It is attached on all sides, except between oblique. p0Upart's ligament and the os pubis, where it arches over the cord, and has the cremaster muscle contiguous to it. TheINTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. 471 H H 4 parts that are covered by the internal oblique cannot be seen till the muscle is reflected. The CREMASTER MUSCLE is a fasciculus of fibres, that lies Cremas- along the lower border of the internal oblique muscle, and is cie. so named from suspending the testicle. Superiorly the muscle has attachments at the inner and outer sides similar to those of the internal oblique. Externally it is fleshy, and is attached to Poupart's ligament below the internal oblique, Attach- with which some of the fibres are connected, and it may also external ' J fleshy, join the transversalis; but internally it is small and pointed, internal and is fixed, chiefly by tendon, to the front of the os pubis ^us] and the sheath of the rectus. Between those two points the forms fibres descend on the front and sides of the cord, forming over the loops with the convexity downwards; and the lowest loops are connected with the tunica vaginalis testis. The muscu- giving ° t rise to lar fibres are united by cellular membrane so as to give rise ^emas- to a covering on the front of the cord, which is named fascia fascia. cremasterica. Occasionally the fibres may be behind as well as on the sides and front of the cord. Dissection. — On the left side of the body the student is in left not to make any further dissection of the abdominal wall; replace parts. but the parts that have been reflected in the groin should be carefully replaced, until the examination of those parts in connection with hernia are returned to. On the right side the dissection is to be carried deeper by on right the reflection of the internal oblique and the cremaster. abdomen The last muscle may be reflected from the cord by means of cremas- a longitudinal incision. To raise the internal oblique, it internal will be necessary to cut it through near the ribs, and near 0 lque' the crest of the ilium, and then to connect those incisions behind: its depth will be indicated by a cellular layer be- tween it and the transversalis. In raising the muscle towards the edge of the rectus, the student must separate with great care the lower fibres from those of the trans- versalis, with which they are often conjoined; and must dis- sect out the trunks of the intercostal nerves and arteries, the last dorsal nerve, and the two branches of the lumbar plexus (ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal) near the front of the crest of the ilium : the intercostal offsets that enter the • muscle must be cut. Parts covered by the oblique. — The internal oblique con- PartsDISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 472 covered ceals the transversalis muscle, and the vessels and nerves ni/ob-1^ between the two. Near Poupart's ligament it lies on the spermatic cord and the fascia transversalis: the rectus muscle is concealed by the aponeurosis, and partly incased by it. Trans- The transversalis muscle forms the third stratum in the muscle, wall of the abdomen; like the former muscle, it is attached on all sides except where the spermatic cord lies, and takes origin from the pelvis, the chest, and the lumbar vertebras: Origin it has both an anterior and a posterior aponeurosis. At the chest, pelvis it arises from the outer third of Poupart's ligament, and ' and from the two anterior thirds of the crest of the ilium. At the chest it takes origin from the six lower ribs, viz. by tendon from the two lowest, and by fleshy processes from the under surface of the cartilages of the four next above. And it is connected with the lumbar vertebrae between the chest and the pelvis, by means of the posterior aponeurosis of the Fibres fascia lumborum. Most of the fibres are directed trans- aponeu- versely to the aponeurosis in front: but the lower arch Lowest downwards above the spot at which the cord leaves the dcwn to abdomen, and join the aponeurosis internal to that aperture, pubes. jjg aponeurosis is widest inferiorly, as in the most external aponeu- muscle. It is continued to the linea alba beneath the rectus, passes except midway between the umbilicus and the pubes, where rectuSth it passes in front of that muscle to reach the middle line, aib^ex- Its attachment below to the os pubis is nearly the same as fenoriy" tnat of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique, for it is fixed to the front of the pubes, and to the pectineal line for about an inch, but beneath the insertion of the oblique muscle. Fibres At the insertion into the pubes, some of the fibres are spent versalis On the transversalis fascia, and are connected with the deep fascia. . arch. At pel- Conjoined tendon. — The aponeuroses of the oblique and that ofns transversalis muscles are united more or less near their at- oblique tachment to the bone, and thus give origin to the conjoined joined" tendon; but it must be remarked that the tendon of the tendon, ^j^^ muscie seldom extends more than half an inch along the pectineal line, whilst that of the transversalis reaches an inch along the bony ridge, and forms the greater part of that structure. Poste- The posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis, or the473 TRANSVERSALIS AND RECTUS MUSCLES. fascia lumborum, is described in the dissection of the back rior apo- J " . neurosis. (p. 403.). Connections of the muscle.—Superficial to the transversa- Connec- ■/ L tions of lis are the two muscles before examined; and beneath it is trans- versalis the thin fascia transversalis, which separates it from the muscle, peritoneum. Its fleshy attachments to the ribs digitate with like processes of the diaphragm. The lower border is fleshy in the outer, but tendinous in the inner half, and is arched over the internal abdominal ring. Occasionally the muscle arises from Poupart's ligament as low down as the internal oblique, with which, and with the cremaster, it is then inse- parably united. Dissection. — To remove the aponeurosis from the rectus To ex- muscle, make a longitudinal incision through the tendinous tus and°" sheath, and turn it to each side. A small muscle, the pyra- daSs?" midalis, will be exposed at the same time near the pubes. The dissector should take care of the nerves entering the outer border of the rectus. The rectus muscle extends along the front of the abdo- Rectus men from the pelvis to the chest. The muscle is narrowest inferiorly, and is attached to the pubes by two tendinous Attach- processes ;—one, internal to the other and the smallest, arises pubes. from the front of the symphysis, where it joins that of the opposite side; and the external process is attached to the crest of the pubes. Becoming wider towards the thorax, the insertion muscle is inserted by three large fleshy processes into the cartilages of the three last true ribs ; and the highest slip, which is also external, is attached to both the bone and the cartilage of its rib. The muscle is contained in an aponeu- rotic sheath, except above and below ; and its fibres are Has cross interrupted at intervals by irregular tendinous lines, the inscriptiones tendinece. Sheath of the rectus. — The aponeurotic casing of the rec- its tus muscle is derived from the splitting of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique ; for one of the pieces passes before, how the other under the muscle, and the two unite at the inner border. Inseparably united with the stratum in front of the muscle is the aponeurosis of the external oblique ; and joined in a similar manner with that behind, is the aponeurosis of the transversalis. The sheath is deficient behind, both above its ex- and below. Above, the muscle rests on the ribs, withouttent*DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 474 the hinder stratum of the sheath, for this is fixed to the mar- gin of the thorax. Below, midway between the umbilicus and the pubes, the internal oblique fails to incase the rec- tus, and passes altogether in front of it with the other apo- i?efi- neuroses ; the spot where the sheath ceases inferiorly will be cient in- ferioriy. seen to be marked by a white, well-defined margin (the fold of Douglas) when the outer edge of the muscle is raised. Where the sheath is deficient, the rectus is in contact with the fascia transversalis. Lmeaj The Linece transversa are the tendinous intersections that trans. versa? cross the surface of the rectus. There are usually three of are three these lines at the following spots : one is opposite the umbi- or more. m A 1 situa- licus, another at the ensiform cartilage, and the third mid- tlon* way between the other two. If there is a greater number, the additional one will be below the umbilicus. These markings seldom extend the whole breadth or depth of the muscular fibres, more particularly above and below. Linea Linea semilunaris. — This line which was before alluded semi- lunaris to with the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, is at edge corresponds to the outer edge of the rectus, and reaches tus. from the eighth rib to the outer part of the crest of the pubes : it marks the line of the division of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique muscle. Pyrami- The pyramid alis muscle is triangular in form, and is muscle, placed in front of the rectus near the pelvis. The muscle Attach- arises by its base from the front of the os pubis, and is pubesto inserted by its apex into the linea alba, about midway be- and^imea tween ^e umbilicus and the pubes. This small muscle is often absent. Nerves Nerves.—Between the internal oblique and transversalis of ab- muscles, are the intercostal nerves ; and near the pelvis, are ' ; the two branches of the lumbar plexus. Some arteries ac- company the intercostal nerves, but they will be referred to with the vessels of the abdominal wall (p. 480.), inter- a. The six lower intercostal nerves (p. 389.) enter the costal p . i ner es wall 0f the abdomen at the anterior part of the intercostal are be- spaces. Placed between the two deepest lateral muscles, the oblique nerves are directed forwards to the edge of the rectus, and trans- then through this muscle to become cutaneous along the versahs. front Q£ ^Q abdomen. About midway between the spine and the linea alba, the nerves furnish cutaneous branches toNERVES OF THE ABDOMINAL WALL. 475 the side of the abdomen (lateral cutaneous, p. 462.) ; and offsets, whilst between the abdominal muscles they supply muscular branches, as well as offsets of communication one with ano- ther. A greater part of the lower than of the upper nerves is visible, because of the shortness of the inferior intercostal spaces. The last dorsal nerve is placed below the twelfth rib, and Last therefore not in an intercostal space, but otherwise it has nerve, connections and distribution like those of the preceding. As it extends forwards to the rectus it sometimes communicates with the ilio-hypogastric nerve : its lateral cutaneous branch perforates the two oblique muscles. b. Two branches of the lumbar plexus, viz. ilio-hypogas- Branch- trie and ilio-inguinal, are contained for a certain distance lumbar between the muscles of the wall of the abdomen, as they plexus' course forwards to the surface of the body. The ilio-hypogastric nerve perforates the back of the iuo-hy- transversalis muscle, near the crest of the ilium, and gives trie lies off the iliac or lateral cutaneous branch. The nerve then crest of turns forward near the crest of the ilium, and is connected with its companion (ilio-inguinal), near the front of that bone. Perforating then the fleshy part of the internal Fur- oblique, and the aponeurosis of the external oblique near the cuta- linea alba, the nerve becomes cutaneous as before seen branch, (p. 462.). The iliac branch pierces both oblique muscles, close to the crest of the ilium, to reach the gluteal region. The ilio-inguinal nerve perforates the transversalis, near iiio-m- the front of the crest of the ilium, where it is connected with issues the preceding. The nerve afterwards pierces the internal ring, oblique, to which it supplies branches, and coursing over that muscle, reaches the surface of the thigh through the external abdominal ring (p. 462.). This nerve may be so small as to end by joining the ilio-hypo- May be gastric branch. In such case the ilio-hypogastric furnishes an Imln. offset that takes the usual place of, and corresponds in distribution to the ilio-inguinal nerve. Dissection.—For the purpose of seeing the transversalis ^sec- fascia, it will be necessary to raise, on the right side, the t™™^ lower part of the muscle of the same name by two incisions ; fascia- — one of these is to be carried through the fibres that are attached to Poupart's ligament ; the other, across the muscleDISSECTION OE THE ABDOMEN. 476 from the crest of the ilium to the margin of the rectus. With a little care the muscle may be easily separated from the thin fascia beneath. Fascia The fascia transversalis is a thin fibrous layer between trans- «' J versaiis the transversalis muscle and the peritoneum, which has been is best so named by Sir A. Cooper. In the groin or inguinal region in the where it is unsupported by muscles, the fascia is consider- 8roln* ably stronger than elsewhere, and is joined by fibres of the Supe- aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle; but above that decneas- region it gradually decreases in strength, until at the thorax strength, it becomes an unimportant cellular structure. In the part ^r of the fascia now laid bare is an opening — the internal ab- Sgament Nominal r*ng? which gives passage to the spermatic cord, or Is lhe , the round ligament, according to the sex. On the inner side internal ° ? ° nafring °^ °Pening tne fascia is thinner than on the outer side, Is fixed and is fixed internally into the os pubis and the pectineal pelvis, line of that bone, behind the conjoined tendon with which it is partly is united. When traced down to Poupart's ligament, this joined to x o Pou- membrane is found to be connected to the posterior margin part's h. . gament, 0f that band along the outer half; but it passes down to the \y noLrt* thigh in front of the blood vessels, along the inner half, being but slightly connected with the ligament, and forms the an- terior part of a loose sheath (crural) around the vessels, situation Abdominal ring. — The opening of the internal abdominal minai " ring is situate midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and half an inch above Poupart's ligament. From its margin a thin tubular pro- longation of the fascia is continued around the cord. Dissec- Dissection. — The prolongation of the fascia transversalis trace'0 on the cord may be traced by cutting the fascia horizontally on cord, above the opening of the ring, and then longitudinally over the cord. With the handle of the scalpel the thin membrane may be reflected to each side from the subperitoneal fat. After the subperitoneal fat has been seen, let it be removed to trace the remains of the tube of peritoneum along the cord. subperi. The subperitoneal fat forms a layer between the fascia toneal 7 . fat in the transversalis and the peritoneum. Its depth varies much in groin. different bodies, but the stratum is thicker at the lower part of the abdomen than elsewhere. A prolongation is sent from it along the cord. This structure will be more spe-477 THE SPERMATIC CORD. cially examined in the dissection of the wall of the abdomen from the inside. The peritoneum, or the serous sac of the abdominal cavity, Perito- projects slightly forwards opposite the abdominal ring, the groin Connected with it, at that spot, is a fibrous process, the longed remains of a prolongation from it to the testis in the fetus, cord; which extends a certain distance along the front of the cord; but there is great variety in its condition. In one body the process can be followed only a very short distance, whilst in piece^ another it may be traced as a fine band to the tunica vagi- imper- . . . vious, nalis of the testis. In other instances it may be sacculated at or saccu- intervals, or, in rarer cases, it may form only one large bag lated' in front in the cord : these conditions can be explained by an arrest in the changes usually taking place in the piece of the peritoneum that is prolonged to the testis, for should this be closed only opposite the abdominal ring, one large pouch or sac would be left in front of the cord, and should it be obliterated here and there, the sacculated state would result. Lastly, as a rare condition, the tube of peritoneum or open. may be found unobliterated, so that a coil of intestine could descend in it from the abdomen. In the female the tube of peritoneum sometimes remains in fe- pervious for a short distance in front of the round ligament; partly the unobliterated passage is named the canal of Nuck. The spermatic cord extends from the internal abdominal sperma- tic cord, ring to the testis, and consists of the vessels and the efferent duct of that gland, united together by coverings from the structures by or through which they pass. In the wall of j?ob-. J ° £ lique in the abdomen the cord lies obliquely, because its aperture of entrance amongst, is not opposite its aperture of exit from the muscles ; but escaped from the abdomen, it descends almost vertically to its destination. As it lies in the pas- and ver- J . . . tical De- sage, which has been named the inguinal canal, it is placed at yond. first (beginning externally) beneath the internal oblique, Sons e°" and rests against the fascia transversalis; but beyond the parts lower border of the oblique muscle it rests on the upper around* surface of Poupart's ligament, and has the aponeurosis of the external oblique between it and the surface of the body, and the conjoined tendon behind it. Its different coverings Cover- are derived from the wall of the abdomen, there being a prolongation from each stratum, except from the transver-478 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. salis muscle. Thus, in proceeding from within outwards, the student will find the following layers around the consti- tuents of the cord: — first the sub-peritoneal fat, then the tube of the fascia transversalis, next the cremaster muscle— continuous with the internal oblique, afterwards the inter- columnar fascia from the external oblique muscle, and lastly the superficial fascia and the skin, in fe- The round ligament, or the suspensory cord of the uterus, round u- occupies the inguinal canal in the female, and ends in the pment jn^egumen^g 0f the groin. Its coverings are similar to those cord! °f of the spermatic cord, except it wants, usually, the cremaster. Dissec- Dissection. — The constituents of the cord will be dis- tlon' played by turning aside the different surrounding layers, and removing the cellular membrane. The dissector should trace branches of the genito-crural nerve and epigastric artery into the cremasteric covering, comti- Vessels and nerves of the cord. — In the cord are collected thTcord. together the spermatic artery and veins that convey the blood to, and take it away from the testis; nerves and lym- phatics of the testicle; and the vas deferens or the efferent duct. sperma- The spermatic artery is a branch of the aorta. It enters tery, the cord through the internal abdominal ring, and descends to the testis, in which it ends : it distributes branches to the vas deferens and the epididymis. In the female, a branch from the ovarian artery (spermatic ?) enters the round liga- veins, ment. The spermatic veins leave the posterior part of the testicle, and receive branches from the epididymis: ascend- ing in the cord, in front of the vas deferens, they divide and anastomose, and form the spermatic plexus. Artery The cremasteric covering of the cord has a separate artery nerve of and nerve. The artery is derived from the cremasteric veringp branch of the epigastric (p. 481.), and is distributed to the cord.6 coverings of the cord. The genital branch of the genito- crural nerve enters the cord by the internal abdominal ring, and ends in the cremaster muscle. Other filaments to the coverings of the cord come from the ilio-inguinal nerve. Nerves. The nerves of the testicle are derived from the spermatic plexus of the sympathetic in the abdomen; they accompany Lymph- the spermatic artery. The lymphatics begin in the testis, atics.VESSELS OF THE ABDOMINAL WALL. 479 aTcl ascend along the cord, through the internal abdominal ring, to join the lumbar glands. The vas deferens reaches from the testicle to the urethra, Vas J t rens. and is placed behind the other constituents of the cord; it Situa- will be easily recognised by its resemblance in feel to a piece tl0U of whipcord, when it is taken between the finger and the thumb. As it enters the abdomen through the opening in and 0 i o course. the fascia transversalis (internal ring), it lies on the inner side of the vessels of the testicle ; and as it begins its descent to the pelvis, it winds behind the epigastric artery. Dissection.—A fibrous band below Poupart's ligament, Dissec- A ° 7 tion of which has been named the deep crural arch, will be found by deep cutting through the cord near the external ring, and raising it towards the inner abdominal ring : this thin band passes inwards to the os pubis, and is to be defined with care. The remaining vessels of the abdominal wall, viz., the epi- ^ of gastric and circumflex iliac, and the ending of the internal vessels, mammary artery, are next to be dissected: the epigastric and mammary arteries will be seen, on turning up the outer edge of the rectus, one above and the other below; and the epigastric with its earliest branches may be further traced, by removing the fascia transversalis from it near Poupart's ligament. The circumflex iliac artery lies behind the outer half of Poupart's ligament, and should be pursued along the crest of the ilium. Deep crural arch.—-Below the level of Poupart's liga- Deep ment is a thin band of fibres, which lies over the femoral arch, vessels, and has received the name of deep crural arch from its position, and its resemblance to Poupart's ligament or the superficial crural arch.* This fasciculus of fibres begins externally about the centre of the ligament, and is prolonged inwards to the pubes, where it is widened, and is inserted into the pectineal line at the abdominal aspect of Gimbernat's ligament. This structure is closely connected with the front * Sometimes this structure is a firm distinct band, and is formed, as it would seem, by some of the lower fibres of the aponeurosis of the external oblique. At other times it is only a thickening of the fascia transversalis with fibres added from the tendon of the transversalis muscle. In six bodies, both male and female, that I examined care- fully, I found the deep arch to be formed only by a thickening of the fascia transversalis. !■ 480 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. of the femoral sheath, and is arched down on the inner side to be fixed to the bone, vessels Vessels in the Wall of the Abdomen. — On the side of mina?°" the abdomen are the intercostal and lumbar arteries, with the wal1, intercostal nerves; in the sheath of the rectus are the epi- gastric and internal mammary vessels ; and around the crest of the ilium is the circumflex iliac branch, inter- The intercostal arteries issue from the spaces between the arteries, ribs, and enter the abdominal wall between the transversalis and internal oblique muscles : they extend forwards with the nerves, supplying the contiguous muscles, and anastomose with the internal mammary, epigastric, and lumbar arteries. Lumbar. Lumbar artery. — The vessel that accompanies the last dorsal nerve is furnished by the first lumbar artery, internal ^e internal mammary artery.—The abdominal branch mamma- 0£ t^js vessei (p. 263.) enters the wall of the abdomen beneath the cartilage of the seventh rib. Descending for a short distance in the sheath of the rectus, the artery enters the substance of that muscle, and anastomoses in it with the epi- gastric artery. Muscu- The musculo-phrenic part of the same artery passes out- io-phre- war(js aiong the margin of the thorax to the last intercostal space: it appears on the under surface of the diaphragm at the ninth rib, and gives offsets to that muscle and the lower intercostal spaces. Epigas- The epigastric artery arises from the external iliac, about teryar" a quarter of an inch above Poupart's ligament; it ascends moses" m tne sheath of the rectus above the umbilicus, and divides tergal"" into branches that enter the muscle, and anastomose with the JUaryin internal mammary. In this course the vessel is first bent rectus.°f inwards, and ascends beneath the fascia transversalis ; but it perforates that fascia, and enters the sheath of the rectus connec- over the defined border at the posterior aspect. As it courses waiiSo? to the rectus, the artery passes beneath the cord and on the men°." inner side of the internal abdominal ring ; and is directed obliquely inwards, across the lower part of the abdomen, where it forms the outer boundary of a triangular space Branch- close to the edge of the rectus. The branches of the artery are numerous but inconsiderable in size; — Pubic a. The pubic branch is a small transverse artery, that runs be- hind Poupart's ligament to the posterior aspect of the pubes, and481 VESSELS OF THE WALL OF THE ABDOMEN. anastomoses with a similar branch from the opposite side. Behind joins ob- the pubes it communicates with a small offset from the obturator ^1™* artery : the size of this anastomosis varies very much, but its situa- offset* tion is internal to the crural ring. b. A cremasteric branch is furnished to the coverings of the cord Cremas- teric. as before mentioned. c. Muscular branches are given from the outer side of the artery Muscu- to supply the abdominal wall, and to anastomose with the inter- costal arteries. Other branches enter the rectus. d. Some cutaneous offsets pierce the rectus, and ramify in the in- ^stane" tegument with the anterior cutaneous nerves. Two veins are found with the epigastric artery ; finally fv^- these join into one and open into the external iliac vein. veins. Peculiarities. — The position of this artery on the trunk of the Peculiar external iliac may be gradually shifted upwards, from the level of origin. Poupart's ligament, as far as two inches and a half above it; or the origin of the vessel may be below the ligament, being trans- ferred to the superficial or the deep femoral artery. Union with branches. — Frequently the epigastric furnishes the May obturator artery to the pelvis; in such case the small communicating obtura! offset, which is ordinarily given to the obturator, may be supposed tor* to be enlarged. Or the epigastric may arise from the obturator— this having its usual course. The circumflex iliac artery arises from the outer side of circum- i i, . • t flex iliac the external iliac, opposite the epigastric, and then courses outwards around the crest of the ilium, as the name expresses. Having pierced the tube of membrane that surrounds the is in wail r . ofabdo- upper part of the femoral vessels, the artery lies at first be- men, low Poupart's ligament, but it next passes beneath the trans- versalis muscle to the middle of the crest of the ilium. Here the vessel pierces the transversalis, and is continued back- and wards, between it and the internal oblique, to anastomose mo?efcs°~ with the ilio-lumbar branch of the internal iliac artery. Its lumbar?" branches are muscular and anastomotic. Near the front of the crest of the ilium a small branch ascends Muscu- lar off- sets. between the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, supplying them, and anastomoses with the epigastric and lumbar arteries. As the vessel extends backwards it gives lateral offsets, that supply the neighbouring muscles, and communicate on the one side with the ilio-lumbar, and on the other with the gluteal artery. The companion vein with this artery is formed by the circum- j unction of two collateral branches, like the epigastric, andflexvem' 11DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 482 crosses the external iliac artery, nearly an incli above Poupart's ligament, to reach the iliac vein on the inner side. Section II. HERNIA OF THE ABDOMEN. Inguinal The lower part of the wall of the abdomen, that has been herma- reServed on the left side of the body, should now be dissected for the anatomy of inguinal hernia. Thedis. Dissection.— The skin, the superficial fascia, and the apo- on the neurosis of the external oblique having been already reflected groin, in the previous examination of the wall of the abdomen, the necessary dissection of the inguinal region will be completed by reflecting the internal oblique muscle. To raise upwards the muscle, its lower fleshy origin from Poupart's ligament must be detached. For this purpose let one incision be made Reflect across the fleshy part of the internal oblique, from the crest of the ilium towards the linea alba; and after the depth of the muscle has been ascertained by the cellular layer beneath it, let the lowest fibres be carefully cut through at their origin from Poupart's ligament. By detaching the muscle cautiously, the student will be able to raise it from the subjacent trans- versalis, so that it may be turned upwards on the abdomen : the separation of the two muscles just mentioned is some- times difficult in consequence of their fibres being blended together, but a cellular interval, and a branch of the circum- flex iliac artery, mark their intermuscular space. The cre- master muscle is then to be divided along the cord, and to be reflected to the sides, clean Let the dissector clean the surface of the transversalis cen{a muscle, without displacing its lower arched border, and pdrts* trace with care the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis, to show its exact extent outwards. The fascia transversalis and the spermatic cord should likewise be nicely cleaned. Crossing the interval apparent below the border of the transversalis muscle, is the epigastric artery, which lies close to the inner side of the internal abdominal ring, but beneath the fascia transversalis: a small piece of483 OBLIQUE INGUINAL HERNIA. the fascia should be cut away to show the vessel on the side of the abdominal ring. Inguinal Hernia. — A protrusion of the intestine through situa- tion of the lower part of the abdominal wall above Poupart s liga- inguinal .... hernia. men t,—-the part corresponding to the inguinal region, is named an inguinal hernia. The escape of the intestine in this re- gion is predisposed to by the deficiency in the muscular Predis- strata, by the passage of the spermatic cord through the abdo- Satura?- minal parietes, and by the existence of fossae on the inner ly' surface of the wall. The gut, in leaving the abdomen, either course passes through the internal abdominal ring with the cord ; or }0^!" is projected through the part of the abdominal wall between the epigastric artery and the edge of the rectus muscle. The hernia of this region is distinguished by the names Two external and internal, derived from its position to the epi- external gastric artery ; and by the terms oblique and direct, from lique; its position in the abdominal wall; so that the hernia that comes through the internal abdominal ring with the cord is called synonymously external or oblique, whilst the hernia between the edge of the rectus and the epigastric artery is internal . . or direct. named, in like manner, internal or direct. External or Oblique Inguinal Hernia leaves the ab- External domen with the spermatic cord, and traversing the inguinal f^e." canal, makes its exit from the wall of the abdomen by the external abdominal ring. Anatomy. — To acquire a knowledge of the anatomy of Ana- this hernia it will be necessary to study the space in which pa™* °f it lies (inguinal canal), the apertures by which it enters and cemed. leaves the wall of the abdomen (abdominal rings), and the coverings that it receives in its progress to the surface of the body. The inguinal canal is the interval between the flat mus- inguinal canal. cles of the abdominal wall, which contains the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. Its Direc. direction is oblique downwards and inwards, being nearly parallel to Poupart's ligament; and its length is about one Length inch and a half. Superiorly it communicates with the cavity open- of the abdomen by the internal abdominal ring, and infe- lngs' riorly ends on the surface at the external abdominal ring. Towards the surface of the body the canal is bounded, Bound- though unequally, by the two oblique muscles: —thus* in next surface. I I 2DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 484 the outer third of its extent (half an inch) it is formed by both oblique muscles; but at the inner or lower two-thirds (one inch) it is bounded in front only by the aponeurosis abdomil6 °^ tne external oblique. Next the cavity of the abdomen v?tyCa" ^e wa^ °^ *ne canal *s constructed by the fascia transver- salis, and the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis, in this wise:—the fascia reaches about half an inch of the distance, like the internal oblique; and the conjoined tendon, with the fascia transversalis behind it, extends the rest of the way (an inch) along the posterior boundary. Occasionally the triangular ligament projects far enough outwards to take part in the formation of the pos- terior wall of the canal, behind the external abdominal ring. Flooring Along the lower part, or the floor, the canal is limited by of the the union of the fascia transversalis with Poupart's ligament, canal. . - . and by the fibres of that ligament that turn back to the pectineal line; whilst along the upper part, its extent is determined only by the apposition of the muscles. Canal in In the female, the canal has the same length and bound- the fe- ° male. aries, though it is usually somewhat smaller. In that sex it lodges the round ligament, internal The internal abdominal ring is an aperture in the fascia abdomi- . . . nairing. transversalis, which is situate hair way between the sym- tion** physis pubis and the crest of the ilium, and half an inch Form above Poupart's ligament. It is oval in form, the extrem- margin. ities of the oval being directed upwards and downwards, and the fascia at its outer and lower parts is stronger than Upper at the opposite side. Arching above the aperture, and then descending on the inner side, is the lower border of the transversalis muscle; this is fleshy at the outer, but ten- inner dinous at the inner half. On the inner side of the opening ary.. lies the epigastric artery. This opening in the fascia trans- versalis is the inlet to the inguinal canal, and through it the cord, or the round ligament, passes into the wall of the Parts abdomen. The external hernia likewise leaves the abdomen trans- „ mitted at the same spot. All the protruding parts receive as a through . 1 . n n > n • it. covering the prolongation of the fascia from the margin 01 the opening. Exter. The external abdominal ring is the outlet of the inguinal dominal canal, and through it the cord, or the inguinal hernia, situa- reaches the surface of the body. This aperture is placed in tion.EXTERNAL OR OBLIQUE INGUINAL HERNIA. 485 the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, near the crest of the os pubis; and from the margin a prolongation is sent on the parts passing through it (see p. 467.). Course and coverings of the hernia. — A piece of intestine Them- that leaves the abdomen with the cord, and continues with follow-' log the it through the inguinal canal to the surface of the body, will course of , . , . i , „ the cord, obtain the same coverings as the cord, viz. one from every structure in the lateral part of the wall of the abdomen, except from the transversalis muscle. It receives its in- has co- . . verings vestments in this order: — as the intestine is first thrust of the perito- outwards, it carries before it the peritoneum and the sub- peritoneal fat, and enters the tube of the fascia transversalis fascia (infimdibuliform fascia) that surrounds the cord. Still in- vrearsaiis, creasing in size the piece of gut is forced downwards to the lower border of the internal oblique muscle, where it will have the cremasteric fascia or covering applied to it. ^m^s- The intestine is afterwards directed along the front of the cord to the external abdominal ring, and in passing through that opening receives the investment of the intercolumnar sperma- or spermatic fascia. Lastly, as the hernia descends to the cia, -it't • c* r* • superfi- scrotum, it has the additional coverings oi the superficial ciai fas- fascia and the skin. So that in a hernia which has passed skin, the external abdominal ring, the coverings from without in- wards are the following: the skin and the superficial fascia, the spermatic and cremasteric fasciae, the fascia transversalis, the subperitoneal fat, and the peritoneum or sac : these dif- if it has ferent laminae become much thickened in a hernia that has abdomi- existed for some time. Should a piece of intestine remain in the inguinal canal, the layers that invest it will depend upon the spot to which it has extended. Seat of stricture. — The protruded intestine may be con- stricture stricted in the internal abdominal ring by the neck of the where sac, in the inguinal canal by the fleshy internal oblique muscle, or at the external abdominal ring ; and the seat of stricture with respect to frequency is the same as the order in which it is here mentioned. Whilst efforts are being made to force back the piece of protruded intestine, the direction of the canal and the situation of the internal ab- dominal ring should be borne in mind; and should it be t0 free necessary to lay bare the intestine and divide the strictured SonoT" 11 3DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 486 the in- part from within, the incision should be made directly cision. , upwards. Terms Designations. — This kind of hernia has other names to the sometimes applied to it by surgeons, according as it has hernia passed certain points in the wall of the abdomen. If the from its protrusion remains in the inguinal canal, the term bubonocele position ; 1 ° 7 is applied to the swelling; but if it has extended into the scrotum, the appellation of scrotal rupture, or oscheocele, is given to it. two va- Varieties of the hernia.—There are two varieties of the oblique inguinal hernia, which are distinguished by the con- dition of the peritoneal covering. For, if the piece of the peritoneum, that accompanies the testicle from the abdomen in the fetus, remain unobliterated, so that the intestine descends in it without protruding any fresh piece of the from serous membrane, the hernia is called congenital. Should turetf the prolongation of the peritoneum be only partly obliterated, toneai"" say in the inguinal canal, so that the descending intestine, sacs. invested by its own peritoneal covering, projects into or behind the unobliterated sac, like a viscus into a serous membrane, the hernia is named infantile. Internal The Internal or Direct Inguinal Hernia passes through comes the wall of the abdomen internal to the epigastric artery, external and has a straight course through the abdominal parietes rmg* and the external abdominal ring. Its situation and cover- ings, and the seat of stricture, will be better comprehended after the examination of the part of the abdominal wall through which the hernia passes, it passes Anatomy: — At the lower part of the abdominal wall is a small triangular space between the epigastric artery on one through a triaii- fpace, side, the outer edge of the rectus muscle on the other, and which is the inner half of Poupart's ligament below. Over the two strength- . ened in part by inner thirds of the area of the space the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis is stretched, as it descends to its insertion into the pectineal line; but at the outer third there exists only fascia transversalis. Any intestine protruding in this spot must, it is evident, rupture or elongate the different structures, because there is not any aperture or tube by which it can descend, as in the external Hernia hernia. Further, the coverings of the hernia, and its extent space of and direction in the lower part of the inguinal canal, must487 INTERNAL OR DIRECT HERNIA. vary according as the gut is forced through the part of the two space covered by the conjoined tendon, or through the part free from that tendon. Course and coverings of the hernia. — The common kind P°*eJj of internal hernia (inferior) passes through the inner part ^™°ore of the triangular space which is covered by the conjoined kiudare tendon, and then straight through the abdominal wall to the external ring; since it does not accompany the cord along the inguinal passage. The intestine in protruding carries perito- before it the peritoneum, the subperitoneal cellular mem- and sub- . . jacent brane, and the fascia transversalis; next, it either elongates fat, the conjoined tendon, or, as is the case in a sudden rupture, trans- versalis, separates the fibres, and escapes between them. Then, the conjoin- intestine advances into the lower part of the inguinal canal don, where it is opposite the external abdominal ring; and it passes outwards through the ring, lying on the inner side of the cord, and receiving at the same time the covering of the sperma- fascia spermatica. Lastly, it is invested by the superficial suVer-013' fascia and the skin. In number the coverings of this in- f^cL, ternal hernia are the same as those in the external form;and skm* and in kind they are the same, with this exception, viz. that the conjoined tendon is substituted for the cremasteric covering. Seat of stricture. — The stricture in this form of hernia stric- occurs most frequently at the neck of the sac, next in fre- g"^_ quency at the margin of the fissured tendon, and last at the tion- external abdominal ring. The position of the openings in the abdominal wall should be kept in mind during attempts to reduce an internal hernia; and the straightness of the course of the intestine, in a comparison with an external hernia, should be remembered. Where it is necessary to open the its dM- hernial sac to relieve the structure, the cut is to be made slon" directly upwards, as in the external hernia. Variety of internal hernia.—-Another kind of internal Rarer hernia (superior) projects through the part of the area of internal the triangular space, where only the fascia transversalis is found. Its existence is dependant upon the position of the is farther obliterated hypogastric artery, behind the wall of the abdo- the pre" men (p. 489.). If this hernia existed, it is evident that it fn tife* would pierce the abdominal wall close to the epigastric la/space,488 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. artery, and would descend along nearly the whole of the and is inguinal canal to reach the external abdominal ring:; conse- oblique ° t ° indirec- quently the term direct will not apply to the form of internal hernia now under consideration. Cover- Coverings. — As this internal hernia traverses nearly same as the whole of the inguinal canal, it has exactly the same in exter- . ° . * nai her- number and kind of coverings as the external hernia that accompanies the spermatic cord, viz. the skin and the super- ficial fascia, the spermatic and cremasteric fasciae, the fascia transversalis, and the subperitoneal fat and the peritoneum. stricture Seat of stricture. — The constriction of the intestine will at same spots, take place at the same spots as in the external hernia; and from the inability always to decide, in the living body, whether the kind of hernia is internal or external, the rule Division observed in dividing the deep stricture is to cut directly upwards, as in the other kinds of inguinal hernia, umbiii- Umbilical Hernia, or exomphalos, is a protrusion of the nia. intestine either through or by the side of the umbilicus. It Course, is very variable in size, and its course is straight through the abdominal wall, cover- Coverings. — The coverings of the intestine in a small lngS hernia are thin, and few in number, viz. the skin and the superficial fascia, a prolongation from the tendinous margin of the abdominal opening, together with the remaining common coverings of the fascia transversalis, the subperi- toneal fat and the peritoneum. If the hernia is suddenly produced, it may want the investment that otherwise is derived from the tendon of the external oblique muscle, become Oyer the end of the tumour the fat of the superficial fascia over the disappears, and this covering becomes blended with the tumour. other contiguous structures, stric- Seat of stricture. — The stricture on the intestine is gene- whe're rally found at the margin of the tendinous opening in the °un ' abdominal wall; and it should be remembered that this opening is at the upper part, not in the centre of the swell- ing. The constriction may be removed by cutting upwards, but there is not any vessel to be injured in the operation, other Other Forms of Hernia.—At each of the other natural nafher. apertures in the parietes of the abdomen, a piece of intestine mseare protruded, so as to form a hernial tumour. For femoral, instance, there may be femoral hernia below Poupart's liga-489 CORDS AND FOSSiE OF THE WALL. ment, with the femoral vessels; obturator hernia through obtura- the obturator foramen, with the artery of the same name;tor' and ischiadic hernia through the ischiadic notch. The ischia- . . die. femoral hernia, as the most important, will be noticed pre- sently ; but the student must refer to some special treatise * for his information respecting the other abdominal hernia. Dissection. — The abdomen may now be opened to see the Dissec- cords and the depressions on the posterior aspect of the abdominal wall, below the umbilicus. For that purpose a transverse cut is to be made through the umbilicus across the front of the abdomen. On holding up the lower part of the abdominal wall certain cords will be seen ascending to the umbilicus from the pelvis. Cords of the abdominal wall. — In the middle line of the Cords abdominal wall, at its posterior aspect, is the prominence of aodo- the remains of the urachus, which reaches from the summit men' of the bladder to the umbilicus. On each side is another one in middle cord, formed by the obliterated hypogastric artery; this is line> directed from the side of the pelvis to the umbilicus, and another it t i t • t i i • • 0n eaCh usually lies behind or close to the epigastric artery, near side, Poupart's ligament. Fossce. — When the disposition of the cords is such as forming •in -r~k t\VO fos- above mentioned, two fossae are seen near Poupart s liga- see. ment, one on each side of the obliterated hypogastric artery, corresponding to the situation of the internal and external abdominal rings, and to the places where the external and internal (common kind) herniae occur. But occasionally the Some- cord of the obliterated hypogastric is moved inwards from last cord the line of the epigastric artery, and comes to lie behind the inwards triangular space between this artery and the edge of the rectus, at the line of junction of the outer with the two inner thirds of the space. In this last case there would be a causing hollow or fossa at the lower part of the abdomen on each fossae, side of that cord, corresponding to the two subdivisions of the triangular space between the rectus and the epigastric artery, and to the spots at which the two kinds of internal hernia escape. When the hypogastric cord has the unusual position last mentioned, there may be three fossse at each side, on the lower part of the abdominal wall; one between * A Treatise on Ruptures, by W. Lawrence, F.R.S.490 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. it and the urachus, another between it and the epigastric, ofUtheer an<^ a outside the epigastric artery. The presence of hernial these fossa? determines the existence of the different kinds of protru- sions inguinal hernia ; there being one, two, or three, on each same as . ° # ° fossae, side, according to the fossae. situation Femoral Hernia.—In this hernia the intestine leaves of the femoral the abdomen, below Poupart's ligament, in the loose sheath hernia. ' r & . ' that surrounds the femoral vessels. The course that the intestine takes, and the coverings that it receives, will be readily understood after the anatomy of the parts among which it passes has been learnt. Only so much of the structures will be described here, as can be now seen, the rest is fully noticed in the dissection of the thigh. Dissec- Dissection. — The examination of the structures concerned the parts in the femoral hernia is to be made on the left side of the ed. body. The lower part of the abdominal wall is to be divided from the umbilicus to the pubes, and the peritoneum is to be detached from the inner surface of the wall, and from the iliac fossa. The layer of the subperitoneal fat is next to be separated in the same way, but before doing this it will be • necessary to cut through the cord at the abdominal ring : as this layer is raised, one or more lymphatic glands will be seen by the side of the iliac vessels. Any cellular membrane that remains, is to be taken away to show the upper opening of the membranous sheath that contains the femoral vessels. In this dissection the genito-crural nerve is seen on the iliac artery. Afterwards the iliac fascia and the fascia transver- salis are to be traced to Poupart's ligament, to see the part that each takes in the production of the femoral sheath. Anatomy Anatomy. — The parts concerned in the femoral hernia struc- are severally to be examined, viz. the subperitoneal fat; the tures* membranes (transversalis and iliac fascia) lining the interior of the abdominal cavity near Poupart's ligament, with the sheath to which they give origin ; and, lastly, the crural ring, or the space through which the hernia leaves the abdomen. subpe- The subperitoneal fat extends as a continuous layer be- ntoneai neat]1 peritoneum, though it is thickest and most fibrous at the lower part of the abdomen, where the vessels pass be- neath Poupart's ligament. At that spot it extends over the upper opening of the sheath of the vessels, instead of descend-FEMORAL HERNIA. 491 ing in it around the vessels ; and internal to the vein, it covers a space named crural ring, and a lymphatic gland that occupies that space. The piece of the layer that forms stretches over the crural ring is named by M. Cloquet cruraie. septum cruraie, and is described by him as being concave towards the abdomen, and convex towards the thigh: some apertures exist in it for the ducts of the inguinal glands, and one gland is generally attached to its under surface. The fascia transversalis has been before described Fascia ^ trans- (p. 476.). When traced down to Poupart's ligament, it may versaiis. be seen to join the iliac fascia external to the situation of the large iliac artery; but internal to that spot it is con- tinued downwards to the thigh, in front of the femoral vessels, and forms the anterior part of the crural or femoral sheath. The iliac fascia covers the iliacus muscle, and lies beneath mac fas- the iliac vessels. At Poupart's ligament its disposition is found to resemble that of the transversalis fascia; for ex- ternal to the iliac vessels it joins that fascia along the line of Poupart's ligament; but, internal to the spot mentioned, it is prolonged behind the vessels into the posterior part of ■ the crural sheath. The crural or femoral sheath is the loose membrane that sheath encloses the femoral vessels as these enter the thigh : it IS ral ves- derived from the membranes that line the abdomen ; — its formed anterior half being continuous with the fascia transversalis, of pre-ets and its posterior half with the fascia iliaca. The whole ofceding' the upper part of the sheath is not filled by the vessels, for a space (crural ring) remains on the inner side of the vein, which contains a gland, and through which the intestine descends in femoral hernia. The crural ring is partly described in the dissection of the a space thigh, but its boundaries are better seen in the examination side of of the abdomen. It is the interval in the sheath, at the inner seis\T~ side of the femoral vein ; it is about half an inch wide, and ral ring, is filled by a lymphatic gland. Internally, it is bounded by size and Gimbernat's ligament and the conjoined tendon, and exter- ries. nally by the femoral vein. In front is Poupart's ligament with the deep arch, and behind is the pubes. Along the front of the space is the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 492 Usual Position of vessels around the ring.—Commonly the crural around ring is almost surrounded by vessels. Thus, on the outer rms' side, is the femoral vein ; and above this, on the outer side, are the epigastric vessels. In front is a small branch (pubic) from the epigastric artery to the back of the pubes; and, the vessels of the spermatic cord may be said to be placed along the anterior aspect of the ring. The ring is bounded there- fore by vessels, except internally and behind, state of jn some bodies the obturator artery takes origin from the un- J ° vessels ^e epigas^ric? an(^ comes to lie along a part of the ring as it passes to the pelvis. In that course it may have two posi- tions with respect to the ring : either it lies close to the iliac vein, and therefore on the outer side of the ring ; or it arches over the ring, descending on the inner side, at the base of Gimbernat's ligament. If the artery takes the first-men- tioned course, which is the most frequent arrangement, the inner side of the ring will still be free from vessels ; but in the other condition the ring will have an additional vessel on the inner side, and will be entirely encircled except at the posterior part. Course Course and coverings of femoral hernia. — The intestine verings leaves the abdomen by the opening of the crural ring ; and hernia, it descends in the large sheath of the vessels, internal to the vein, as far as the saphenous opening, where it projects to From the surface of the thigh. In its progress the intestine wTill abdomen , , _ . ' _ ? , ? . i n , it has push before it the peritoneum, the subperitoneal tat (septum neum crurale), and will displace, or cause to be absorbed, the gland perito- that fills the crural ring. Having reached the level of the nealfat. , . , °. . & . saphenous opening, the intestine carries betore it the inner inner side of the femoral sheath and the cribriform fascia ; and, sheath, lastly, it receives coverings from the superficial structures of the thigh. The dissection of the thigh may be referred to for fuller detail. stricture Seat of stricture. — The stricture of a femoral hernia is either in the neck of the sac, opposite the base of Gimbernat's ligament; or lower down, at the margin of the saphenous either in opening in the thigh. To free the intestine from the con- atsaphe. stricting band of the saphenous opening, an incision is to be opening, made upwards and inwards ; and to relieve the stricture in incision the neck of the sac, the knife is to be carried horizontally in-493 CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. wards through a few fibres of the free edge of Gimbernat's to divide ligament. Danger to vessels.—When the incision is made upwards Risk of and inwards to loosen the band at the margin of the saphe- ing yes- nous opening, there will not be any vessel injured unless, in- regular deed, the cut should be made so long as to reach the sper- matic cord, or the small pubic branch of the epigastric artery. And in the division of the stricture deep in the neck of the sac, there is not, in ordinary cases, any vessel on the inner side of the ring, and therefore in the way of the knife, as this is carried inwards. But in some few instances and irre- (once in about eighty operations, Lawrence), the obturator condi- artery takes its unusual course, lying in front, and on the th°em°f inner side of the neck of the sac, and will be before the knife in the division of the constriction. This condition of the vessel cannot be recognised beforehand, but the surgeon would best avoid the danger of wounding the artery by a cautious and sparing use of the knife. Section III. CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. The abdominal cavity is the space included between the Defini- spinal column and the arches continued forwards from it, tlon with the intervening muscles. It contains the digestive, and urinary, and generative organs, and their vessels and nerves. contents- Dissection. — To prepare the cavity for examination, the Dissec- remainder of the abdominal wall above the umbilicus is to be opeVab- divided by a cut along the left side of the linea alba as far as domen' the xiphoid cartilage, and the flaps are to be thrown to the sides. Size and form. — This space is the largest in the body, is largest It is oval in form with the ends of the oval upwards and bodj? downwards, so that it measures more in the vertical than the Is oval* transverse direction; and it is much wider superiorly than inferiorly. Boundaries.—Above it is limited by the diaphragm; and Above oelow, by the levatores am, and the structures that close the dia- outlet of the pelvis : both these boundaries are fleshy, and below * , , , ' levator concave towards the contents of the cavity, so that the ani-494 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Behind muscles of the abdominal wall. Behind is the spinal column is spine. with the muscles contiguous to it, viz. the psoas and the viscera will be acted on by their contraction and flattening. Jcdon* ^n ^ron^ ana* on ^ne sides tne parietes are partly osseous and sides- partly muscular : thus towards the upper and lower limits is and mus- the bony framework of the body, viz. the ribs in one direc- tion and the pelvis in the other ; but in the centre are the muscles of the abdom: with the muscles coi quadratics lumborum. Depth is Alterations in size.—The dimensions of the cavity are in- altered •> o?diation fluenced by the varying conditions of the boundaries. The andailva- dePtn ^s diminished by the contraction and descent of the tor ani. diaphragm, and the contraction and ascent of the levatores ani; and is restored to its former dimensions by the relaxation by mus- °^tnose muscles. The width is diminished by the contraction waYof °f tne abdominal muscles; and is enlarged during their re- ^edn°" laxation by the viscera driven outwards, during the diminu- tion in depth, by the action of the diaphragm and the levatores How ani. The greatest diminution of the space is effected by the expelled, simultaneous contraction of the muscular boundaries, as in the expulsion of the excreta. Division Divisions of the space. — An arbitrary division of the of space. •s ± J space into that of the pelvis and that of the abdomen proper, has been made. poJuon ^ne Pe^c potion is situate below the brim of the pelvis, and contains chiefly the generative and urinary organs. Abdo-; The abdominal portion reaches from the diaphragm to the proper, brim of the pelvis, and lodges the alimentary tube and its appendages, together with the kidneys—the secretory organs of the urine. A serous membrane, the peritoneum, lines the cavity, and covers the viscera. Abdo. The following description concerns the part of the cavity men pro- x , • * per here between the diaphragm and the brim of the pelvis. Towards describe. n • the end of the dissection of the abdomen, the cavity of the after? pelvis will receive a separate notice. Abdomi- Regions.—The abdominal cavity is divided artificially vity is into regions by lines extended between certain points of the marked . . out into parietes. If two circular lines are carried round the body, regions. , so that one shall be opposite the cartilage of the ninth rib, and the other on a level with the most prominent part of the crest of the ilium, the abdominal cavity will be divided irto three parts, — the epigastric above, the hypogastric below^CONNECTIONS OF THE VISCERA. 495 and the umbilical in the middle. Each of these regions is further subdivided into three by two lines, one on each side, from the cartilage of the eighth rib to the centre of Poupart's ligament. This vertical line will mark off on each side a piece from each of the three circles, which is named respec- tively, from above downwards, hypochondriac, lumbar, and iliac. In addition, the central and lower part of the hypo- gastric subdivision is named pubic region, whilst its lateral portion is designated the inguinal region. Contents and their position. — The alimentary tube and its Parts in it- -i -i i cavity. accessory parts, the liver, pancreas, and spleen, occupy the upper division of the cavity of the abdomen. The kidney is also situate in the same part of the abdominal space. The alimentary tube presents differences in form, and is General , . . . division divided into stomach, small intestine, and large intestine; of aii- . . mentary and each of these divisions is further subdivided as it will tube afterwards appear. The several viscera have the following general position : — The small intestine is much coiled, and occupies the j^p08*- greater part of the cavity ; whilst the great intestine arches around it. Both are fixed in position by folds of the serous Position, lining. Above the arch of the great intestine are located the cessive stomach, the liver, the spleen, and the pancreas ; and below PdItS* it is the convoluted small gut. Behind the large intestine on ofkid- ° m ° ney. each side is the kidney with its excretory tube. Superficial view of the contents— On first opening the Jyts of abdomen the following viscera appear: — On the right side seen ^ is the liver, which is partly concealed by the ribs. On the displace, left side a part of the stomach is visible; but this viscus lies chiefly beneath the ribs, and is somewhat overlaid by the liver. Descending from the stomach is a fold of peritoneum (the large omentum), which reaches to the pelvis, and con- ceals the intestine: in some bodies the omentum is raised into the left hypochondriac region, and leaves the small in- testine uncovered. If the bladder is distended, a small part of it may come into view just above the pelvis. CONNECTIONS OF THE VISCERA. Before the natural position of the viscera is disturbed, Connec- their connections wTith the surrounding parts, and their situa- visceraDISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 496 to be tion in the different regions of the abdomen, should be ex- seen. . , ammed. Position The stomach, — The stomach intervenes between the mach." gullet and the small intestine, and is retained in position partly by folds of the serous membrane. It is somewhat of a conical form, with the larger end to the left side; and it occupies the left hypochondriac, the epigastric, and part of the right hypochondriac region. Extre- At the left end it receives the cesophagus, and it is there- mities, m . large fore firmly fixed by this tube to the diaphragm. This end lies beneath the ribs, and is in contact with the spleen, to which it is connected by a fold of peritoneum (splenic omen- tum) : when this part of the stomach is distended it pushes up the diaphragm, and encroaches on the space for the heart, and and the left lung. The right extremity ends in the small in- testine and reaches towards the gall bladder; it is in contact with the wall of the abdomen and the under surface of the liver. surfaces. The anterior surface is in contact, from left to right, with the diaphragm, the abdominal wTall, and the under part of the liver; and the posterior surface corresponds to the pancreas, the pillars pf the diaphragm with the aorta, and the solar plexus. Borders. The upper border is connected to the liver by a fold of peritoneum, the small omentum ; and the lower border gives attachment to another peritoneal fold, the great omentum or epiploon, which floats freely over the intestine. Connec- The connections with the surrounding parts will be in- pendon" Auenced by the condition of the stomach: for when this ditioru" viscus is empty its surfaces look forwards and backwards, and its borders upwards and downwards ; but when it is dis- tended, it becomes somewhat circular, and makes a half ro- tatory movement, so as to bring forwards the border usually lowest, and to turn upwards that surface which is directed forwards at other times. Altera- The position and the connections of the stomach may be position also changed by an alteration in the size of any of the sur- easT.dls" rounding organs, or by accumulation of fluid in the chest, or in the belly. The stomach may likewise be dragged down by the great omentum entering a hernial sac, or it may be forced down towards the pelvis by the pressure of tight stays.CONNECTIONS OF THE INTESTINE. 497 In all these different changes in its position, the right end moves more than the left, because it is attached only by pe- ritoneum to the parts around. The small intestine, — The smaller part of the intestinal Sma11. A intestine. tube (intestinum tenue) reaches from the stomach to the rio-ht iliac region, where it ends in the large intestine. It situation — -| , 3 \ ■„ . anddivi- is divided into three parts, duodenum (twelve ringers mtes- sions. tine), jejunum, and ileum ; of the two last, one receives its name from its empty condition, and the other from its nu- merous coils. The duodenum cannot be satisfactorily seen at present, Duode- and it will be examined afterwards. The jejunum and ileum begin on the left side of the ^unum second lumbar vertebra, without any distinct mark of sepa- ileum, ration from the duodenum. Two-fifths of the intestine are given to the jejunum, and the remaining three-fifths to the ileum. This part of the intestinal tube forms many convo- situa- lutions in the umbilical, hypogastric, lumbar, and iliac re- gions of the abdomen; and it descends oftentimes in the female into the cavity of the pelvis. In front of the convo- lutions is the great omentum; and posteriorly the small in- Connec- testine (beyond the duodenum) is fixed to the spine by a fold of peritoneum named the mesentery, which includes the vessels and nerves. Surrounding the jejunum and ileum is the large intestine or colon; but on the left side of the body the large is concealed by the small intestine. The large intestine. — The large intestine or colon is sac- Large culated, and is less moveable than the small intestine. It howdis- begins in the right iliac region in a dilated part or head ed.smsh" (caput caecum coli), and ascends to the liver through the right iliac, lumbar, and hypochondriac regions. Then cross- course ing the abdomen below the stomach, it reaches the left hypo- chondriac region ; and it lies in this transverse part of its course between the epigastric and umbilical regions, or alto- gether in the latter. Finally, it descends on the left side and ex- through the regions corresponding to those it occupied on tent* the right, forms a remarkable bend (sigmoid flexure) in the left iliac fossa, and enters the pelvis to end on the surface of the body. The large intestine takes an arched course around the small intestine, and is divided into six parts, viz. caecum, Dn K K JlVl- sions.498 DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. ascending colon, transverse colon, descending colon, sigmoid flexure, and rectum. Caecum, The ccecum, or the commencement of the colon, is placed of cSon. in the right iliac fossa, in which it is fixed by the perito- situation neum stretched over it. In front are the convolutions of the small intestine, but when it is distended it touches the abdo- and con- minal wall. Behind, it rests on the iliac fascia, only cellular nections. , . . /-\ i ♦ membrane intervening. On the inner side it is joined by the small intestine ; and it presents inferiorly a worm-like piece — the vermiform appendix. Sometimes the perito- neum surrounds the caecum, and attaches it by a fold to the abdominal wall. Ascend- The ascending colon reaches from the caecum to the under ion. surface of the liver, on the right of the gall bladder. It lies against the quadratus lumborum inferiorly, but higher up it Parts is placed in front of the kidney. The peritoneum fixes it immoveably to the wall of the abdomen; and usually it does not surround more than two-thirds of the circumference, but it may be found to encircle the tube, and form a fold behind this, as in the caecum. To its inner side are the convolutions of the small intestine. Connec- The transverse colon passes obliquely upwards and to the the left, along the curvature of the stomach, as far as the spleen ; verse co- but in this course it is somewhat bent, for it is deeper at each end than in the middle, and is sometimes named the arch of the colon. In this extent it has above it the liver and the gall bladder, the stomach, and the spleen ; and below it the small intestine. In front is the great omentum ; and behind, is a fold of peritoneum, the transverse meso-colon, which attaches it to the back of the abdominal wall, and con- is most tains its vessels and nerves. The transverse colon is more moveable than any other part of the large intestine, its peri- large in- toneal fold allowing it to be raised and placed on t&e margin of the ribs. Small pieces of peritoneum, containing fat, the appendices epiploicae, are fixed along it. Descend- The descending colon commences below the spleen, and ion.c°" reaches to the left iliac fossa. At first it is deeply placed in the left hypochondriac region, and in its whole course it is situa- deeper than the right colon. In front of it are the convolu- tions of the small intestine ; and behind, are the diaphragm, the outer part of the kidney, and the quadratus lumborum.CONNECTIONS OF THE LIVER. 499 This part of the intestine is smaller than either the right or is cover- the transverse portion; and it is commonly less surrounded smainn- • i • i n testine. by the peritoneum that attaches it to the abdominal wall. The sigmoid flexure of the colon is situate in the left iliac |^^d fossa, to which it is attached by a fold of the peritoneum, the sigmoid meso-colon, but it is often partly situate in the cavity of the pelvis. The intestine makes two turns like the letter S, and has obtained its name from that circumstance. It is concealed by the small intestine, which is directed more is in left J 7 iliac fos- to the left than to the right side. The extent of this part of sa. the colon is from the crest of the ilium to the junction of the same bone with the sacrum, where it ends in the rectum. The rectum is the termination of the large intestine,, which Rectum. is contained in the pelvis; and it will be seen in the dissec- tion of that cavity. The liver. — The liver is situate in the right hypochon- driac, and epigastric regions, and reaches slightly into the left hypochondriac. Folds of peritoneum (ligaments) retain it in its place. The upper surface is convex, and turned to the vault of Surfaces, the diaphragm, and is divided into two parts by the suspen- sory ligament; its right half, more prominent than its left, reaches to the level of the fifth intercostal space. The under surface is in contact with the stomach and the duodenum, with the ascending colon, and the right kidney and the supra- renal body. Attached to this surface is a fold of the peri- toneum (small omentum) that contains the hepatic vessels. The anterior border is thin, and is constantly varying its Borders, position to the wall of the thorax according to the distension of the stomach, and the position of the body and the dia- phragm. This edge, except a small part near the xiphoid cartilage, lies, in adult males, usually within the margin of the ribs, but in women and children it projects below that line. The gall bladder projects beyond this edge. The posterior border is thick, and is connected to the diaphragm by certain ligaments or folds of the peritoneum; it lies on the spine, on the large vessels (aorta and cava), and on the pillars of the diaphragm. The liver is constantly changing its situation with the Position ascent and descent of the diaphragm in respiration ; for in eVbyng~ inspiration it descends, and in expiration it regains its for- phragm, K K 2500 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. bypos- mer level. In the upright and sitting postures this viscus body, descends lower than in the horizontal condition of the body; so that in the former state, the anterior border may be felt underneath the edge of the ribs, but in the latter it is with- an d by drawn within their margin. The connections of the liver in other with the surrounding parts may be changed by the growth of tumours, by collections of fluid in the chest or in the abdomen, or by constricting the space for its lodgment, as in tight lacing. situa- The spleen. — The spleen lies deeply in the left hypochon- spieen. drium, between the stomach and the ribs, and is connected by peritoneum to the great end of the stomach on the one side, and to the diaphragm on the other side. Its position Connec- is almost vertical. Its outer surface is convex, and corre- sponds to the diaphragm, and is opposite the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs. At the inner surface, which is concave, the vessels enter, and to it the fold of peritoneum, the gastro- splenic omentum, is attached; in front of the vessels it touches the stomach, and behind them it is in contact with the left crus of the diaphragm, the suprarenal capsule, and the tail of the pancreas. Below the spleen are the kidney and the beginning of the descending colon. When the stomach is distended the spleen is somewhat behind it. Kidney The hidney. — The kidney should be examined on the left side of the«body, so that the duodenum may not be displaced. In order that it may be seen, the descending colon1 and the peritoneum must be separated from the abdominal wall. This viscus is surrounded with fat, and is situate in the lum- bar region (one on each side), opposite the last dorsal, and the two or three upper lumbar vertebrae. Its position is somewhat oblique, so that the upper is nearer than the lower Parts in end to the spinal column. In front of the kidney are the behind, peritoneum and the colon; and behind it, are the quadratus lumborum and psoas muscles, and the diaphragm and the above, last two ribs. Above each kidney and resting on it, is the below, suprarenal capsule ; and below each is the crest of the ilium, inside. The inner border looks to the spine and receives the vessels: whilst the outer border projects towards the side of the ab- dominal wall. Sometimes the two are united in front of the aorta, and form the horse-shoe kidney. Right Difference on opposite sides. — The right kidney is placed highest. occupies lumbar region.501 REFLECTIONS OF THE PERITONEUM. K K 3 rather lower than the left; it reaches to the lower border of the last rib but one, whilst its fellow is opposite the ripper border of the corresponding rib. In front of it, in addition to the Different r ° , 7 parts common connections before specified, are the duodenum and the before liver; and before the left one is the lower end of the spleen. Above the right is the liver, and above the left the spleen. The connections of the pancreas may be omitted for the Pan- J creas. present. THE PERITONEUM. This is the largest serous membrane in the body. Like Perito. ° ^ e neum other membranes of the kind it is a closed sac, except in the female, in whom it is continuous with the lining of the Fal- lopian tubes. One^ part of it lines the wall of the abdomen consists (parietal layer), and another is reflected over the different rietai viscera (visceral layer), except where the vessels enter. Its cerai inner surface is smooth ; but the outer is rough, when it is ayer' detached from the surfaces with which it is naturally in con- tact. The membrane forms folds as it passes from vise us to and viscus along the vessels ; these attach the viscera to the ab- folds on dominal wall, and consist for the most part of two layers, one on each side of the vessels. The continuity of the sac may be traced both in a vertical and a horizonal direction. Horizontal circle around the abdomen.—If the membrane be fol- Conti-^ lowed outwards from the umbilicus, it will be found partly to en- thety ° close the large intestine, and to fix it to the abdominal wall. From brane the colon it may be traced over the kidney as far as the middle fheiwdy, line, where it is reflected along the vessels going to the small in- testine, over the intestine, and then back to the spine along the cus« other aspect of the vessels. Lastly it may be pursued outwards to the right colon, which it encircles like the left, and along the wall of the abdomen to the umbilicus. The membrane, that fixes the colon on each side to the abdominal wall, is named meso-colon, and that attaching the small intestine is the mesentery. Vertical circle or from above downwards. — Beginning at the liver, Con- the student may perceive that the peritoneum covering it is pro- o?they longed from the under surface of that viscus on the vessels. From ^JJ1.8 the liver it may be followed along those vessels, one piece before and the other behind them, forming the small omentum, to the above 7 down; upper border of the stomach. At the stomach, the two pieces en- closing the vessels separate, one going before, and the other behind502 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. it; but beyond that viscus, they are applied to one another to form the great omentum or epiploon. After descending in con- tact in that fold to the lower part of the abdomen, they may be traced in it backwards and upwards, and may be seen to separate to enclose the transverse colon like the stomach, and then to continue to the spine, giving rise to the transverse meso-colon. At the attachment of the transverse meso-colon to the spine, the two companion pieces will be found to separate, — one passing up- wards, the other downwards, forms The ascending piece is continued in front of the pancreas and omeCn-0f tne pi^ars of the diaphragm, and blends with the peritoneum on tum, posterior aspect of the liver : in its ascent it forms the posterior part of a pouch or bag, which is behind the stomach, and de« b. The descending piece or layer may be followed from the trans- overthe verse meso-colon along the middle line of the spine, over the duo- to^he116 denum and the great vessels on the spine (aorta and cava), till it pelvis, meets with the artery to the small intestine, along which it is continued to form the mesentery, as before explained in tracing the peritoneum in a circular direction. From the root of the mesen- teric artery the peritoneum descends to the pelvis, and partly covers the viscera in that cavity. Thus it surrounds the upper part of the rectum, and attaches this to the abdominal wall by the meso-rectum; next, it is continued forwards between the rectum and the bladder, or between the rectum and the uterus, where it forms a pouch; thence it passes from the pelvis over the back and sides of the bladder. Lastly, the serous membrane is continued to the inguinal region, where it presents the pouches before alluded to (p. 489.) ; and it can be traced upwards on the wall of the abdo- men and the diaphragm to the rest of the membrane on the upper surface of the liver. Chief Folds of the peritoneum, — After tracing the continuity of thedpe°rfi- the serous sac over the viscera, the student is to examine the toneum. c^ef f0^s or processes of the membrane, in connection with the alimentary tube. The pieces of the peritoneum that fix the liver, will be examined after: and the folds on the vis- cera of the pelvis will be learnt with the dissection of that cavity. on the Folds on the stomach.—The processes of the serous mem- stomach omenta, brane in connection with the stomach are named omenta. They are three in number : — one, small omentum, is attached to the upper curve, another, great omentum, to the lower curve, and the third, splenic omentum, is fixed to the great •end of the viscus. small The small or gastro-hepatic omentum is stretched betweenm FOLDS OF THE PERITONEUM. 503 the under surface of the liver and the upper border of the omen, stomach, and contains the vessels and nerves of the liver. It g"™a_ is formed by two pieces of peritoneum, as before explained, tion- and presents a free border on the right side. Behind it is the space called foramen of Winslow. Its lower border is Attach- * t ments. fixed to the small curve of the stomach ; whilst its upper border is attached to the transverse fissure, as well as to the posterior half of the longitudinal fissure of the liver, be- coming blended with the left lateral ligament of that viscus. The gastro-colic or great omentum is the largest fold of Great the peritoneum, and consists of two pieces or layers, continu- t™u~' ous with those on the front and back of the stomach. It is Auach-' attached to the spleen and to the lower border of the stomach, ments* where the pieces are separated by vessels, and then descends in front of the intestine, but lower on the left than the right side of the body. At the lower part of the abdomen Forms the fold is bent backwards, and returns towards the spine, in front the pieces of which it is composed separating and enclosing °nteT-a the transverse colon as before seen. Between the layers oftlne* the peritoneum are contained some fat, and some vessels and nerves; and the power of separating the one from the other diminishes with the increase of the distance from the stomach, until at last they are not to be separated, and the membrane they form is thin and net-like. The anterior consists part of the omentum is separated from the posterior by a Takers, space (bag of the omentum), that extends a varying distance. a. Cavity or bag of the great omentum. — When an opening is Bag of made through the great omentum, near the stomach, and this viscus 0rnen- is raised, a large space is seen to extend upwards to the liver, and tum* downwards into the omentum. This is the omental sac. In front Bound- the space is bounded by the small omentum, the stomach, and the anes' anterior part of the great omentum. Behind it are the posterior part of the great omentum, with the transverse colon, and the transverse meso-colon with its ascending layer. Above is the liver ; and below is the doubling of the great omentum. This bag Opens communicates with the rest of the peritoneal cavity, through the general space behind the small omentum (foramen of Winslow). If the fo^merf bag of the omentum were perfect, it could be inflated through the of wins- . . low. foramen ; or if it were detached from the surrounding parts, it could be drawn through the same hole into the general bag of the peritoneum. Supposing it to be detached and drawn out, the fol- lowing parts would have peritoneum taken from them, viz. the504 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. small omentum (posterior piece), the posterior part of the stomach, the great omentum (inner piece), the upper aspect of the trans- verse colon, the pancreas and the spine, and the posterior part of the liver. Should this piece of peritoneum be removed, there is not any hindrance to the vessels reaching the different viscera ; and it may readily be conceived how the detached membrane could be replaced over the viscera, and around the vessels without being perforated by them. Foramen The foramen of Winslow is the space behind the small omen- \o^im" ^um> tnrough which the bag of the omentum opens into the general cavity of the peritoneum. In front of it is the small omentum, and behind are the vena cava and the spine. Above it is the liver (lobulus Spigelii), and below is the duodenum. Should this hole be closed by inflammation, there might be a dropsical collection either in the bag of the omentum, or in the general bag of the peritoneum. splenic The splenic omentum reaches from the great end of the turn?" stomach to the concave surface of the spleen, and does not consist usually of two strata or pieces, like the other omenta. It covers the vessels that pass between the two viscera, and is continued inferiorly into the great omentum. Perito- Folds on the large intestine. — The large intestine is con- attach- nected to the wall of the abdomen by folds of the peritoneum infesdne6 (meso-colic), which are formed of two pieces, as the other forms processes. Each part of the colon has a separate meso-colon attaching it: thus there is an ascending, a transverse, a de- scending, and a sigmoid meso-colon : the caecum is also fixed by a meso-csecum, and the rectum by a meso-rectum. Meso. a. The meso-ccecum attaches the ccecum to the right iliac caecum. fossa> Usually the peritoneum does not surround the caecum so as to form a fold behind it, but in some bodies the serous membrane does give a suspensory band to that part of the intestine. Ascend- b. By the ascending and the descending meso-colon, the descend- ascending and the descending part of the colon are kept in lng' place. In these folds, as in that of the cascum, the perito- neum is not commonly in contact behind the intestine, and though it may meet behind and form processes. The sigmoid meso-ld meso-colon is a long piece of the serous membrane, and at- taches the sigmoid flexure of the colon to the left iliac fossa. The meso-rectum contains the hasmorrhoidal vessels, and con- nects the rectum to the front of the sacrum-505 LIGAMENTS OF THE LIVER. c. The transverse meso-colon is a more perfect fold than Trans- either of the others connected with the large intestine, and meso. serves as a partition between the small intestine and the stomach, liver, and spleen. By one side it is fixed to the colon, and by the other side to the abdominal wall below the pancreas. It is formed of two layers of peritoneum, as be- fore said, which enclose the vessels of the colon. Small processes of the peritoneum are attached along the Appen- tube of the great intestine, chiefly to the transverse colon; ePi- • 7 i p ploicse. they are the appendices epiplo'icce, and contain fat. Folds of the small intestine. — The small intestine is not Perito- enveloped by the peritoneum after the same manner through covering ~A • • m of small all its extent. For whilst the jejunum and ileum are at-intes- tached to the abdominal wall by one fold (mesentery), the duodenum has special connections with the serous membrane. Serous covering of the duodenum. — The first part of the Perito- duodenum is surrounded by peritoneum, like the stomach; the duode. next part is covered only in front; and the last part, that crosses the aorta, is but slightly in contact with the serous membrane, for at first it lies between the strata of the trans- verse meso-colon, and then beneath the upper part of the superior mesenteric artery. The mesentery supports the rest of the small intestine (je- Mesen- junum and ileum), and is stronger than any other fold of the ter> serous membrane. Its inner end is narrow, and is attached Form, to the spine, from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra to the junction of the right os ilii with the sacrum. The Attach- other end of the fold is wide, and is connected with the in- testine. Between its two layers are the superior mesenteric Parts vessels and nerves, with lymphatic glands and lacteals. ed in it. Ligaments of the liver.—The reflections of the peritoneum Pen- between the liver and the wall of the abdominal cavity are folds of named ligaments. There is a suspensory fold along the upper e lver* part, containing the obliterated umbilical vein; and there is a coronary ligament along the posterior border. The suspensory or falciform ligament is placed between Supen- the upper convex surface of the liver, and the parietes of the gament. abdomen. It is falciform in shape, and has the base turned shape, forwards, and the apex backwards. The lower border is Attach- concave, and is attached to the liver; whilst the opposite menU border is convex, and is connected to the abdominal wall, on506 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. the right side of the linea alba, and to the under part of the Contains diaphragm. In its base or free part is contained the remnant liga- of the umbilical vein, which is named the round ligament This fold is produced by the passage of the umbilical vein to How the liver, above the sac of the peritoneum ; and with a little formed. care the dissector will be able to detach the serous membrane from the vein, and to trace the sac continuously upwards on each side of it into the suspensory ligament. Coro- The coronary ligament is a short but wide process of the ligament peritoneum, which connects the hinder part of the liver to the diaphragm. It reaches all across the liver ; though at each side it is enlarged, and forms a triangularly shaped piece; to these larger pieces of it the terms right and left lateral ligaments have been applied, gives a. The left triangular or lateral portion is attached to the left and liver above the edge of the left lobe, and is formed by two pieces of peritoneum, which are in contact; it lies in front of the oesophagean opening in the diaphragm, right o. The right triangular or lateral portion lies deeply in triangu- the hypochondriac region, in front of the vena cava inferior, merit!?" Its two pieces of peritoneum are widely separated from one another and between them the kidney touches the liver. MESENTERIC VESSELS AND SYMPATHETIC NERVE. Examine Directions. — The vessels and nerves (mesenteric) that are sdftcT" distributed to the alimentary tube, except to the upper and tines? tne lower part, may be first dissected. After these have been examined, and the connections of the aorta and vena cava have been seen, the intestine can be taken out to give room for the display of the viscera in the upper part of the cavity. vessels Mesenteric Vessels. — The mesenteric arteries (superior unen.tes" and inferior) are two large visceral branches of the aorta, which supply the whole of the intestinal tube, except the duo- denum and the rectum. Each is accompanied by a vein, and by a plexus of nerves of the same name derived from the sympathetic. Dissec_ Dissection.—For the dissection of the superior mesenteric superior vessels and nerves, the great omentum and the transverse terfcT" colon are to be placed on the margin of the ribs, and oneSUPERIOR MESENTERIC VESSELS. 507 layer (anterior) of the mesentery is to be removed. Whilst tracing the branches of the artery to the small intestine, the student will meet with corresponding veins, and with offsets of the sympathetic nerves on the arteries. Some mesenteric glands and a few lacteal vessels will come into view at the same time. The branches from the right side of the vessel to the large intestine are next to be followed. After all the branches have been cleaned, the trunk of the artery should be traced back beneath the pancreas, and the plexus of nerves surrounding it should be defined. The superior mesenteric artery supplies branches to the Supe- small intestine beyond the duodenal part, and to half the senteric large intestine, viz. as far as the end of the transverse colon. ar eiy" Arising from the aorta near the diaphragm, the vessel is Courses directed downwards between the layers of the mesentery, tine in " where it forms an arch with the convexity to the left side, sentery. and terminates in offsets to the cascum and the end of the small intestine. At first the artery lies beneath the pancreas and the splenic vein; and as it descends to the Connec- mesentery it is placed in front of the duodenum and the left renal vein. This vessel is surrounded by the mesenteric plexus of nerves, and is accompanied by the vein of the same name. Branches.—Whilst the vessel is covered by the pancreas, and it gives a small branch to that body and the duodenum. Its es.anch" other branches are intestinal: those from the left or convex side of the vessel (rami intestinales) supply the jejunum and the ileum ; and those from the opposite side supply the colon, and are named colic arteries. The pancreatico-duodenal branch (inferior) is of small Pancre- size, and after giving twigs to the pancreas, extends from duo." left to right along the concavity of the duodenum, and anas- denaL tomoses with the other duodenal branches. The branches to the small intestine, viz. to the jejunum Branch- and the ileum, are about twelve in number, and pass from small the left side of the artery, between the layers of the mesen- tine, tery, to their destination. About two inches from their Number origin, or sooner, the branches bifurcate, and each resulting branch unites with a similar offset from the collateral •arteries, so as to form a series of arches. . From the con-^and ar- * vexity of those arches other branches take origin, which ment in " ° arr.hfis.508 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. divide and unite in the same way as before. This process is repeated four or five times between the origin and the dis- tribution of the arteries, but at each branching the size of Distri- the vessel diminishes. From the last set of arches, twigs on the are sent to the intestine ; these pass on both aspects of the gut* tube, and anastomose round it, supplying its structure. Arteries The branches to the large intestine are three in number, gut?rge ileo-colic, right colic, and middle colic arteries, ileocolic a- The ileo-colic artery arises from the right side of the branch mesenteric trunk ; it descends to the caecum, and divides into branches, that encircle the head of the colon, like the tube of the small intestine. A descending oifset is dis- ends on tributed to the lower part of the ileum, and to the crecum caecum. the vermiform appendix ; whilst an ascending offset supplies the beginning of the ascending colon, and anasto- moses with the right colic artery. Right b. The right colic artery is commonly an offset of the pre- branch ceding, instead of a separate branch from the trunk. Its ascincu course is to the right or ascending colon ; near this it coton. divides into an ascending and a descending piece, and anas- tomoses with the ileo-colic artery on the one side, and the middle colic on the other. This artery gives ramifications, to the ascending colon. Middle c. The middle colic branch arises from the upper part of branch the superior mesenteric artery, opposite the transverse meso- toStSrans- colon. Entering between the layers of that fold of the peri- coion. toneum, the vessel divides into two large diverging branches : — the right branch, anastomoses with the artery to the ascending colon, and the left inosculates on the descending colon with a branch (left colic) of the inferior mesenteric They artery. The intestinal twigs to the transverse colon are £ches supplied from these two divisions, but before entering the entering gut they are united in arches like those to the small in- intes- . tine. testme. Supe- The superior mesenteric vein commences in that part of senteric the intestinal tube to which the artery is distributed, and its vem" radicles unite into one trunk. Thus formed, the vein accom- panies the artery beneath the pancreas, and there joins the splenic vein to form the vena portas. Mesen. The mesenteric lymphatic glands are numerous between glands m the layers of the mesentery, and are lodged in the intervals509 INFERIOR MESENTERIC VESSELS. between the branches of the vessels: along the large intestine are a few other lymphatic glands, meso-colic, which receive the lymphatics of the large intestine. The lactiferous or tic* of chyliferous vessels of the small intestine, and the lymphatics *£|ft0'f of the part of the large intestine supplied by the superior mesenteric artery, pass through the mesenteric glands to tine, reach the thoracic duct. Dissection.— By drawing the small intestine over to the Dissec. right side, the dissector will perceive the inferior mesenteric inferior artery on the front of the aorta, a little above the bifurcation teric. of the vessel. The peritoneum should be removed with care from the vessel, and its branches should be traced outwards to the remaining half of the large intestine : a part of the artery enters the pelvis, but this will be afterwards dissected. On the artery and its branches is the inferior mesenteric plexus of nerves. The mesenteric vein is likewise to be followed upwards to its junction with the splenic, or with the superior mesenteric vein. On the aorta the dissector will meet with a plexus of nerves which is to be left un- injured. The inferior mesenteric artery supplies branches to the inferior part of the large intestine beyond the transverse colon, and teric . , . . . artery. communicating with the superior mesenteric, assists to main- tain the chain of anastomosis along the intestinal tube. This vessel is of smaller size than the superior mesenteric, and arises from the aorta from one to two inches above the bifurcation. At first the vessel descends on the Place of aorta, and then crosses the left common iliac artery in its course course to the pelvis, where it ends in branches to the rectum (superior hemorrhoidal). The following branches and are furnished by it to the descending colon and the sigmoid es?nch" flexure. The left colic artery ascends in front of the left kidney, Left and divides into ascending and descending branches for the branch supply of the descending colon. By the ascending part it descend, anastomoses with the middle colic branch of the superior colon, mesenteric artery. The sigmoid artery is distributed to the sigmoid flexure, sigmoid Passing almost transversely outwards, it divides into branches, that anastomose above with the preceding colic branch, and below with the hemorrhoidal. Here, as in the rest of to sig.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 510 moid the intestinal tube, arches are formed by the arteries destined flexure. _ _ \ . . J tor the supply ot the intestine. Branch The superior hemorrhoidal artery enters between the tum. " layers of the meso-rectum, and is distributed to the lower part of the great intestine : it will be described in the dis- section of the pelvis, inferior The inferior mesenteric vein begins in the part of the terfcen" great intestine to which its companion artery is distributed, 16 ' and ascends along the psoas muscle, away from the artery, to open into the splenic vein beneath the pancreas. Occa- sionally it joins the superior mesenteric vein. Veins of The mesenteric veins are without valves, and may be in- \vithout jected from the trunk to the branches like an artery. Lymph Lymphatic glands are found by the side of the descending glands c°l°n an(^ tne sigm°id flexure. The lymphatics from those parts, after passing through the glands, enter the left lumbar lymphatic glands, some Sympathetic Nerve. — The following plexuses of the 5feth"se8 sympathetic, derived from the solar plexus beneath the thetfc" stomach, are in connection with the vessels that are now viscera, dissected, viz. superior mesenteric, aortic, spermatic, inferior mesenteric, and hypogastric. The remaining parts of the sympathetic nerve in the abdomen will be subsequently referred to. Dissec- Dissection.— On the two mesenteric arteries the dissector aortic has already made out the plexuses of nerves that are dis- tributed to the intestinal tube beyond the duodenum : and it now remains to trace, on the aorta itself, the connecting nerves between the mesenteric plexuses. By taking the peritoneum from the aorta between the mesenteric vessels, the aortic plexus will appear: from the upper part of this plexus an offset is to be followed along the spermatic artery; this may be done, on the left side, where the vessel is partly laid bare. of hypo. By removing the serous membrane from the front of the plexus, sacrum, and following downwards, over the iliac arteries, the nerves from the aortic plexus and the lumbar ganglia, the dissector will arrive at the hypogastric plexus of the pelvis. Supe- The superior mesenteric plexus is a large offset on the nor me- 1 1 ° plexus0 mesen^eric artery and its branches, and is distributed to the511 AOETIC AND MESENTERIC PLEXUSES. same extent of the intestinal tube as the vessel supplies. The nerves closely surround the artery with a sheath, and £™. are at first covered by the pancreas. In the mesentery, ^mi^ne near the intestine, some of the nerves leave the arteries, and divide and communicate with others before entering the gut. The secondary plexuses are the same as the branches of its se- ' 1 t condary the artery, viz. intestinal nerves to the small intestine ; and piex- fr . uses. an ileo-colic, a right colic, and a middle colic plexus to the large intestine. The aortic plexus is a network of nerves, that covers the A,ortic * 7 plexus aorta below the superior mesenteric artery. Superiorly it is js^e- continuous with the solar plexus ; and inferiorly it ends on from each side in branches, that cross the common iliac artery, plexus, and enter the hypogastric plexus of the pelvis. From it an offsets, offset is furnished to the two visceral arteries of the aorta below the renal and superior mesenteric trunks, viz. to the spermatic and inferior mesenteric arteries. The aortic plexus is stronger on the sides than on the This L ° m plexus' front of the aorta, in consequence of its receiving accessory j^est^ branches from the lumbar ganglia, especially the left. At on sides the upper part the plexus seems to be derived from an offset, on each side of the aorta, which is connected with the solar and renal plexuses. The spermatic plexus is formed by an offset from both the sPer- ■*■■•■*■ J matic aortic and the renal plexus. The nerves from it run on the plexus, spermatic artery to the testicle: and in the cord they join other filaments on the vas deferens. In the female, the nerves on the spermatic (ovarian) ^Je- artery are supplied to the ovary and the uterus. The inferior mesenteric plexus surrounds the trunk and inferior branches of the artery of the same name, and is supplied to teric*1 the same part of the intestinal tube as the artery is dis- plexus* tributed to. This plexus is furnished from the left part of the aortic plexus ; and the nerves composing it are whiter and larger than in either of the preceding offsets of the sym- pathetic. Near the intestine (sigmoid flexure) the branching Nerves of the nerves, and the union of the contiguous twigs are well uke the i -t vessels. marked. The following secondary plexuses are named from the se- arteries they accompany, and are distributed like them to the plexuses.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 512 intestine, viz. the left colic, the sigmoid, and the superior hemorrhoidal plexus. Union On the intestinal tube the nerves of one plexus join those nerves of another. Thus the superior mesenteric joins by one end intes- the nerves to the duodenum, and by the other the nerves to tube. the large intestine from the inferior mesenteric plexus. And the inferior mesenteric plexus communicates below with branches to the rectum from the pelvic centre. Hypo. The hypogastric plexus, or the large prevertebral centre plexus, for the supply of sympathetic nerves to the viscera of the tSiona" pelvis? is situate in front of the upper part of the sacrum and beneath the peritoneum. It is developed more on each side than in the centre ; and the nerves, which are large and flat, have a plexiform arrangement, but without any ganglionic in it masses on them. By its upper part the plexus receives on plexus each side the termination of the aortic plexus ; and it is joined by some filaments from one or two of the upper sacral and ganglia. Inferiorly the plexus ends in two parts, right and offsets* left, the last being the largest, which are continued forwards to pelvic with the branches of the internal iliac artery to the pelvic viscera. , , plexuses and the viscera. Parts^ Connections of the Aorta and Yena Cava.—The con- aorta nections of the abdominal aorta and of the vena cava may cava. be next looked to, before the viscera are removed from the body. Dissec- Dissection. — The part of the abdominal aorta below the see origin of the superior mesenteric artery has been laid bare by the previous dissection. To see it higher up, it will be necessary to detach the great omentum from the stomach, without injuring the gastro-epiploic artery, and after raising the stomach and the spleen, to remove the peritoneum from the surface of the pancreas. A short arterial trunk (coeliac axis) above the pancreas is not to be cleaned now, otherwise the nerves about it would be destroyed. The vena cava will be dissected at the same time as the aorta. Aorta The aorta enters the abdomen between the pillars of the middle diaphragm, and divides into iliac arteries opposite the left ° Spme' side of the fourth lumbar vertebra. At the diaphragm the * vessel occupies the middle line of the spine, but it gradually Parts inclines to the left as it descends. In the abdomen the aorta around. is covered at first by the solar plexus, and by the pancreas513 CONNECTIONS OF THE DUODENUM AND PANCREAS. and the splenic vein; still lower (beyond the superior me- senteric artery) by the duodenum, and the left renal vein; and thence to its termination by the peritoneum and the aortic plexus. The vessel lies on the lumbar vertebras; and to its right side is the vena cava. Its branches are furnished Branch- & . es. to the viscera and the wall of the abdomen, but these will be enumerated farther on. The vena cava inferior commences on the right side of Vena J ° cava ; the fifth lumbar vertebrae by the union of the common iliac ext-ent and con- Veins, and reaches from that spot to the heart. In the abdo- nections; men this venous trunk is placed on the right side of the vertebral column ; and it and the aorta are concealed by the is by the same parts. As high as the crus of the diaphragm it is close the . aorta, to the aorta, but above that spot it ascends on the right of the crus, and is imbedded in the posterior part of the liver, except Lastly, it leaves the abdomen by an aperture in the ten- dinous part of the diaphragm, on the right of the aortic opening. The vena cava is joined by some branches from Branch, the abdominal viscera, and by others corresponding to the branches of the aorta that are supplied to the parietes of the abdomen. CONNECTIONS OF THE DUODENUM AND PANCREAS. Directions. — The situation, and the connections of the duodenum and pancreas should be next looked to. , Dissection. — To see satisfactorily the duodenum and the Remove • 'lit 111 intestine pancreas, the intestinal tube, beyond the duodenum, is to be removed in the following way:—one ligature is to be placed oh the upper part of the jejunum, another on the lower end of the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and the gut is to be cut through at the points at which it is tied. The detached piece of the intestinal tube can be taken away by cutting through the vessels and the peritoneum that connect it to the wall of the abdomen; after it has been separated, it is to be set aside for examination whilst the body is turned. To make the viscera fit for examination, the studentto see the duo- Should moderately inflate the stomach and duodenum from denum, the cut extremity of the latter; and whilst cleaning them, he is to be careful of the vessels and nerves. On turning upwards the stomach he will be able to trace the pancreas and Pan- r creas. L L514 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. from the spleen on the one hand to the duodenum on the other; and on raising the duodenum, to find the common bile duct between it and the head of the pancreas. Extent Duodenum.—The first part of the small intestine, or the of duo- r ' denum; duodenum, begins at the small end of the stomach, and, crossing the spinal column, ends on the left side of the course secon(j lumbar vertebra. It makes a curve around the head and situ- ation. 0f the pancreas, and occupies the right hypochondriac, right lumbar, and umbilical regions of the abdomen : its peritoneal covering is incomplete and peculiar (p. 505.). From its Son" winding course around the pancreas it is divided into three parts — superior transverse, vertical, and inferior transverse. First The superior transverse part is free and moveable, like part is shortest, the stomach; it measures about two inches in length, and is and is ° move, directed from the pylorus to the neck of the gall bladder, ascending slightly in its progress from one point to another. In front it is overlapped by the liver, as well as by the gall bladder when this is distended; and behind it are the bile duct and the vena porta?. Second The vertical part is fixed almost immoveably by the peri- fixed," toneum and the pancreas. It is nearly three inches in length, and descends from the gall bladder as far as the third lumbar vertebra. Superficial to this part is the right bend and rests of the colon, and beneath it are the kidney and its vessels; kidney. wrhilst on its inner side is the head of the pancreas, with the common bile duct. The ducts of the pancreas and liver pour their contents into this piece of the duodenum. The The inferior transverse part is the longest of the three, partis and is continued across the spinal column to end in the este,lonS"jejunal portion of the small intestine. As it crosses the and is spine, it ascends from the third to the second lumbar ver- abie. tebra, and corresponds to the attachment of the transverse meso-colic fold of the peritoneum, being between its layers; it has the following connections with the parts around: — Parts In front of it are the superior mesenteric vessels, with their around it. plexus of nerves ; beneath it lie the aorta and the vena cava, , with the pillars of the diaphragm, and sometimes the left renal vein is between it and the aorta ; above it is the pancreas. • Form Pancreas. — The pancreas is situate behind the stomach, and situ- A . . ation of and has numerous and complicated connections. Of an515 CHYLO-POIETIC VESSELS. elongated form, it extends across the spine from the spleen the pan- to the duodenum, and occupies the left hypochondriac, the umbilical, and the right lumbar region of the abdomen. The gland is covered anteriorly by the ascending layer ofIts c.on- ° J J o j nections the transverse meso-colon, and is in contact posteriorly withbyt.he 7 , surfaces, the aorta, the vena cava, and the pillars of the diaphragm; it likewise conceals the splenic vein and the commencement of the vena portse. Projecting above the upper border, near borders, the centre, is the arterial trunk of the cceliac axis; to the left of that vessel, along the same border, is the splenic artery, whilst to the right of it are the hepatic artery and the first part of the duodenum. At the lower border, the superior mesenteric vessels emerge opposite the cceliac axis; to the right of that spot is the third part of the duode- num, and to the left of it the inferior mesenteric, ascending to join the splenic vein. The left end or the tail of the and pancreas touches the spleen, and is over the left kidney; ties?1™" and the right extremity, or the head of the gland, is received into the concavity of the duodenum, the two being partly separated behind by the common bile duct, and in front by the pancreatico-duodenal artery. VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE CHYLO-POIETIC VISCERA. A short branch from the aorta, viz. the cceliac axis, fur- vessels nishes arteries to the stomach, duodenum, liver, pancreas, nefves and spleen; this subdivides into three chief branches, coro- pSS0" nary, hepatic, and splenic, whose destination is expressed by viscera* their names. The veins corresponding to those vessels are collected into one trunk — the vena portae; and the nerves are supplied from the vagus and the sympathetic trunks. Dissection. — The vessels have been in part laid bare by How to the previous dissection, and the preparation of them will be tSc completed by the removal of the cellular membrane and, the axis peritoneum from each. Before beginning this task the student should take care that the liver is well raised ; and whilst completing it he should spare the plexuses of nerves that surround the vessels. Starting from the cceliac axis, and its he may first follow to the left side the small coronary artery, brandi- and clear its branches to the oesophagus and the stomach.es' Next the hepatic artery, with the vena portal and the bile516 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. duct, may be traced to the liver and the gall bladder, and a considerable branch of it is to be pursued, beneath the py- lorus, to the stomach, duodenum, and pancreas. Lastly, the splenic artery, that lies along the upper border of the pan- creas, is to be cleaned, and its branches to the pancreas, stomach, and spleen defined. The veins will be dissected for the most part with the arteries, but the origin of the vena portas is to be made out beneath the pancreas. Jhis; The cosliac axis is the first visceral branch of the abdo- trunk the three m^na^ aorta> an^ arises from that vessel between the pillars fonow- of the diaphragm. It is a short thick trunk, about half an esm~h" *ncn l°n£> which projects above the upper border of the pancreas, and is surrounded by the nerves of the solar plexus of the sympathetic. Its branches — coronary, hepatic, and splenic, — radiate from the trunk (whence the name axis) to their distribution to the viscera in the upper part of the ab.domen. Coro. \t 1^ coronary artery is the smallest of the three nary, & & gwin branches, and passes between the layers of the little omen- tum to the left orifice of the stomach. At that spot it fur- nishes some oesophageal branches, and then turns from left to right, along the upper border of the stomach, to anastomose with a branch (pyloric) from the hepatic artery. Its offsets to the oesophagus and the stomach are thus disposed of: — offsets to a. The oesophageal branches ascend on the gullet through phagus the opening in the diaphragm, and after supplying that tube, anastomose on it with branches from the thoracic aorta, and to b. The gastric branches are given to both sides of the mach stomach as the artery lies along it, and those to the left end communicate with twigs (vasa brevia) of the splenic artery. Splenic 2. The splenic artery is the largest branch of the coeliac artery axis in the adult. It is a tortuous artery, and runs almost horizontally to the left, along the upper border of the pan- creas, to the spleen. Near this body it divides into its supplies terminal branches (splenic), which are about six in number spleen, (from four to ten), and enter the substance of the spleen by the concave surface towards the stomach. In its course the vessel is accompanied by the splenic vein, which is below it, and it distributes branches to the pancreas and the stomach. the pan- a. Pancreatic branches, — Numerous small branches are creas by517 BRANCHES OF THE CCELIAC AXIS. supplied to the gland as the artery lies along it: and one of large these, art pancreatica magna, arises near the left end of the small gland, and runs to the right, with the duct, in the substance wl&s' of the viscus. b. The branches for the stomach arise from the divisions and the of the artery near the spleen. Some of these, vasa brevia, byvasa brevia turn upwards to the left end of the stomach, between or be- neath the gastro-splenic omentum, and ramify in the coats of that organ. Another branch, art. gastro-epiploica sinis- and ieft tra, which is larger than the others, turns to the right, along epiploic, the great curvature of the stomach, between the layers of the great omentum, and inosculates with the right gastro- epiploic branch of the hepatic artery. This artery distri- butes twigs to both surfaces of the stomach, as well as be- tween the pieces of peritoneum forming the great omentum. 3. The hepatic artery is the largest, in the fetus, of the Hepatic three branches into which the coeliac axis divides; but in the adult it is intermediate in size between the other two, and is encircled by the largest plexus of nerves. In its course to courses the liver, the vessel is first bent to the right towards the uverf small end of the stomach, where it supplies its principal branches (superior pyloric and gastro-epiploic). It then ascends between the layers of the little omentum, on the left side of the bile duct and the vena portae, and divides in which - ^ hit. i • it ends, near the transverse hssure oi the liver into two large termi- nal arteries — the right and left hepatic. Its branches are and sup- distributed not only to the liver, but freely to the stomach, phes the duodenum, and the pancreas. a. The superior pyloric branch descends to the upper offsets to border of the stomach, and running from right to left anas- mach. tomoses with the coronary artery; it distributes small arterial twigs on both the anterior and the posterior aspect of the stomach. b. The right gastro-epiploic branch* (art. gast. epiploica Branch- dextra) is a trunk of considerable size, which descends be- stomach, neath the duodenum near the pylorus, then turns from right duode- to left along the great curvature of the stomach, between the viz.— pieces of the great omentum, and inosculates with the left * Frequently this artery is named gastro-duodenal as far as to the spot where it gives off the branch to the duodenum and pancreas. %518 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. gastroepiploic branch of the splenic artery. On the sur- faces of the stomach, some branches are given upwards, and others downwards between the layers of the omentum. It furnishes the following branches to the stomach, and the pan- creas and the duodenum : — inferior Small inferior pyloric branches arise from it and end in the small pyloric, . „ i extremity ot the stomach. and pan- The pancreatico-duodenal branch (superior) leaves the trunk duode-0" opposite the lower border of the duodenum, and runs along the nal. curve of that intestine, lying between it and the pancreas ; it anas- tomoses below with the pancreatico-duodenal branch (inferior) of the superior mesenteric artery (p. 507.). Both the duodenum and the pancreas receive offsets from this vessel. On the posterior aspect of these viscera is another small artery with a similar posi- tion and distribution. Branch- c. The hepatic branches sink into the liver at the trans- es to the _ .. . . liver; verse fissure, and ramify in its substance, one for The right branch is divided when about to enter the liver lobVand* at the right end of the transverse fissure, and supplies the bladder, following small artery to the gall bladder. The cystic artery, on reaching the neck of the gall bladder, divides into two twigs that ramify on the opposite surfaces, and are distri- buted to the coats, and one The left branch is smaller than the other, and enters the left iobe^liver at the left end of the transverse fissure. A branch to the Spigelian lobe of the liver arises from this division of the artery. Three V Veins.—The veins of the viscera of this part of the abdo- veins, £*' 1.1.1 • i viz.- men are three in number, viz. the superior coronary, the splenic, and the portal vein, coronary The superior coronary vein lies along the upper border of from thej , . • -iiir» stomach; the stomach. It begins in the oesophagus and the leit part of the stomach, and joins the vena portae at the pylorus, splenic The splenic vein is of large size, and is formed by the spleen!16 union of branches that issue from the spleen. It takes much the same course as the artery, but is lower than it, and runs beneath the pancreas to the front of the vena cava, where it joins the superior mesenteric vein to form the vena portae. stomach, Between its origin and termination it receives branches creas. corresponding to the following arteries: vasa brevia, left gastroepiploic, and pancreatic; it is also joined by the infe- rior mesenteric vein about the middle of its length.519 VENA PORT^E AND BILE DUCTS. The vena porta conveys to the liver the blood that has vena been circulated through the following chylo-poietic viscera, resem- , . bles an viz. the alimentary canal, the pancreas, and the spleen. 1 his artery in vein commences by roots in the viscera above mentioned, branch. ing. like any other vein; but it is deficient in valves, and ramifies through the structure of the liver in the same manner as an artery. Its radicles communicate here and there on the in- testinal tube with small systemic veins, more particularly on the rectum. The vein results from the union of the splenic and supe- its ori- gin, rior mesenteric veins (p. 508.) ; and its origin is placed in front of the vena cava, but beneath the pancreas and about two inches from the right end. This vessel is about four ien§th, inches long, and is directed upwards in the small omentum, and ter- behind the bile duct and the hepatic artery, to the transverse don?" fissure of the liver, where it divides into a right and a left branch. In its course it is joined by the coronary or gastric vein? Acces- and by the cystic vein near the liver. branch- The right branch is sometimes joined by the cystic vein, T'ermi_ and enters the transverse fissure to ramify in the liver. branch- The left branch is distributed to the left part of the liver, j^feft. and gives a small branch to the Spigelian lobe of that viscus. Bile Ducts.—Two ducts issue at the transverse fissure common of the liver, one from each lobe, and unite to form the com- duct; mon hepatic duct: the excretory tube, thus formed, is an how inch and a half long. Below the length mentioned the ductr ' . receives that of the gall bladder, and the union of the two forms the common bile duct. The common bile duct (ductus communis choledochus), Common which is formed as above said, is about three inches long: it descends almost vertically beneath the upper transverse length piece of the duodenum, then between the pancreas and course, the vertical piece of the duodenum, and opens into this part of the intestine at the inner side, and above the middle. Before piercing the coats of the intestine, it is commonly Termi. joined by the pancreatic duct, but the two may enter the natlon- duodenum separately. Whilst in the small omentum, the duct lies to the right of the hepatic artery, and somewhat before the portal vein. L L 4DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 520 SYMPATHETIC AND VAGUS NERVES. General Sympathetic Nerve.—In the abdomen the sympathetic Sfin" nerve consists, as in the thorax, of a gangliated cord on each domen" side of the vertebral column ; and of prevertebral centres or plexuses, which furnish branches to the viscera. Two Two prevertebral plexuses are found in the abdomen, centres, One of these is the solar or epigastric plexus, which is placed behind the stomach, and supplies nerves to all the viscera and by- above the cavity of the pelvis. The other, or the hypogas- tric^" trie plexus, is situate in the pelvis, and distributes nerves to the pelvic viscera. The offsets or the secondary plexuses of these centres accompany the bloodvessels to their destina- tion. Part to The visceral part of the sympathetic nerve that remains in3 the11 to be seen, consists of the great epigastric centre, viz. the men' semilunar ganglia and the solar plexus, with their offsets. How to Dissection, — To denude the great prevertebral centre soiiarare above mentioned, the following dissection is to be made: — plexus. ^fter ^e a«r jiag keen je£ out 0f stomach and the duo- denum, the portal vein, the common bile duct, and the gas- troepiploic artery are to be cut through behind the pylo- rus ; and the stomach, the duodenum, and the pancreas are to be drawn over to the left side. On raising the liver, and taking away some cellular tissue, the vena cava appears : the vein is to be cut across above the junction of the renal vein with it, and the lower end is to be drawn down with hooks, semi* Beneath the vein the dissector will find the large reddish gangHa. semilunar ganglion of the right side. From its inner part he should trace the numerous nerves which form the solar plexus around the coeliac and superior mesenteric arteries; and should unravel the offsets around those arteries, with their secondary plexuses. From the outer part of the gan- glion branches are to be traced to the kidney, the supra-renal body, and the diaphragmatic arteries. At its upper part the student may observe the large splanchnic nerve; and deeper than it, one or two other smaller splanchnic nerves, that throw themselves into the solar and renal plexuses. Mixed up with the nerves of the solar plexus are numerousSYMPATHETIC AND VAGUS NERVES. 521 lymphatic glands and a dense cellular membrane, which re- quire to be removed with care. The student should then trace the ending of the pneumo- Follow gastric nerves on the stomach. The left nerve will be found ingof the in front near the upper border ; and the right nerve will be nervls. seen at a corresponding point on the opposite aspect. Branches are to be traced from the right nerve to the plexus of the sympathetic by the side of the coeliac axis, and from the left to the hepatic plexus. The epigastric or solar plexus is the largest of the solar prevertebral plexuses of the sympathetic, and furnishesp!exus; nerves to all the viscera of the abdomen above the pelvis. It is a large network of nerves and ganglia, which lies in appear. front of the aorta and the pillars of the diaphragm, and ex- ance' tends from the supra-renal capsule of one side to that of the other. It surrounds the coeliac axis and the. superior me- extent; senteric artery, and extends downwards to the pancreas. The plexus is connected on each side with the large and small splanchnic nerves, and it is joined also by some twigs from the right pneumogastric nerve. Large offsets are fur- gives nished to the different viscera along the vessels. on^biood The semilunar ganglia of the solar plexus, one on each g^ls* side, are the largest ganglia in the body. Each is situate at j^grlia. the upper and outer part of the plexus, close to the supra- renal capsule, and on the side of the pillar of the diaphragm. The ganglion of the right side is beneath the vena cava. situa- Irregular in shape, the mass is sometimes oval, and at other tlon; ... . form. times divided into smaller ganglia. From the outer side nerves are directed to the kidney and the supra-renal cap- Nerves sule, and to the inner side the cords of the solar plexus are ed™uh~ connected. By the upper end it is joined by the greateach* splanchnic nerve. Offsets of the plexus. — The nerves supplied to the viscera several are conveyed on the branches of the aorta, forming plexuses uSets °f around them; thus there are coeliac, mesenteric, renal, sper- plexus,j matic, and other plexuses. The diaphragmatic artery has also a Separate plexus on it. Diaphragmatic plexus.—The, nerves that form this plexus piexus come from the upper and outer part of the semilunar dL-he ganglion. They are placed at first on the phrenic artery, phrdgm but they soon leave it to enter the substance of the diaphragm.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 522 A communication takes place between the phrenic nerve of the cervical plexus and these branches of the sympathetic, has a On the under surface of the diaphragm is a small ganglion where ganglion . , . . on right this offset of the plexus joins the spinal nerve, and from it filaments are supplied to the vena cava and the supra-renal body. The ganglion is absent on the left side. — (Swan). supra- The supra-renal nerves are very large and numerous, in renal f . . nerves, comparison with the mass supplied, and are directed almost horizontally outwards to the supra-renal body, which they enter at the upper part. One of the splanchnic nerves com- municates with this plexus. Renal The renal plexus is derived from the semilunar ganglion, and the outer part of the solar plexus, and it is further joined by one of the two smallest splanchnic nerves. The nerves surround the renal artery, having small ganglia on them, and enter the kidney with the vessels. An offset is sperm- given from the renal nerves to the spermatic plexus (p. 511.). atic. rpjie ccenac piexu§ js a direct continuation forwards of the Coeliac ■* plexus solar plexus around the artery named coeliac axis. It is further joined by the small splanchnic nerve on each side, and by an offset from the right pneumogastric nerve. The divides plexus surrounds the artery, and divides, like it, into three like the 1 artery, parts—coronary, splenic, and hepatic. into co- a. The coronary plexus accompanies the coronary artery to the ronary Upper border of the stomach which it supplies. It communicates with the left vagus nerve, and with the sympathetic on the pyloric. artery. splenic, , b. The splenic piexus surrounds the splenic artery, and is con- ducted by it to the substance of the spleen. It furnishes offsets, like the artery, to the pancreas, and other nerves to the stomach along the left gastro-epiploic artery. This plexus is joined by twigs from the left semilunar ganglion, and by an offset from the right pneumogastric nerve, and c. The hepatic plexus is continued on the vena porta?, the hepatic hepatic. arj.ery^ an(j kjie duct to the transverse fissure of the liver, where it enters the liver and ramifies on the vessels. Whilst ascending in the small omentum the plexus is joined on the left side by offsets from the left vagus and phrenic nerves. — (Swan.) Theiast Secondary plexuses are furnished around the branches of the second- hepatic artery, which have the same name and distribution as the ary' vessels. The following are these plexuses : — pyloric, A pyloric plexus accompanies the pyloric artery to the upper gastro- border of the stomach. There are two other plexuses—gastro- duode- AVAGUS AND SPLANCHNIC NERVES. 523 epiploic (right) and pancreatico-duodenal, corresponding to the nai, branches of the artery : the former meets nerves from the splenic pancn^' plexus, and the latter communicates with the superior mesenteric atlc' plexus on the end of the duodenum. A cystic plexus is distributed and^ to the gall bladder with its artery. The remaining offsets of the solar plexus, viz. superior and inferior mesenteric, aortic, and spermatic, have been already described (page 510.) ; but the derivation of the su- perior mesenteric and aortic plexuses from the epigastric centre can now be seen. Ending of the splanchnic nerves.— The large nerve per- Ending forates the crus of the diaphragm, and generally ends alto- spianch- gether in the semilunar ganglion, but it may give filaments nerve, to the renal plexus and the supra-renal body. The small small, nerve comes through the same opening in the diaphragm as the preceding, and ends in the cceliac plexus; but it enters the renal plexus if the smallest splanchnic nerve is absent. The smallest nerve, after piercing the diaphragm, joins the and smallest. renal plexus. Ending of the vagus nerve.—In the abdomen the pueumo- Ending gastric nerves are to be followed to their distribution in the vagus j stomach. The left divides into branches, that extend over the front and along the small curvature of the stomach ; these join the sympathetic, and give offsets to the hepatic plexus. The right nerve is distributed to the posterior surface of the and stomach near the upper border, and communicates with the nght* cceliac and the splenic plexus. Dissection. — The viscera are now to be removed from the Prepare abdomen in order that the body may be turned for the dis- ing the section of the back, and the other parts. The stomach and remov. the spleen with the duodenum and the pancreas are to be vlfcera. taken away by cutting through the oesophagus near the diaphragm, and dividing the vessels and nerves they receive. The liver is also to be removed by cutting across its ligaments, and dividing the vena cava between its posterior border and the diaphragm. At the same time the right kidney is to be taken out with its supra-renal body ; and lastly the dissector should remove the left testicle by cutting through the cord. Directions. — Supposing the body now to be turned for Direc- rr ° J tions lor the dissection of the back, and to lie with the face downwards the dis- sector.524 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. foi\ the usual time, the dissector can first examine the dispo- sition of the fascia lumborum, which is described in the Dis- section op the Back, p. 402. The rest of the time he should occupy in examining the form and structure of the viscera, as in the following section. Section IV. ANATOMY OF THE VISCERA OF THE ABDOMEN. THE STOMACH. Defini- The stomach is the dilated part of the alimentary tube be- tion. A ... tween the oesophagus and the small intestine, into which the food is received to be changed into chyme. Separate Dissection, — To see the form of the stomach this viscus up the°w must be blown up moderately and the surface cleaned ; but ' previously, the spleen is to be detached and the duodenum cut through near the pylorus. Form, Form and Divisions. — The stomach is somewhat conical in form, with the base or wider part turned to the left, and direc- the apex to the right side ; and it is directed obliquely across size' the abdomen. Its size varies much in different bodies, and is sometimes much diminished by a constriction in the centre : when it is moderately distended, it is about twelve inches divi. long and four wide. This viscus presents for examination sions. twQ en(jSj two orifiCes, two surfaces, and two borders or curves. Left end Extremities.—The left end or tuberosity (fundus ventri- culi) is the largest part of the stomach, and projects about three inches to the left of the cesophagean opening. The j and right right or pyloric end is much smaller than the other, is cylin- drical, and forms the apex of the cone, to which the stomach is likened. cardiac Openings. — The left opening (cardiac), which communi- cates with the oesophagus, is at the highest part of the | stomach, and is funnel-shaped towards the cavity of the andpy- organ. The right or inferior orifice (pylorus) opens into I open- the duodenum, and is guarded internally by a valve: at the last*has same sPot tne stomach is slightly constricted externally, I a vaive. wnere a firm circular ring may be felt.525 STRUCTURE OF THE STOMACH. Surfaces, — The surfaces are somewhat flattened when Surfaces the stomach is empty, but rounded when it is distended, or flat. The parts in contact with the sides have been referred to (p. 496.). Borders. — The upper border, or small curve of the uPPer 1 1 7 # border; stomach, is concave towards the left opening, but convex at the opposite end : and the lower border, or large curve, is lower , border, convex, except near the right end, where it is concave:—the concavity of the one border corresponds to the convexity of differ- ence in the other. An arterial arch and a fold of peritoneum (omen- outline, turn) extend along each border. Structure.—In the wall of the stomach are found four Four lavers or coats, viz. a serous, a muscular, a cellular or are in , -i . -i i the sto- fibrous, and a mucous; together with vessels, nerves, and mach. lymphatics. 1. Serous coat — The peritoneum gives a covering to the ^hese-^ stomach, and is adherent to the surface except at the margins, is thin 7 m r ° and ad- where an interval exists corresponding to the attachment of herent. the small and the large omentum. In this space are con- tained the vessels, nerves, and lymphatics of the stomach surrounded by cellular membrane. During distension of the stomach, the space above mentioned is destroyed. 2. The muscular coat will be laid bare by the removal of The x muscu- the serous covering. It consists oi three sets of muscular iar coat is made fibres, viz. longitudinal, circular, and oblique, which lie from up of without inwards in the order mentioned: the fibres are un- striped. a. The longitudinal fibres are derived from those of the longitu- oesophagus; they spread over the surfaces, without entirely dina1' covering them, and are continued onwards to the pylorus and the small intestine. These fibres are most marked along the borders, particularly the smaller one; and at the pylorus they are much stronger than in the centre of the stomach. b. The circular fibres form the middle stratum of the mus- circular, cular coat, and will be best seen by removing the longitu- dinal fibres, near the pylorus. They reach from the cardiac to the pyloric end of the stomach; but at the latter part they are most numerous and strongest, and form a firm ring around the pyloric opening. c. The oblique fibres are continuous with the circular or and ob- deep layer of fibres of the oesophagus, and form only part of fibres.526 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. a layer in the gastric wall. On the left of the cardiac orifice they are seen to arch over the great end of the stomach, and then to spread out on the anterior and posterior surfaces, gradually disappearing on them. The eel- 3. Fibrous or submucous coat.—By removing the mus- lular J ° coat is cular layer over a small spot, the cellular or fibrous coat will thin, but J . 1 fi™. appear as a white shining stratum. Formed of fine areolar tissue, this coat gives strength to the stomach, and serves as a bed in which the vessels and nerves ramify before their final distribution to the mucous coat. If a small opening is made in this membrane, the mucous coat projects through it when the stomach is distended with air. Mucous i 4. The mucous coat will come into view on cutting open coat; ° 1 the stomach, but the appearances about to be described can be seen only in a recent stomach, feel, This coat is a thickish layer, smooth and soft to the touch, which, in the natural and healthy condition, is found colour, of a pale rose colour soon after death. In infancy the na- tural redness is greater than in childhood or in old age ; and in the empty state of the stomach the membrane is less vas- foids, cular than during digestion. When the stomach is con- tracted, the membrane is thrown into numerous wavy lines or rugce, which are longitudinal along the great curve, thick, towards the pylorus. The thickness of the mucous membrane neSs' is greatest near the pylorus ; and at that spot it forms a fold, opposite the muscular ring, which assists in closing the open- disposi- ing. If this membrane and its submucous layer are removed pylorus, from the pyloric part of the stomach, the ring of muscular fibres (sphincter of the pylorus) will be more perfectly seen. On the Microscopic structure of the mucous membrane. — With are pits the aid of a lens the surface of the mucous membrane, when veoiij well washed, will be seen to be marked all over by shallow their depressions or alveoli, which measure from -g-J-^th to i^th £lze' of an inch across: these depressions are occupied by the shape, apertures of minute tubes. Generally hexagonal or polygonal in outline, the hollows become larger and more elongated and ap- towards the small end of the stomach. Near the pylorus, ance~ too, the margins of the alveoli project, and are irregular, so pyTorus. as to resemble rudimentary villi. The By means of a thin section under the microscope, the made up membrane is seen to be formed almost altogether of minute527 STRUCTURE OF THE SMALL GUT. vertical tubes that lie side by side^ and project into the sub- of tubes mucous cellular tissue. Measuring from -J^th. to -^th °f an size : inch in length, the tubes are closed at the deep end ; but they open on the surface of the stomach both in the alveoli, and in the inter-alveolar spaces. For the most part they are mostly straight, but towards the pylorus they become longer, and with^ somewhat sacculated at the deep extremity. Their interior deep is lined by columnar epithelium, which becomes spheroidal in lined by the bottom of the tube ; and filling them is a colourless fluid, bum; . , ~. i contain which contains a granular material. fluid. Over the surface of the mucous membrane small lentiform Fom- | follicles are scattered, which have a depression in the centre, and correspond to the solitary follicles in the intestine. These are in greatest number near the pyloric end of the stomach, and are most marked in young children. A columnar epithelium covers the surface of the mucous Epithe. membrane, and enters the small tubes, as before mentioned, venng. Blood-vessels and nerves of the stomach. — The different arteries Arteries, of the stomach, after supplying the muscular coat, ramify in the submucous cellular tissue, and terminate in the mucous coat. From that anastomosis in the submucous stratum, small offsets are continued on the tubes to the inner surface of the mucous mem- brane, where they form a net-work. The veins begin in the veins, mucous coat, receive branches from the muscular coat, and deliver their blood into the portal system. Two layers of lymphatics, super- lymph- ficial and deep, are found in the stomach. The nerves are derived andS' from the pneumogastric and sympathetic, as before said, p. 523. nerves- SMALL INTESTINE. The three parts into which the small intestine is divided, charac- viz. duodenum, jejunum, and ileum, have the followingters* differences in their characters : — The duodenum measures about as much as the breadth of Length twelve fingers (about ten inches), and is more fixed than the edness." rest of the intestinal tube. It is wider in capacity than width either the jejunum or the ileum, and its muscular coat is thick- also thicker. Into it the common bile duct and the pancre- ™**'tg atic duct pour their contents. entering The jejunum and the ileum together are about twenty feet Length, long, and are connected to the mesentery by one border. There is not any perceptible difference between the termi-528 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Division nation of the one and the commencement of the other, but trary. two fifths of the length are assigned to the jejunum, and Differ, three fifths to the ileum. At the ends, however, a marked the ends, difference may be observed; for the upper part of the jejunum is thicker and more vascular than the lower part of the ileum, and its width is also greater, wail has Structure. — In the small intestine the wall is formed strata as by the same number of layers as in the stomach, viz. serous, the sto- J __ _ _ J _ , , , ' mach. muscular, cellular, and mucous; and these have the same position from within outwards. The different structures are to be examined on the duodenum ; and on pieces taken from the upper part of the jejunum, from the lower end of the ileum, and from the middle of the small intestine. After the pieces of intestine have been cut off, they are to be dis- tended with air. Serous i. The serous coat is closely connected with the subjacent muscular layer. To the greater part of the small intestine (jejunum and ileum) it furnishes a covering, except at the likethat attached part where the vessels enter: at this spot a space stomach, exists, resembling that at the borders of the stomach, where the peritoneum is reflected off to form the mesentery. The except peritoneum surrounds the duodenum only partly; this pecu- duode- Harity has been described at p. 505. num. J A Muscu- 2. The muscular coat is constructed of two sets of fibres, isfonn- a superficial or longitudinal, and a deep or circular. The ed by a flares are *n colour> an(J are unstriped. longitu- a' The longitudinal fibres will be seen only by a careful dlnal removal of the peritoneum, for they are generally taken away with that membrane. They form a thin layer, which is most marked at the free border of the gut. and a b. The circular fibres are much more distinct than the layer, others, and give the chief strength to the muscular coat : they do not appear to form complete rings around the tube of the intestine. Cellular 3. The cellular coat has the same position, with respect thatinke to other parts, and the same use as the corresponding layer stomach. -n ^e stomach. Dissect Dissection. — On the removal of a part of the muscular coatUlar stratum from the jejunum or the ileum, this submucous cellular layer will come into view. Glands In the upper part of the duodenum the student is to seekVALVULE CONNIVENTES. some small compound glands, — those of Brunner, which are of Bmn- imbedded in the submucous tissue. They lie beneath the mucous membrane, and will be seen shining through the cel- lular coat, when the muscular coat has been taken away. A niece of intestine may be opened and washed, to show and 1 j l mucous the mucous coat; but the gut should be cut along the line of coat; attachment of the mesentery, so as to avoid Peyer's glands on the opposite side. 4. Mucous coat. — The lining membrane of the small in- testine is thicker and more vascular at the beginning than thi<*- ° ° ness, at the ending of the tube, and is also marked by numerous prominent folds (valvular conniventes). The surface of the folds; membrane is soft, and is covered with small points (villi). Occupying the substance of the mucous coat are numerous and VJ & . . villous glands; and covering the whole is a columnar epithelium. surface. The valvulce conniventes (valves of Kerkring) are perma- Folds or v m . valves; nent folds of the mucous membrane, which are arranged cir- arrange-- . . . ment, cularly, one after another, along the intestine, and project into the alimentary mass. Crescentic in form, they extend length, round the intestine for half or two thirds of its circle, and some end in bifurcated extremities. Larger and smaller size and depth ; folds are met with, sometimes alternating ; and the larger ones are about two inches long, with two thirds of an inch in depth towards the centre. Each valve is formed of a how doubling of the mucous membrane, which encloses cellular membrane and vessels between the layers., The valves begin in the duodenum, one or two inches Extent ° t on the beyond the pylorus, and are continued in regular succession »»tes- to the middle of the jejunum; but beyond that point they become smaller, and more distant one from another, and finally disappear about the middle of the ileum, having pre- viously become irregular and rudimentary. The valvulse are largest and most regular beyond, and not far from the opening of the bile duct. The aperture of the common bile and pancreatic ducts is Opening a narrow orifice, from three to four inches from the pylorus, duct; and is situate in a small prominence on the mucous mem- where A situate. brane of the duodenum, at the inner and posterior part of the intestine. A probe passed into the bile duct will show the obliquity of the course (half an inch) through the wall M MDISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 530 some- of the intestine. Sometimes the pancreatic duct opens by a double, distinct orifice. Parts to Microscopic structure of the mucous membrane.—With in the the use of the microscope, and with fresh pieces of intestine, tine." the student will be able to make out the nature of the villi, the several glandular structures, and the epithelium. The vim Villi.—When the mucus is washed away from a piece of thesur- the lower part of the duodenum, and this is examined in face • water, the mucous membrane will be found to be studded over very thickly with small projections, which give it the appearance of velvet. Existing along the whole of the small intestine, both on the valves and between them, these their bodies are irregular in form, some being triangular, others size, ' conical or cylindrical with a large end. Their length is from one fourth to one third of a line. They are best and marked where the valvulae conniventes are largest; there number. ^q\y numher js estimated at 50 to 90 in a square line, but in the lower end of the ileum at only 40 to 70 in the same extent of the intestine.—Krause. eompo- Each villus is an extension of the mucous coat, which sltlon- contains a capillary net-work of arteries, mostly a single vein, and lacteal vessels. The entire surface of each is invested with columnar epithelium, several Glands.— In the glandular apparatus of the small intes- giands!f tine are included the crypts of Lieberkuhn, some solitary glands, and Peyer's and Brunner's glands, simple The crypts of Lieberkuhn are minute simple tubes, similar inbtheas to those in the stomach, though not so closely aggregated, but™ o?' and are found throughout the small intestine. These tubes so close; 0pen on the surface of the mucous membrane, by small orifices, between the villi and around the larger glands; but at the opposite end they are closed, and project into the sub- their mucous cellular layer. Their length is from ^th to ^th of size a line, and their diameter is ^th of a line. They are filled and with a fluid that contains granules, and are lined by a contents. . . - ,. columnar epithelium. Solitary The solitary glands are roundish white eminences, about glands; the size of mustard seed, if distended, which are scattered sima!nd along the small intestine, but in greatest numbers in the tl0n jejunum. Placed on any side of the intestine, or even on or between the valvulae conniventes, these bodies are covered531 GLANDS OF THE SMALL INTESTINE. by the villi of the mucous membrane, and have around them the apertures of the crypts of Lieberkuhn. These glands closed are small sacs, which contain an opaque whitish granular sacs% fluid, but have not an aperture into the intestine. The glands of Peyer (glandulae agminatas) are found Glands chiefly in the ileum, in the form of oval patches, which mea- sure from half an inch to two inches or more in length, size; and about half an inch in width. These glands are situate sima- on the part of the intestine opposite to the attachment of the mesentery, and their direction is longitudinal in the gut. Usually they are from twenty to thirty in number. In the number; lower part of the ileum the patches are largest and most pecu- numerous ; but they decrease in number and size upwards from that spot, till at the lower part of the jejunum they become irregular in forim, and may consist only of small roundish masses. A patch, when examined with the microscope, appears to Compo- be. only a collection of the solitary glands, for it consists of a a gland number of small flattened vesicles or sacs, which are round or oval in form, and are covered by the mucous membrane. Like the glands referred to, the vesicles contain a whitish same as consistent fluid, and are commonly without any aperture, the soii- though they have been found with openings into the intes- Sands, tine. Around the vesicles is a circle of apertures of the crypts before described. The mucous membrane over them is a little hollowed, and may in some instances be furnished with villi. Between the vesicles the lining membrane of the bowel has the same appearance as in other parts. Glands of Brunner.—Directions have been already given Com- how to display these glands (p. 528.). They are small com- guTds, pound glands, similar to the buccal and labial glands of the Brun- mouth, which exist only in the duodenum. Near the pylorus these bodies are most numerous, and there they are visible without a lens, being nearly as large as hemp seed. When compo- examined more minutely, the glands are found to consist of lobules, with appertaining little excretory tubes; and each Aper. ends on the surface of the mucous membrane by a duct, their whose aperture is slightly larger than the mouths of the con- tiguous crypts of Lieberkuhn. In the small secretory cells of the gland the epithelium is laminar. Epithelium. — The epithelial lining of the mucous mem- The ePu M M 2 thelium532 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. is co- brane of the small intestine is of the columnar or cylindrical kind. For the villi it forms a very distinct covering of elongated or prismatic pieces ; it also sinks into the crypts of Lieberkuhn, and gives them a lining. How to Dissection.—To show the cellular membrane between the see the coatular coa*s °f tne intestme> a piece of the bowel turned inside out, is to be inflated forcibly; and to ensure the success of the attempt, a few cuts may be previously made here and there through the peritoneal coat. The air enters the wall of the intestine, where the peritoneal covering is wanting, and then spreads through the whole gut; but opposite the solitary glands and the patches of Peyer the mucous coat is more closely connected with the neighbouring structures, and the subjacent cellular stratum will not be distended with the air. The intestine may be examined when it is dry. Arteries; Vessels of the intestine. — The branches of arteries ramify in the submucous cellular layer, and end in small twigs that form a network in the mucous membrane to supply the valves, the villi, and the glands. Opposite the patches of Peyer's glands the intestine is most vascular; and the vessels form circles around the follicles, and supply offsets to them, veins; The veins have their usual resemblance to the companion absorb- arteries. The absorbents consist of a superficial longitudinal ents' set (lymphatics), and of a deep transverse set (lacteals), which end in larger vessels in the mesentery. Beneath the patches of Peyer's glands the lymphatics form distinct plexuses. Two Structure of the bile duct.—The bile duct consists of a the biie strong fibrous coat, with some contractile fibre-cells, and of duct' an internal or mucous coat. Opening on the surface of the glands, mucous membrane are two sets of glands; one set consists of small single cells collected together,, and the other glands have branched tubes. LARGE INTESTINE. Extent ^ne laroe intestine is the part of the alimentary canal gut1?6 between the termination of the ileum and the anus. Its divisions, and the connection of these by peritoneum to the length; abdominal wall have been described (pp. 497.504.). In length this part of the alimentary canal measures about five or sixFORM OF THE LARGE INTESTINE. 533 feet, — one fifth of the extent of the whole intestinal tube. The diameter of the colon is largest at the commencement size; in the caecum, and gradually decreases from that part, as far as the rectum, where there is, however, a dilatation near the end. When compared with the small intestine, the colon is found com- to be distinguished by the following characters: — it is of^H* greater capacity, being in some parts as large again, and is guta11 more fixed in its position. The large intestine is also freelarger' 1 more from coils, except in the left iliac fossa, where it forms the fixed, sigmoid flexure. Instead of being a smooth cylindrical tube, coiled, the colon is sacculated, and is marked by three longitudinal faat^u" muscular bands, which alternate with as many rows of dila- J^nds. tations or small sacs. Attached to the surface, at intervals, especially along the transverse colon, are processes of peri- toneum, containing fat, the appendices epiploicae. In the Append- rectum, or the lower part of the large intestine, the surface In the is smooth, and the bands have disappeared. rectum. Dissection. — For the purpose of examining the large Take intestine the student should select and blow up the caecum, oTthe with part of the ileum entering it; he should also prepare in Intfs- a similar way a piece (about four inches) of the transverse colon, and a piece of the sigmoid flexure. The cellular membrane is to be removed with care from each, after it has been inflated. The CiECUM, or the head of the colon (caput caecum coli), Defini- is the rounded part of the large intestine which projects, in Sum; the form of a pouch, below the junction of the ileum with it. It measures about two inches and a half in length, and, length though gradually narrowing inferiorly, the caecum is the width: widest part of the colon, —whence the name caput coli. At receives its inner side it is joined by the small intestine; and still andap- lower there is a small worm-like projection — the vermiform pendlx* appendix. Appendix vermiformis. — This little convoluted projection vermi- is attached to the lower and posterior part of the caecum, of pendixP;" which it was the direct continuation at one period in the menCthf growth of the embryo. From three to six inches in length, dimen- the appendix is rather larger than a goose-quill, and is con- slons' nected to the inner part of the caecum by a fold of perito- neum. It is hollow, and has an aperture of communication it is 31 M 3 h0ll°W■ 534 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. with the intestine. In structure it resembles the rest of the colon. Dry the Dissection. — To study the interior of the caecum, and the cscum, m, and open valve between it and the small intestine, the specimen now it to see 1 the under examination should be dried. After the caecum has valves. been dried the following cuts should be made into it: — One oval piece is to be taken from the end of the ileum ; another from the side of the caecum, opposite the entrance of the . small intestine; and lastly the end of the colon included in the ligature is to be cut off. situation lleo-ccecal valve.— On looking into the intestine, the ileo- vaive; caecal valve will be seen at the entrance of the ileum into two the caecum. This structure is composed of two pieces, each pieces , . ... . form it; with a different inclination, which project into the interior of the caecum, and bound a narrow, nearly transverse aper- ture of communication between the two differently-sized one iieo- parts of the alimentary canal. The upper piece of the valve colic, (ileocolic) projects vertically into the large intestine, oppo- theother site the junction of the ilium with the colon : and the lower csecai. piece (ileo-caecal), which is the larger of the two, has a hori- These zontal direction between the ileum and the caecum. At each eTauhe extremity of the opening the pieces of the valve are blended together, and the resulting folds extend transversely for and form some distance on the intestine, forming the frcena or reti- opening nacu^a °f the valve. The size of the opening in the valve valve6 depends upon the distension of the intestine; for when the caecum is enlarged, so as to stretch the frcena, the margins of the opening are approximated, and may be made to touch. The Each piece of the valve is formed by the circular muscular proiorf-' fibres of the intestinal tube, covered by mucous membrane; thewa?i as if the ileum was thrust obliquely through the wall of the gut. caecum, after being deprived of its peritoneal coat and its layer of longitudinal fibres. The arrangement above re- ferred to is easily seen, on a fresh specimen, by dividing the peritoneum and the longitudinal fibres, and then gently drawing out the ileum. Append. The opening of the appendix into the caecum is placed intoPens below that of the ileum. A small fold of mucous membrane caecum, closes the aperture, and acts as a valve. Ridges Folds or ridqes are directed transversely in the interior of in the _ , v _ _ , J . the gut, and correspond to the depressions on the outer sur-STRUCTURE OP THE COLON. 535 face between the sacculi. These eminences result from the how doubling of the wall of the intestine, and the largest enclose vessels and cellular membrane. Structure of the Colon.— The coats of the large intes-Four ° strata in tine are the same in number and kind as in the small gut, the wall ° of the viz. a serous, muscular, cellular, and mucous : their relative gut- position to one another is also the same. 1. Serous coat.—The peritoneum does not cover the large serous intestine in the same degree throughout. It covers the front differs of the caecum, and the front and sides of the ascending andtheuu descending colon ; but in neither does it commonly reach the posterior aspect (p. 504.). The transverse colon is incased like the stomach, and has an interval along both the anterior and the posterior border, at the attachments of the transverse meso-colon and the great omentum. 2. The muscular coat is formed by longitudinal and cir- Two layers of cular fibres, as in the small intestine, but- the former are fibres; arranged in bands. a. The longitudinal set of fibres may be traced in the longitu- caecum as a thin layer over the surface, but they are collected three for the most part into three longitudinal bands, each being about half an inch in width. On the vermiform appendix which the longitudinal fibres form a uniform layer; but they are spread continued thence as three bands along the caecum and colon appendix to the rectum, where they are again diffused over the sur- tum,rec" face. When the bands are divided the intestine unfolds and becomes elongated,—the sacculi and the ridges in the interior of the gut disappearing at the same time. b. The circular fibres are spread over the surface, but are and dr- most marked in the folds or ridges that project into the in- testine. In the rectum (to be afterwards seen) they also form the band of the internal sphincter muscle. 3. The cellular coat resembles that of the small intestine Cellular in every particular. It will be exposed by removing the t° small peritoneal and muscular coverings. 4. The mucous coat, which will be seen on opening the This intestine, is smooth, and of a pale yellow colour. It is not i°with- thrown into special folds, except in the rectum, for the and vim. ridges in the interior of the gut are formed by all the coats. The surface is free from villi; and by this circumstance the mucous membrane of the large can be distinguished from M M 4DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 536 that of the small intestine. This difference of the surface in the two portions of the tube is well seen in the ileo-csecal valve; for the upper surface which looks to the small intes- tine is covered with villi even to the edge of the opening, whilst the lower surface which is covered by the lining mem- brane of the caecum is free from those projections, srruc- Microscopic appearances,—In a fresh piece of intestine, tare very . . like that the mucous membrane will be seen, under the microscope, to gut.ma posies small tubes or crypts, some larger solitary follicles, and an epithelial covering. Tubes or The tubules or crypts occupy the whole length of the crypts jarge an(j resemble those of the small intestine, but are more more numerous and closer together. Their orifices on the ousthan surface are circular, and are more uniformly diffused than the apertures of the crypts in the small intestine. A ver- but like tical section of the membrane will show the tubes to extend Lieber- vertically from the surface into the submucous coat, and to be of greater length than the crypts of Lieberkiihn in the jejunum and ileum, simple The solitary follicles are found all through the large intes- nlosun **ne> scattered nere and there ; but they are in greatest nura- the m. ber in the cascum, and in the vermiform appendix. They SiZe are whitish rounded bodies from 1 to 1 line in diameter, and are situate in the submucous cellular layer amongst the and tubules. These follicular glands are simple sacs with a form. diiatecl cavity and a narrow neck opening into the intestine, being in form something like a small rounded fruit with a stalk. Epithe- The epithelium is of the columnar kind, as it is in the lmm* small intestine, and enters the tubules. Vessels Vessels. — The distribution of the vessels in the wall of of the large intestine is the same as in that of the smaller the gut. bowel. The absorbent vessels, after leaving the intestine, join the lymphatic glands along the side of the colon. THE PANCREAS. Form The pancreas is a narrow flattened gland about seven length; inches in length, which has some resemblance to a dog's sions. tongue. It is larger at the right than at the left end; and is divided into a head, tail, and body, and form The head, or the right extremity, occupies the concavityTHE PANCREAS. 537 of the duodenum, and projects above and below the body of of the the gland, like the head of a hammer beyond the handle ; and the lower projecting piece is directed to the left along the duodenum as far as the superior mesenteric vessels, be- neath which it passes. The left extremity, or the tail, is 0f the rounded, and touches the spleen. The body of the gland is and of narrowest a little to the right of the vertebral column, and the body* is thickest at the upper border ; it measures about one inch and a half in breadth, and from half an inch to an inch in thickness. Its connections with surrounding parts are described at p. 514. Dissection,—Let the pancreas be placed on the anterior Trace surface, and the excretory duct contained in its substance be ducthe traced, posteriorly, from right to left. The duct will be recognised by its white colour. Structure. — The pancreas is a compound gland, and IS It is a provided with a special duct. It is destitute of a distinct p0™nd capsule, but it is surrounded by cellular tissue, which pro- wfthout jects into the interior, and connects together the lobules, capsule?* The fluid secreted by it assists in the digestion of the ali- ment. The glandular structure is soft and loose in texture, and Texture is of a reddish, or greyish white colour. It consists of colour; lobules, which are united into larger masses by cellular tis- sue, vessels, and ducts. In analysing a lobule it will be COnsti- found to consist ultimately, as in the parotid, of the branch- ii£°the ings of the excretory duct, which end in closed vesicular gilST extremities, and are surrounded by a plexus of vessels. The duct of the pancreas (canal of Wirsung) extends the The duct entire length of the gland, and is somewhat nearer the lower gland; than the upper border. It begins in the tail of the pancreas, extent; where it presents a bifurcated extremity ; as it continues onwards to the head of the gland, it receives many branches, branch- and it finally ends by opening into the duodenum, either in es; union with, or separate from the common bile duct (p. 529.). termi- Of the tributary branches the largest is derived from the head of the pancreas. The duct measures one line or one size and line and a half in diameter near the duodenum, and is formed tureV of a fibrous and a mucous coat: the latter is lined by a cylindrical epithelium, and is provided with small compound glands in the duct, and its largest branches. Occasionally there are two pancreatic ducts: or the branch Cities'-DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 538 from the head of the pancreas may open separately into the duodenum, one inch or more from the chief duct. Vessels Vessels and nerves. — The arteries and veins have been described nerves, already: and the lymphatics join the lumbar glands. The nerves are furnished by the solar plexus. THE SPLEEN. Consist- The spleen is a vascular spongy organ of a bluish or purple colour11 colour, sometimes approaching to gray : it has but slight spleen; consistence, so that the texture is friable, and easily broken USe. under pressure. The use of the spleen is unknown, form; The viscus is somewhat elliptical in shape, and is placed position; vertically against the great end of the stomach, as before surfaces; described (p. 500.). On the outer aspect the surface is con- vex towards the ribs. On the inner aspect, the surface is marked by a longitudinal ridge, nearer the posterior than the anterior border, into which the vessels plunge to enter the interior ; whilst before and behind the ridge, the surface is flattened or somewhat hollowed. The spot where the ves. borders; sels enter, is named the hilus of the spleen. The anterior border is thinner than the posterior, and is often notched, ends. Of the two extremities, the lower is more pointed than the upper. SiZe The size of the spleen varies much at different times. In the adult it measures commonly about five inches in length, three or four inches in breadth, and one or one inch and a and half in thickness. Its weight lies between four and ten weight* ounces, and is rather less in the female than in the male. some- Small masses or accessory spleens (splenculi) are often" acces5- found near the fissure of the spleen, in the gastro-splenic spleens, omentum, or in the great omentum. Varying in size from a bean to a moderate sized plum, these bodies are commonly one or two in number; but they may be many more. In one instance they exceeded even a score. Two Structure.—Enveloping the spleen are two coverings, ^ts a serous and a fibro-elastic. The mass of the spleen is matedai f°rmecl by a network of fibrous tissue, which contains in its spleen meshes the proper splenic substance, and the Malpighian corpuscles. Throughout the whole mass the blood vessels and the nerves ramify. No duct exists in connection with this organ.STRUCTURE OF THE SPLEEN. 539 1. The serous or peritoneal coat incases the spleen, cover- serous ing the surface, except at the hilus and the upper and pos- nearly terior border. It is closely connected to the subjacent fibrous piete. coat. 2. The fibro-elastic coat (tunica albuginea) gives strength ™™us to the viscus, and forms a complete case for it. At the ?ends, 1 x m inwards fissure on the inner surface, this investment enters the in- pro. cesses. terior of the spleen with the vessels, to which it furnishes sheaths. If an attempt is made to detach this coat, numerous fibrous processes will be seen to be connected with the inner surface. Its colour is whitish; and its structure is made up Fibres of areolar and elastic tissue. In certain animals, some con- form it. tractile muscular fibre cells are present in it. Dissection. — The spongy structure will come into view, interior by washing and squeezing a piece of fresh (bullock's) spleen spleen, under water, so as to remove the grumous looking material. The trabecular tissue forms a network .through the whole and dis- interior of the spleen, similar to that of .a sponge, which is of joined on the one hand to the external casing and on the tissue in other to the sheaths around the vessels. The fibrous pro- To form cesses are white, flattened or cvlindrical, and average from fn are°- 7 ■ J > o ]ar struc- to |- of a line: they consist of fibrous and elastic tissue,ture- though Kolliker thinks there may be muscular fibre cells in the smallest microscopic bands. The interstices between the fibres communicate freely together, and contain the proper substance of the spleen,, and the vessels. Microscopic appearances.—The characters of the sub- Parts stance of the spleen, and those of the Malpighian bodies with must be made out with the aid of the microscope. scope." The splenic pulp is a soft semi-fluid red-brown mass, splenic which fills the areolae of the interspersed white trabecular stance; structure. Under the microscope this material is composed and of very fine fibres and blood vessels, with special cells, and ce iS* small masses of blood undergoing transformation into pale nucleated cells (Kolliker). The special cells are united by a reddish-yellow fluid, and ceils of form the half of the pulpy substance: they are of different puipe.n sizes, apparently as if in different stages of growth, the smallest being nucleus-like bodies, and the largest, pale one or two nucleated, and granular cells. The Malpighian corpuscles are best seen in the human Maipi-DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 540 ghian body after sudden death, or in children. They are small size- ' ves^cu^ar bodies, averaging ^ of a line in diameter, and are appended, mostly without pedicles, to the sheaths of the smallest branches of the arteries ; they project into the pulp attach- of the spleen, and are surrounded by it except at the attached side. Each is a closed sac, having a membranous case, with contents. consti- The coat of the corpuscle is transparent, and consists of tuents. game tissue as the sheaths of the small arteries with which it is continuous. In the interior is a tenacious whitish mass, with different sized cells of the same nature as those in the spleen pulp. Splenic Blood-vessels.-—The branches of the splenic artery enter artery ^e spleen, and their ramifications are surrounded by the supplies sheaths of tissue, even to the terminal twigs. In this viscus So?" tne chief branches are said not to join together; and they spleen. accon3panv the veins till they have a size from i to y1^- of a line. Then they leave the veins, and, still surrounded by sheaths, end in the smallest branches; these pass by the Malpighian bodies, to which they are said to give fine twigs, and end by means of tufts of offsets in the splenic pulp, vein The splenic vein begins in the capillaries occupying the bygca- splenic pulp in the intertrabecular spaces, as in other parts of piiianes. ^e DOdy? and without dilatations (Kolliker). The branches of veins are much larger than the arteries which they ac- company to the fissure of the spleen; and in their course they receive accessory branches, some joining at a right angle. Lymph Nerves and lymphatics. — The lymphatics are superficial and atics. deep, and enter the glands in the gastro-splenic omentum; their Nerves arrangement in the spleen is unknown. The nerves come from the solar plexus, and surround the artery and its branches ; accord- ing to Ecker they end in free points by the sides of the arterial tufts. THE LIVER. office of The liver secretes the bile, and is the largest gland in the the liver. k0(jy. its duct opens into the duodenum with that of the pancreas. Clean Dissection. — Preparatory to examining the liver, the teisVon vessels at the under surface should be dissected out. This541 FORM OF THE LIVER. proceeding will be facilitated by distending the vena portae the * with cotton wool, and the gall bladder with air through its surface, duct. The several vessels and ducts are then to be defined, and the gall bladder to be cleaned. On following outwards the left branch of the vena portae to the longitudinal or antero-posterior fissure, it will be found connected anteriorly with the remains of the umbilical vein, and posteriorly with the remains of the ductus venosus. The liver is of a red-brown colour and firm consistence; colour, and weighs commonly in the adult from three to four pounds sistence; (fifty to sixty ounces). Transversely the gland measures Weisht' from ten to twelve inches; from front to back between six ments. and seven inches; and in thickness, at the right end, about three inches, but this last measurement must change with the spot examined. In its shape the liver is somewhat square; and in form it Form differs at the surfaces, borders, and extremities; it is also sions. marked by several lobes and fossae, and by fissures, which contain vessels. The ligaments and the connections of the liver are described at pp. 499. 505. Surfaces. — On the upper aspect the liver is convex: ex- upper tending from front to back is the suspensory ligament, which smooth; divides the upper surface into two unequal parts, of which the right is the larger. The under surface is irregular, and under presents lobes, fissures, and fossae : in contact with this sur- irregu- face is the gall-bladder; and a longitudinal fissure divides it into a right and a left lobe. Borders. — The anterior border is thin, and is marked by Anterior two notches: one is opposite the fissure on the under sur- Sand face before alluded to, and the other corresponds to the edge notched' of the gall-bladder. The posterior border is much thicker posterior _ , _ -i-ip i.i •• ls tmck- at the right end than at the left, and m that part it is con- er, nected by cellular tissue to the kidney and the diaphragm. Opposite the vertebral column is a hollow in this border ; and also and the vena cava is partly imbedded in the substance of the liver on the right of that spot. Extremities. — The right part of the liver is thick and Extre- rounded, but the left is thin and flattened. Lobes. — On the under surface, the liver is divided pri-Lobes Hiarily into two lobes, a right and a left, by the longitudinal under fissure that passes from before backwards; and the right and are five, viz.542 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. lobe is further subdivided into three others, viz. the square lobe, the Spigelian lobe, and the caudate lobe, left, The left lobe is smaller and thinner than the right, and has a slight depression inferiorly where it touches the stomach. right; The right lobe forms the greater part of the liver, and is last sub. separated from the left by the longitudinal fissure on the divided r r J & into one aspect, and by the suspensory ligament on the other. To it the gall-bladder is attached ; and the following lobes are projections on its under surface. square, The square lobe (lobulus quadrat us) is situate between the gall-bladder and the longitudinal fissure. It reaches anteriorly to the margin of the liver, and posteriorly to the fissure (transverse) by which the vessels enter the interior of the viscus. Spige- The Spigelian lobe lies behind the transverse fissure, and forms a roundish projection on the surface. On its left side is the longitudinal fissure, and on its right, the vena cava inferior. andcau-, The caudate lobe is a slight elongated eminence, that is date j ° ° lobe, j directed from the Spigelian lobe behind the transverse J fissure, so as to form the posterior boundary of that sulcus. Where the fissure terminates, this projection subsides in the right lobe. Three Fissures,— Extending horizontally half across the right fissures, ^ ^e \[YeY, between the Spigelian and caudate lobes on the one hand., and the square lobe on the other, is the portal, transverse or portal fissure. This fissure or hilus is nearer verse, the posterior than the anterior border of the liver, and con- tains the vessels, nerves, ducts, and lymphatics of the viscus. At its left end, it is united at a right angle with the longitu- dinal fissure. longitu- The longitudinal fissure extends from the front to the dmal; back of the liver between the right and left lobes. In the part anterior to the transverse fissure (fissure for the umbi- lical vein) is the remnant of the umbilical vein, which is called round ligament, and is oftentimes arched over by a piece of the hepatic substance (pons hepatis). In the part behind the transverse fissure (fissure for the ductus venosus) is a small obliterated cord that remains from the ductus venosus of the foetus.FISSURES OF THE LIVER. 543 The fissure or groove for the vena cava is placed on the one for the vena right side of the Spigelian lobe, and is frequently bridged cava, over by the liver. If the cava be opened, the large hepatic veins will be seen entering it. Fossce. — On the under surface of the right lobe are these Fossae beneath. depressions: one for the gall-bladder, to the right of the square lobe ; another for the colon, near the anterior part; and a third for the kidney, near the posterior part. Vessels of the transverse fissure. — The vessels lying in vessels J J J & in the the transverse fissure, viz. vena portae, hepatic artery and trans- duct, have the following disposition:—the duct is anterior, fissure; the portal vein posterior, and the artery between the other two. Hepatic duct.—The duct that conveys away the bile, is Ration formed by two branches; these issue from the liver, one branch- J . ing. from each lobe, and are soon blended in a common tube or hepatic duct. After a distance of two inches, the hepatic duct is joined by the duct of the gall-bladder; and the union of the two gives rise to the common bile-duct. The hepatic artery is divided into two, one for each lobe, and its branches are surrounded by nerves and lymphatics. The vena portce branches, like the artery, into two trunks, for the same lobes, and gives an offset to the Spigelian lobe : its left branch is the longest. Fcetal condition of the umbilical vein.—In the longitudinal ,In th.e J ° longnu- fissure are the remains of a vessel which has the undermen- <*inal fissure tioned arrangement in the foetus. Before birth the large *n *he .... . foetus, umbilical vein occupies the longitudinal fissure, and opens posteriorly into the vena cava; but the part of the vessel beyond the transverse fissure receives the name ductus venosus, Branches are supplied from the vein at that period to both lobes of the liver, and a large one, that is directed to the right lobe, is continuous with the left divi- sion of the vena portse. After birth the anterior part of the umbilical vein is closed, and becomes eventually the round condi- ligament: and the posterior part, or the ductus venosus, is birth! er also obliterated, only a thin cord remaining in its place; whilst the lateral branches, which are in a line with those of the vena portse, remain open, and subsequently form part of the portal system of vessels. Occasionally the ductus venosus is found more or less pervious.544 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Giandu- Structure of the Liver. — The substance of the liver tureis consists of a collection of small secreting bodies, called incased , * ■• .. . . by two lobules or acini; together with a large proportion of vessels, which are concerned both in the production of the secretion and in the nutrition of the organ. The whole is surrounded by a fibrous and a serous coat. Serous 1. Serous coat. — The peritoneum invests the liver almost coat, completely, and adheres closely to the subjacent coat. At where certain spots, intervals exist between the two, viz. in the ' fissures occupied by vessels, at the lines of attachment of the ligaments, and at the surface covered by the gall-bladder. Where the right lateral ligament is inserted the space is the largest. Fibrous 2. The fibrous covering is very thin, but it is rather is stronger where the peritoneum is not in contact with it. prolong- It invests the liver, and is continuous, at the transverse interior, fissure, with the fibrous sheath (capsule of Glisson) that surrounds the vessels in the interior of the hepatic mass. When the membrane is torn from the surface, it is found to be connected with fine shreds, that dip between the lobules or the glandular structure of the liver. Lobules Size and form of the lobules. — The lobules constitute the liver; proper hepatic substance, and can be seen on the exterior of the liver, on a cut surface of it, or by means of a rent of the size and mass. As thus observed, these bodies are about the size of ance;r" a pin's head, and measure from half a line to a line in foniynd diameter. Closely massed together, each presents a dark invest- central point, and is isolated from the surrounding ones by a cellular stratum. By means of transverse and vertical sec- tions of the lobules, their form will appear triangular on the exterior, but five or many sided in the interior of the liver. They are clustered around the smallest divisions (sublobular) of the hepatic vein, to which each is connected by a small twig issuing from the centre (intra-lobular vein), something like the attachment of the lamina to the stalk or petiole of a leaf. The part of each lobule in contact with the small sublobular vein, wants the cellular covering that invests the other sides. Difficult To study the minute structure of these secretory elements lobules?" of the hepatic substance, the student should have the differ-STRUCTURE OF THE LIVER. 545 ent vessels of the liver minutely injected, and should be provided with a microscope. Constituents of the lobules.—Each lobule or elementary a lobule piece of the liver is composed of hepatic secretory cells, that distinct t • tit gland. are arranged in lines so as to leave intervals between them; and is provided with a capillary network of vessels, and with radicles of an excretory duct* Cells of the lobules. — The hepatic or biliary cells, under Biliary n . n . cells of the microscope, are seen to be of an irregular form, being the io- rounded or flattened, elongated, or many sided; and to pos- Situation sess a bright nucleated nucleus, or even more than one. In and ° ' form; size they vary from x^g-Q- to g-^-oth °f an mcn 5 tney are °f a size and yellowish colour, and enclose a half fluid substance, probably tents; the elements of the bile, together with fatty and yellow colouring particles. These nucleated cells adhere together by their surfaces so as to form rows, with spaces between them, which radiate from the centre to the circumference: and this linear arrangement is oftentimes less regular at the outer third of the lobule. The cells are connected with the connec- origin of the ducts, and are concerned in the secretion of the ducts, bile. Arrangement of the vessels. — The disposition of the seve- Arrange- ral vessels is the following : The smallest branches of the its ves- ... . sels, vena portce. after uniting in a circle around the lobule, viz. . . vena where they are named interlobular, enter its substance, and porta?, form therein a network of capillaries near the circumference. The hepatic vein occupies the centre of the lobule, and its 5|Patic radicles communicate with the portal plexus; it issues from the base of the lobule as the intralobular vein. The radicles and bile duct, of the bile duct are supposed to form a plexus in the lobule; connected with these are the secretory hepatic or biliary cells that produce the bile. The roots of the bile duct leave the lobule at its circumference, and are joined in an inter- lobular plexus outside it, like the portal vessels. From the facts above stated respecting the arrangement Use of of the vessels, it appears that the portal capillaries conduct seis, the blood from which bile is secreted; that the hepatic vein carries back the superfluous blood; and that the secreted bile is conveyed away by the branches of the biliary duct. Vessels of the Liver. — Two sets of vessels ramify in Arrange, jrned N N546 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. in the nutrition of the organ, enters the transverse fissure, and is directed transversely in spaces named portal canals, where it is enveloped by fibrous tissue, the capsule of Glisson. The other set, or the hepatic veins, is without a sheath, and runs from the anterior to the posterior border of the liver; it conveys to the vena cava the blood that has been circu- lated through the organ. The ramifications of these diffe- rent vessels are to be traced in the liver. Capsule The capsule of Glisso?i is a layer of fibro-cellular struc- sonfwith ture, that envelops the vessels entering the liver through hf trans- the transverse fissure. In this sheath the vessels ramify, fissure and in it they are minutely divided before their termination a cellular in the lobules. Processes of the sheath accompany the small extends interlobular vessels, and join the cellular covering of the lobules, lobules. If a transverse section is made of a portal canal, the vessels will retract somewhat into the loose surrounding tissue. Vena The vena porta ramifies in the liver like an artery, and the porta? blood is circulated through it in the same manner, viz. from trunk occupies to branches. After entering the transverse fissure the vein divides canals, into primary branches ; these lie in the portal canals or spaces with offsets of the hepatic artery, the hepatic duct, and the nerves and and lymphatics. The same division is repeated again and again; and vagina? the resulting vessels give off minute lateral branches, some of which, vaginal, ramify in the cellular sheath before their final dis- tribution to the hepatic substance, whilst others pass to the lobules and in - without previous anastomosis. Finally, the last branches of the teriobu- vejn penetra£e between the lobules, around which they form a branch- circle, and then end in the interior as before explained: where these twigs lie between the lobules they are named interlobular. Bile Hepatic duct. — The commencement of the duct within the lobules is uncertain; but probably the duct has a reticular arrange- ment amongst the portal vessels, its radicles corresponding to the spaces between the rows of cells, and being lined by a thin membrane. On leaving the lobules the branches form a plexus, interlobular, between them; and the small ducts soon unite into larger vaginal branches, that lie in the portal canals with the other vessels. Lastly, the ducts are collected into a right and a left trunk, which leave the liver at the transverse fissure as before described. Some Ducts have been found in the left lateral ligament of the liver, in the between the layers of the peritoneum; they anastomose together iiga-al an(^ are accompanied by branches of the vessels of the liver, viz. meat, vena portse, hepatic artery, and hepatic vein.THE GALL-BLADDER. 547 vena portae. The hepatic artery is consumed in the nutrition of the structure Hepatic of the liver. Whilst surrounded by the capsule of Glisson it fur- ncmmh- nishes vaginal branches to that sheath, which ramify in it and give it a red appearance in a well injected liver; it supplies other twigs and joins to the coats of the vena portae and the biliary duct. From the [ vaginal branches some few offsets are sent to the lobules to supply their structure. This artery is supposed by Mr. Kiernan to ter- minate in venous capillaries that communicate with the branches of the vena portaa. The hepatic veins (venae cavae hepaticae) begin by a plexus in the Hepatic interior of each lobule, and from it an intralobular vein issues at without the base; these join together and form still larger or sublobular a sneath branches. The next sized branches cease to receive any intra- lobular twigs, and merely unite with neighbouring branches to produce larger veins. Finally, the hepatic veins are collected into be?in large trunks, that are directed from before backwards to the vena lobules, cava inferior, into which they open by large orifices. The venae and end cavae hepaticae may be said to be without a cellular sheath, for it is vena very slight only in the larger trunks ; so that when they are cut cava* across the ends remain patent in consequence of their close con- nection with the hepatic structure. THE GALL BLADDER. The gall-bladder is the receptacle of the bile, and is situate Use and in a depression on the under surface of the right lobe of the tion; liver, to the right of the square lobe. Conical in form, or form; pear-shaped, its larger end {fundus) is directed forwards beyond the margin of the liver ; whilst the smaller end, or the neck, is turned in the opposite direction, and bends downwards to end in the cystic duct by a zigzag part. In size < length the gall-bladder measures three or four inches, and in breadth rather more than an inch at the fundus, or the widest part. It holds rather more than an ounce. By one surface connec- the sac is in contact with the liver, and on the opposite it is covered by peritoneum. The larger end touches the abdo- minal wall opposite the tip of the cartilage of the tenth rib, and is contiguous to the transverse colon ; and the small end touches the duodenum. Structure.—The wall of the gall-bladder has a peritoneal, ®J™£f a fibrous and muscular, and a mucous coat, with thin inter- wail, vening cellular layers. The serous coat is stretched over the under or free aspect serous 1 cant.548 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. of the gall-bladder, and surrounds the large end when the viscus is distended. Fibrous The muscular coat which has not great strength, gives a muscu- complete covering to the sac, and has much fibrous tissue in- stratum. termixed with it. Mucous The mucuos coat is marked internally by numerous ridges is^eo- an(* intervening depressions, which give an areolar or honey- surface comb appearance to the surface. On laying open the gall- bladder, this condition will be seen, with the aid of a lens, to be most developed about the centre of the sac, and to dimi- nish towards each extremity. In the larger hollows, there and co- are other smaller depressions which lead to mucous follicles. vert-d by a coium- The surface of the mucous membrane is covered by a colum- nar epi- t t J theiium. nar epithelium. Projec- Where the gall-bladder is bent, at its junction with the tions of , the wail, cystic duct, its coats project into the interior, and give rise to ridges that resemble the parietal septa in the sacculated large intestine. Duct of The cystic duct joins the hepatic duct at an acute angle, bladder, to form the ductus communis choledochus. It is about an inch and a half long, and is distended and somewhat saccu- lated near the gall-bladder, struc- Structure.—The coats of the duct are the same as those of same as the sac from which it leads, but the muscular fibre cells are sac, and is very few« The mucous lining is provided with branched M™h ^u g^an(^s? as m the hepatic and common bile ducts (p. 532.). glands, j>uf- \n tne hepatic ducts the glands are arranged in a row on each side. Mucous Valve of the gall-bladder. — On slitting open the duct the coat like ■. . n • /? «i a screw, mucous membrane is seen to lorm a series ot semilunar pro- jections (from nine to twenty), which are arranged obliquely around the tube, like the thread of a screw, and increase in size towards the gall-bladder. This structure is best seen on a gall-bladder that has been inflated and dried; as in this state the parts of the bladder between the folds are most dis- tended, giving rise to the sacculated appearance. Artery, Blood-vessels and nerves. — The vessels of the gall-bladder are vein, named cystic ; the artery is a branch of the hepatic, and the vein nerves, opens into the vena portas near the liver. The nerves are derived ?ymph- from the hepatic plexus, and entwine around the vessels. The aucs. lymphatics follow the cystic duct, and join the deep lymphatics on the spinal column.FORM OF THE KIDNEY. 549 THE KIDNEY AND THE URETER. The organ for the secretion of urine has a characteristic Use and form : flattened on the sides, it is larger at the upper than form, at the lower extremity, and is hollowed out at the inner part of its circumference. For the purpose of distinguishing To dis- between the right and left kidneys, let the excavated margin right be supposed to be turned to the spinal column, whilst the left, ureter, or the excretory tube, is kept more posterior than the other vessels; and let that end be directed downwards, towards which the ureter is naturally inclined. With the special form above mentioned, the kidney is of Colour, a deep red colour, and presents an even surface. Its average size, length is about four inches, its breadth two, and its thickness about one inch; but the left is commonly longer and more slender than the right kidney. The usual weight of this and body is about five ounces and a half in the male, and rather less in the female. The upper extremity of the kidney is rounded, is thicker Extre- than the lower, and is surmounted by the supra-renal body ; mitles' the lower end is flat, and more pointed. The relative posi- tion with respect to the spinal column has been before detailed (p. 500.). On its anterior aspect the kidney is surfaces; convex, but on the opposite surface it is flattened. The borders, outer border is convex; but the inner is excavated, and is marked by a longitudinal fissure, hilum. In the interior of the kidney is a hollow, named sinus, into which the hilum leads, and in which the vessels and the duct are contained, before they pierce the renal substance. In the fissure of the kidney the several vessels are thus Contents placed with respect to one another: — The divisions of the fissure; renal vein are in front, the ureter is behind, and the branches their of the artery lie between the other two. On the vessels the r nerves and lymphatics ramify, and cellular structure sur- rounds the whole. Dissection, — To examine the interior of the kidney it Open the will be necessary to cut through it from the inner to the andney' outer border, and to remove the loose cellular membrane vessels, from the vessels, and the divisions of the excretory duct that enter the hilum. The hollow or sinus, that contains the blood-vessels, now comes into view. M N 3 position.550 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Renal The interior of the kidney appears on a section to consist stance of two different materials, viz. of an external granular or into cor- cortical part: and of internal, darker coloured, pyramidal tical and pyrami- masses, that converge towards the centre, and are connected with the divisions of the excretory duct. But it will subse- quently appear that each of these parts is constructed of the same elements, though somewhat differently arranged. Extent The cortical substance, or the external part, forms about of cor- ? . tical sub- three-fourths of the kidney : it covers the pyramidal masses stance; ... with a layer about two lines in thickness, and sends prolon- coiour; gations between the same nearly to their extremities. Its colour is of a light red, unless the kidney is blanched ; and ence-1" *ts consistence ^s so slight that the mass gives way beneath the finger. This layer is formed of a congeries of convo- si°tion°" ^uted uriniferal tubes, surrounded by vascular plexuses ; and, in a well-injected specimen, red points (Malpighian bodies) are seen scattered here and there through its texture. Pyra- The pyramidal masses (pyramids of Malpighi, medullary number substance,) are twelve or eighteen in number, and converge form, to the sinus of the kidney. Each mass is conical in form: rection; it has the base turned towards the circumference of the organ, where it is surrounded by the cortical substance ; and the apex, which is free from cortical covering, directed to the hollow at the inner part of the kidney. At this last spot it end in ends in a smooth, rounded part, named mamilla or papilla, papiJis. .g surroun(jed by one of the divisions (calyx) of the excretory tube. Occasionally two of the masses are united Physical in one papillary termination. This portion of the kidney is ters; denser than the cortex, its colour is darker, and its cut sur- composi- face has a grooved appearance. The conically shaped mass is constructed of uriniferal tubes, like the cortical covering; but in it the tubes have become straight, and are converging to their termination on the papilla. If the mass is com- pressed, urine will exude from the tubes, through apertures in the apex. Rudi- In the human foetus, and in some animals, the kidney is divided condi-ry hito separate lobes; and each lobe consists of a pyramidal mass, th? °f witn a cortical envelope. With the growth of the human kidney kidney, the original divisions disappear, and the cortical covering of con- tiguous lobes is blended to produce the interlobular cortical part. But in the adult the uriniferous tubes and the vessels of each pyra-4 STRUCTURE OF THE KIDNEY. 551 mid and its envelope, which correspond to one of the primary lobes, are distinct as in the organ in its lobular condition. Structure of the Kidney. — The substance of the tunes incased mixed with blood-vessels, lymphatics, nerves, and fine cellular 5&r* tissue. The whole is incased by a fibrous coat. coat- The fibrous coat is a white firm case, which is connected ^trous with the renal tissue by fine processes and vessels, but is readily detached from it by slight force. At the inner mar- ^sJsin gin of the kidney, it sinks into the hollow or sinus, and sends processes on the entering vessels: at the same spot it is continuous with the fibrous coat of the excretory duct. To obtain a knowledge of the anatomy of the secreting How the tubes, and to make out the disposition of the blood-vessels, to beey 1S the dissector will require a microscope and good fine injec- tions of the part. Arrangement.—The uriniferous tubes (tubuli uriniferi) Urini- * n ferous are the ramified terminations of the excretory duct, which tubes; pour out the urine. In the cortex of the kidney, where the Charac- tubes present closed extremities (tubes of Ferrein), they are coitex innumerable, are very convoluted, and of different sizes, ney; convo- though they average about -g-^th of an inch. In this part luted, they are closely surrounded by a plexus of blood-vessels, and rounded by ves- are usually distinct one from another. A certain number of seis; the tubes converge towards each pyramid, and having be- in pyra- come straight, are directed downwards, as a conical bundle, straight, to the apex of that body, where they open by somewhat dilated orifices. In the pyramid the tubes lie close together, fewer in and have but few vessels between them ; they further dimi- ancUe!- nish in number, from base to apex, by repeated unions, and ' are enveloped by a uniting or parenchymatous structure. w*£ths On a section of one of the pyramids, near the lower end, the inferior- number of tubes was estimated by Krause at a hundred in a square line. Structure and endmg of the tubes. — The tubes consist of struc- a thin basement membrane; and they are lined by an epithe- the wail Hum of the spheroidal kind, which forms three-fourths of the bide; " thickness of the wall, except in the pyramid, where it is thinner, and the cells smaller and flatter. The tubes termi- base- nate in free extremities; and each tube presents a dilated or mem. saccular part, which contains a small vascular Malpighian aJSepi- ) NN 4 thelium.552 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. body, and is perforated by the two vessels connected with that body.* Into this little sac the epithelial lining does not extend, for it ceases at the neck, becoming very delicate and translucent. Dilatations for the lodgment of the Malpighian body are said to be connected with the side, as well as the end of the tubes. Corpus- The Malpighian corpuscles (glomeruli of Ruysch) are the ' small, rounded or oblong, vascular bodies, that are contained 'in the dilated sacs of the uriniferal tubes. Each little vas- size; cular tuft has commonly a diameter of y^^th of an inch, and compos- is formed by the capillary ramifications of two small vessels vessel?0 tna* perforate the end of the containing tube. One vessel (afferent) is a small twig of the renal artery, which forms the exterior of the tuft by its branchings ; the other (efferent) occupies the centre of the tuft, and issuing from the tube ends in the plexus on a neighbouring uriniferal tube. This capillary body is free in the cavity of the tube that secretes the urine, but it is covered by some nucleated scales. Blood- Blood-vessels.—The artery and vein that are distributed ar|sels to the kidney are very large in proportion to the size of the large' organ they nourish ; and some small arterial branches have andar- & J ... . . teries a peculiar disposition in the Malpighian bodies before they liar. become capillary, and end in the veins. Branch- Renal artery. — As the artery enters the kidney it divides into arteryhe ^our or ^ve branches, which are invested by sheaths of the fibrous capsule, and are transmitted to the cortical substance between the reach pyramidal masses. Some of the offsets of a chief branch enter the exterior, pyramidal mass, and ramify on the tubes, forming anastomotic supply loops parallel with those tubes, whilst the continuation of the ^'ndUform trunk is distributed in the cortex around the pyramid. The ter- giome- minal twigs of the artery end either in the Malpighian bodies or in a vascular plexus around the uriniferal tubes. Veins Renal vein. — This vein begins in the capillary plexuses on the around convoluted urine tubes, and its larger branches are directed to the tubules, centre 0f the kidney, where they communicate around the pyra- midal masses. From this spot the divisions of the vein accom- and end pany those of the artery, and are united finally into one trunk that opens into the vena cava. Some of the small roots of the vein m vena cava. * See a Paper in the Philosophical Transactions for 1842, Part I., On the Structure and Use of the Malpighian Bodies of the Kidney, by W. Bowman, F.R.S,THE URETER. 553 may be seen to form an arborescent appearance on the surface of the kidney. The ureter is the tube by which the fluid secreted in the Ureter- kidney is conveyed to the bladder. Its anatomy must be °ffice; ' studied afterwards, when the body is in a suitable position. Between its origin and termination the duct measures from length, sixteen to eighteen inches in length. Its size corresponds size commonly to that of a large quill; but near the kidney it is vades* dilated into a funnel-shaped part, named pelvis, and near the bladder it is again somewhat dilated, though the lower aper- ture, by which it terminates, is the narrowest part of the tube. In its course from one viscus to another, the ureter is close course beneath the peritoneum, and is directed obliquely downwards and inwards along the posterior wall of the abdomen as far as the pelvis, where it becomes almost horizontal in direction in the posterior false ligament of the bladder. At first the and con- ureter is placed over the psoas muscle, inclining on the right nections- side towards the inferior vena cava; and then it lies over the common or the external iliac artery* being situate be- tween the vessel and the sigmoid flexure on the left side, and between it and the end of the ileum on the right side. Lastly, it will be subsequently seen to lie below the level of the obliterated hypogastric artery, in the posterior ligament of the bladder. About the middle of the psoas this excre- tory tube is crossed by the spermatic vessels. Sometimes Some the ureter is found divided into two for a certain distance. Part in the kidney. -Near the kidney the ureter is dilated Ureter into a pouch, named pelvis, in the hilum; and when traced SSL*, upwards into the viscus, it is found to begin by a set of cup- dilated shaped tubes, named calices, or infundibula, which vary in Key6 number from seven to thirteen. Each cup-shaped part em- which ' braces the rounded end of a pyramidal mass, and receives ^ the urine that flows through the apertures in that projection; ™^ and sometimes a calix surrounds two or more papillse. The several calices are united together to form two or three * In a dozen uninjected bodies that were examined for me by Mr S F. Statham, the ureter was found as frequently over the one as the other of the two vessels mentioned.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 554 larger tubes; and these are finally blended in the excretory duct or the ureter. Two Structure. — The ureter consists of an external or muscu- coatsin ureter, lar, and an internal or mucous coat. The muscular covering iarUand" forms a dense bluish-white layer, which is composed of an mucous. externai or longitudinal, and an internal or circular stratum. The mucous coat is thrown into longitudinal folds during the contracted state of the ureter? and is lined by an epithelium of the spheroidal form. The ca- The calices resemble the rest of the duct in having a mus- twoS als° cular and a mucous coat. Around the pyramid the enve- loping tunic of the kidney is continuous with the calyx; and at the apex of that body, the mucous lining is prolonged into the uriniferal tubes through the small openings of the papilla. THE SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULE. Useun- This small body, whose use is unknown, has received its nown* name from its position in the abdomen. Its vessels and nerves are numerous, but it is not provided with any excre- No duet, tory duct. situa- It is situate, one on each side, on the front of the upper extremity of the kidney; and without care it may be re- moved with the surrounding fat, which it resembles. Its form and colour is yellowish ; and its form resembles that of a cocked colour, m hat. The upper part is convex, but the base or lower part size and is hollowed, where it touches the kidney. Its size in the adult is about one inch and a half in depth, and rather less in width ; and its weight is between one and two drachms, but the left is commonly larger than the right capsule. Connec- Some cellular tissue attaches the supra-renal body to the tions. r ... kidney, and large vessels and nerves retain it in situation. The connections with the surrounding parts are the same as those of the upper end of the kidney. Thus this body rests on the diaphragm on both sides ; whilst above the right one is the liver, and above the left the pancreas and the spleen. On the inner side of the right capsule is the vena cava, with part of the solar plexus ; and internal to the left is the aorta, with the same plexus of nerves. a cap- . Structure. — By means of a perpendicular section, the555 THE TESTES. sur- supra-renal body will be seen to be formed of a firm external sole .„ or cortical part, and of an internal soft and dark material !Tnds The, whole is surrounded by a thin fibrous capsule, that sends processes into the interior and along the blood-vessels. Two dif. With the aid of a microscope, the nature of the two materials above noticed will be found to be as below stated : — The cortical part is yellowish in colour and striated. Its a corti- ultimate structure consists, according to Mr. Simon, of very which small closed tubes, about ^th of an inch in diameter, which " are arranged vertically around the central part, and surrounded bules' by blood-vessels. In these fine microscopic tubes there are contained bodies like nuclei, together with nucleated granular cells, granules, and particles of oil. ; The central soft part is of a black or dark brown hue ; it a„da is formed chiefly of a plexus of minute veins with some ele- ments similar to those in the cortical part. In the interior of part' the mass there is a space (? venous). ■ Blood-vessels.-Numerous branches of arteries are furnished to Arteries, the supra-renal body from the diaphragmatic and renal arteries, and from the aorta. In the interior of this body the arteries end m capillary plexuses that surround the small tubes above described. The veins onginate in the plexuses on the tubes, and the several Veins branches are collected into a trunk that opens on the right side into the vena cava, and on the left, into the renal vein. THE TESTES. The testes are two glandular organs for the secretion of situation the semen, and are lodged in the scrotum. Each is suspended scrotum by the spermatic cord, and its coverings (p. 477.), but the StoJSi left is usually lower than the right; and each is provided serous with an excretory duct named vas deferens. A serous sac sac" partly surrounds each organ. Dissection. -For the purpose of examining the serous To see covering of the testicle (tunica vaginalis), make an aperture serous into it and inflate it. The surface both of the sac and the SSC" spermatic cord are then to be cleaned, and the vessels of the latter are to be followed to their entrance into the testicle. The tunica vaginalis is a serous bag, which is continuous Serous with the peritoneal lining of the abdomen in the foetus, but bag becomes subsequently a distinct sac, in consequence of the obliteration of the tube that connected the two. It invests Partiy ,556 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. covers the testicle after the manner of other serous membranes; for tide. the testicle is placed behind it, so as to be partly enveloped and lines \yj it and vet not in the enclosed cavity. The sac, however, scrotum; J 7 J J is larger than is necessary for covering the testicle, and pro- * jects some distance above it. Like other serous membranes, it has an external rough, and an internal secerning smooth surface; and like them it has a visceral and a parietal part. To examine its disposition the sac should be opened. its vis- The visceral layer (tunica vagin. testis) covers the testicle, part except posteriorly, where the vessels enter or leave it, and is inseparably united with the special fibrous coat of the viscus, On the outer side it extends farther back than on the inner, and it passes between the testis and the arched body (epi- didymis) that lies on this aspect of the organ. and pa- The parietal part of the sac (tunic, vagin. scroti) is more extensive than the piece covering the testicle, and lines the immediately contiguous layer of the scrotum. Testicle Form and position of the testis. — The testicle is oval in shape, with a smooth surface, and is flattened on the sides. Margins. The anterior margin is convex, and the posterior, which is flatter, is pierced by the spermatic vessels and nerves. Bodies Stretching like an arch along the outer part of the testis is testicle, the epididymis, or the convoluted part of the excretory duct of the organ ; and attached to the upper part of the testis, or that of the epididymis, is a very small body, two or three lines in length, whose use is unknown. suspend- It is suspended obliquely, so that the upper part is directed liqueiy. forwards and somewhat outwards, and the lower end back- wards and rather inwards. Dimen- Size and weight. — In length the testis is an inch and a sions . half or two inches; from before backwards it measures rather more than an inch, and from side to side rather less and than in inch. Its weight is nearly an ounce, and the left is weight. frequently larger than the other. a dense Structure.—The substance of the testicle is composed of contains a mass of minute secerning tubes, around which the blood- secret- vessels are disposed in plexuses. Surrounding and support- tubes, ing the delicate seminiferal tubes is a dense covering of the tunica albuginea. Its excretory or efferent duct is named vas deferens. How to Dissection. — With the view of examining the investingSTRUCTUKE OF THE TESTIS. 557 fibrous coat, let the testis be placed on its outer side, viz. seethe that on which the epididymis lies, and be fixed in that posi- ofthTre tion with pins. The fibrous coat may then be cut through testis" along the anterior part, and raised as far backwards as to the entrance of the blood-vessels : in this proceeding a number of fine bands will be seen traversing the substance of the testicle, and a short septal piece (mediastinum) will be observed at the back of the viscus, where the vessels enter. It will be necessary to remove part of the testicular mass of tubes, to bring into view the mediastinum, and to trace back some of the finer septa to it. The tunica albuginea, or the fibrous coat of the testicle, Fibrous is of a bluish-whire colour, and resembles in appearance and coat; structure the sclerotic coat of the eye-ball. This membrane tersT" supports the soft glandular part of the testicle, and main- use tains the shape of the organ by reason of its dense and un- yielding nature. Besides determining the general form, it sends inwards processes to support and separate the seminal Sends tubes. These several offsets of the membrane are seen in prrrds the dissection that has been made ; and one of them, which is cesses' larger than the rest, is placed at the back of the testicle, and is named mediastinum. The mediastinum testis (corpus Highmorianum) projects which into the gland for the distance of a few lines with the blood- ™ vessels. It is situate at the back of the testis, extending anT from the upper nearly to the lower part, and is larger and deeper above than below. When it is cut across it is seen to be formed of two lateral pieces, which are united anteriorly at an acute angle : to its front and sides the finer septal processes are connected : and in its interior are contained the blood-vessels, and a network of seminal ducts forming the rete testis. Of the finer processes of the tunica albuginea, which enter finer the testis, there are two kinds : those of one set are round septa< cord-like, but of different lengths, are fixed posteriorly to the mediastinum, and serve to maintain the shape of the testis ; those of the other, form delicate membranous septa, which divide the seminal tubes into masses named lobes, and are continued, like the rest, to join the mediastinum. Tunica vasculosa.—Within the tunica albuginea is a thin a va*. vascular layer, which has been named as above by Sir A i$£commu- nica- tions : DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. (tunica CooPer- Xt lines the fibrous coat, covering the different vascu- septa in tne interior of the gland; and is formed of the ramifications of the blood-vessels united by areolar tissue, like the pia mater of the brain. In it the arteries are sub- divided before they are distributed on the secerning tubes, and the veins in the interior are supported. tabesT Form and size of the seminal tubes (tubuli seminiferi). These secerning tubes are the minute branched extremities ancland of the duct or vas deferens. They are very wavy, and are but slightly held together by fine cellular tissue and sur- rounding blood-vessels, so that they may be readily drawn length; Qut Q£ tne testis for some distance. Their length is said by Monro to be sixteen feet, but by Lauth to be only two feet and a quarter. The size and the characters of the minute tubules can be learned only with the aid of the microscope. Ending and structure. — Towards the circumference of the testis, the tubes have for the most part distinct closed ex- tremities ; but some communicate, forming loops or arches, slze; and others are united deeper in the gland. The diameter of tureT the tubules varies from giroth to T|-oth of an inch. The wall of the tubuli is thin, but it has considerable strength : lining the interior is a nucleated granular epithelium, and on the exterior is a plexus of blood-vessels. SJnge Names from the arrangement of the tubes. — The names name, of the several parts of the testis are derived from the dis- position of the seminal tubes in the interior. Thus, where the tubules are collected into separate masses, they form the lobes of the testis ; as they enter the mediastinum testis they become straight, and are named tubuli recti; where they communicate in the mediastinum, they produce the rete testis ; and, lastly, as they leave the upper part of the gland, and become convoluted, they are called coni vasculosi, or vasa efferentia. They The lobes of the testis are formed, as above explained, by iobes,the bundles of the seminiferal tubes, and are situate in the inter- vals between the processes sent inwards from the tunica number; albuginea. The number of these is differently stated : ac- cording to one authority (Berres) they are 250: but according form. to another (Krause), 400 or more. They are conical in form, with the base of each turned to the circumference, and the Tubes in1 apex to the mediastinum testis. Each is made up of one,559 STRUCTURE OF THE TESTIS. two, or more tortuous seminal tubules ; and the tubes of one them and lobe are sometimes united with those of the neighbouring meSf' lobes. Towards the apex of each lobe the tubules become less bent, and are united together; and the tubuli of the several lobes are further joined at the same spot into larger canals that form the tubuli recti. Tubuli recti.—The seminal tubes that issue from the They several lobes unite together, becoming larger in size and S?" straighter in direction, and are named tubuli recti or vasa (ESS* recta: they are about twenty in number, and pierce the reCt°; fibrous mediastinum, entering into its interior. Rete testis. ^-In the substance of the mediastinum the tubes lose their former name, and are directed to the upper end of the testis. They are situate in the anterior part of after, that fibrous process, in front of the blood-vessels, and freely St. communicate, so as to form a network, the rete testis. fretT Vasa efferentia.— About twelve or twenty seminal tubes teStis)' issue from the top of the rete testis, and leave the upper part of the testicle as the vasa efferentia. These are larger and then than the tubes of which they are the continuation, and end™6 in the common excretory duct. Though straight at first, SS5n. they soon become convoluted ; whence the name coni vascu- ^ losi, that has been given to them. When they are unravelled, they are from six to eight inches long; and they will be found to join the excretory duct at intervals of about three inches. The excretory duct of the testis receives the vasa effe- Excre rentia from the upper part of the gland, and extends thence S to the urethra. Its first part, which is in contact with the testis, is very flexuous, and forms the epididymis; but the remainder is straight, and is named vas deferens. The epididymis extends, in the form of an arch, along the is bent outer side of the testis, from the upper to the lower end, and receives its name from its situation. Opposite the upper S!S'ng part of the testicle it presents an enlarged portion or head, dymis; the globus major, and at the lower part of that organ it becomes, more pointed or tail-like — globus minor, before ending in the vas deferens. The intervening narrow part how of the epididymis is called the body. Its head is attached to named; the testis by the vasa efferentia that open into it; and its tail or lower part is fixed to the tunica albuginea by someDISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 560 fibrous tissue, and by the reflection of the tunica vaginalis, is but a After the removal of the serous membrane and fibrous tissue, single tube; the epididymis may be seen to be formed of a single tube, bent into a zigzag form, whose bends are united into one length mass by fibrous tissue. This tube, when unravelled, mea- sures twenty feet in length. The diameter of its canal is about -^th of an inch ; but there is a slight diminution in size towards the globus minor. Where The vas deferens begins opposite the lower end of the straight testis, at the termination of the globus minor of the epidi- vasde^ dymis. At first this part of the excretory duct is slightly ' wavy, but afterwards it becomes, for the most part, a firm round tube. In its course to the urethra, it ascends on the inner side of the testicle to reach the blood-vessels of the this spermatic cord, with which it enters the internal abdominal fntotae ring ; it is then directed along the side of the bladder, and ure ra' through the prostate, to open on the inner surface of the length latter (see Pelvic Viscera). The length of this part of and size. ^e excretory duct is about two feet, and the width of its canal about ^th of an inch. Near its termination the vas deferens becomes enlarged and tortuous ; but this condition will be referred to with the viscera of the pelvis. Vas Connected with the vas deferens, in the angle of union occa- between it and the epididymis, is sometimes found a small present; narrow csecal appendage, the vas aberrans of Haller. This tion and body is convoluted, and projects upwards for two or three inches amongst the vessels of the cord. Like the epididymis, it is much longer when it is unravelled, measuring sometimes fourteen inches, but it may not exceed an inch and a half in length. Its capacity is greatest at the free end. Its use is unknown. The vas aberrans may be found divided or doubled, Two Structure. — The excretory duct of the testis is formed form the chiefly by a thick5 muscular coat; this is covered externally by cellular tissue, and lined internally by epithelium. To the feel the duct is firm and wiry, like whip-cord; and on a section its wall is dense and of a yellow colour, but it is amuscu- thinnest at the head of the epididymis. The muscular coat is composed of longitudinal and circular fibres arranged in strata, so that externally and internally is a longitudinal layer, the latter being very thin, and between them is a561 BLOOD-VESSELS OF THE TESTICLE. layer of circular fibres. The mucous membrane is marked and a by longitudinal ridges in the straight part of the canal, and by irregular ones in the sacculated part. A columnar epithelium covers the inner surface. The canal of the vas deferens is larger than that of the Vas aberrans epididymis, as before stated. The vas aberrans resembles ^fcthe the vas deferens in structure. Blood-vessels and nerves of the testicle.—The branches of the Artery. spermatic artery pierce the back of the testis, and enter the posterior part of the mediastinum, behind the rete testis. Leaving the mediastinum, the vessels are finely divided in the vascular mem- brane that lines the interior of the tunica albuginea. After being thus divided, offsets are continued on the fine septa between the lobes to the seminal tubules, on which they are distributed. The spermatic veins begin in the plexuses around the seminal tubes, and Veins, issue from the gland at the posterior part; they then ascend along the cord, forming a plexus, and end in one trunk. On the right side this joins the vena cava, and on the left, the renal vein (p. 571.). The lymphatics ascend on the blood-vessels, and join the ^[^P^, lumbar glands. The nerves are derived from the sympathetic, and nerves, accompany the arteries to the testis. Of vas deferens. — A special blood-vessel, the artery of the vas Vessels deferens, is furnished to the excretory duct from the upper vesical duct, artery; and some veins from the epididymis enter the spermatic veins. Section V. AORTA AND VENA CAVA, AND THE DEEP MUSCLES. Directions.—After the body is replaced in its former posi- Dissect tion on the back, the student should prepare for examination vessels first the diaphragm, next the large vessels and their branches, muscles, and then the remaining deep muscles of the abdomen. Dissection.—For the dissection of the diaphragm it will To see be necessary to remove the peritoneum from the under sur- phragm. face of that muscle, defining especially the central tendinous part, and the fleshy processes or pillars which are fixed to the lumbar vertebrae. Whilst cleaning the surface the student should be careful of the vessels and the nerves on or towards the pillars. On the right side two aponeurotic bands or arches, which give attachment to the muscular fibres, should O o562 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. be dissected out: — one curves over the psoas muscle; and the other extends from the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra to the last rib. Dia-^ The diaphragm forms the vaulted moveable partition Situation bet ween, the thorax and the abdomen ; it is fleshy externally, form. where it is attached to the surrounding ribs and the spinal Origin column, and has its tendon in the centre. The origin of the circum- muscle is at the circumference, and is similar on each side ference. ^ ^e middle line. Thus, beginning in front and passing backwards, the diaphragm will be found connected by fleshy fibres with the posterior part of the xiphoid cartilage, and with the inner aspect of the six lower ribs; with two apo- neurotic arches between the last rib and the vertebrae, — one being placed over the quadratus lumborum, and the other over the psoas muscle; and, lastly, it is connected writh the bodies of some of the lumbar vertebrae by a thick muscular inser- part or pillar. From this extensive origin externally, the tlon fibres are directed inwards, with different degrees of obliquity of fibres , ,. into a and length to the central median tendon, but some have a pe- central ..... . tendon, culiar disposition in the pillars which will be afterwards noted. Parts in The abdominal surface is covered for the most part by the contact . . . . i . i • , , with the peritoneum: in contact with it, on the right side, are the surface, liver and the kidney; and on the left side, the stomach, the spleen, and the left kidney: in contact also with the pillars is the pancreas, together with the solar plexus and the and with semilunar ganglia. The thoracic surface is covered by the upper, pleura and the pericardium, and is convex towards the thorax (p. 390.). At the circumference of the muscle, the fleshy processes of origin alternate with like parts of the Attach- transversalis muscle : a cellular interval separates the slips border, to the xiphoid cartilage and the seventh rib; and a second interval sometimes exists between the fibres from the last rib, and those from the arch over the quadratus lumborum Aper- muscle. In the diaphragm are certain apertures for the tures m transmission 0f parts from the thorax to the abdomen, viz. muscle. ^r oesophagus, another for the vena cava, and' a third for the aorta between the pillars of the muscle and the spinal column : moreover, the pillars are perforated by the splanchnic and sympathetic nerves. Arch. The muscle is curved across the intracostal space, being convex towards the chest, and concave to the abdomen; and563 THE DIAPHRAGM. the arch reaches higher on the right than the left side Height (p. 337.). The height of the arch is constantly varying with expira- the change in the condition of the diaphragm in respiration, being carried upwards or downwards from the average level. In forced expiration the muscle ascends and reaches the upper border of the fourth rib on the right, and the fifth rib on the left side. In forced inspiration, it descends, and and its slope would be represented by a line drawn from the tion. ensiform cartilage towards the tenth rib. The following parts, that have been mentioned incidentally special in describing the diaphragm, are now to be noticed more bTex-0 fully: they are the central tendon, the pillars, and the arches ammed' and apertures. The central tendon (tendo diaphragmatis, cordiform ten- central don), occupying the middle of the diaphragm, is surrounded by muscular fibres. It is of a pearly white colour, and its tendinous fibres cross in different planes and in different directions. In form it resembles a trefoil leaf; of its three like a segments the central one is the largest, whilst the left is the leaf, smallest. The pillars (crura appendices) are two large muscular Two and tendinous processes, one on each side of the abdominalpll,ars' aorta. They are pointed and tendinous below, wrhere they with are attached to the lumbar vertebras, but large and fleshy resent above ; and between them is a tendinous arch over the aorta. In each pillar the fleshy fibres, that succeed to the tendon, Arrange- pass upwards and forwards, diverging from each other, fibres in The external and middle join the central tendon without intermixing. But the internal fibres of opposite sides cross as they ° < A A ascend one another in the following manner: those of the right side, to the °# tendon. for instance, ascend by the side of the aorta, and pass to the left of the middle line, decussating between that vessel and the opening of the oesophagus with those of its fellow; having changed sides, these fibres are directed upwards to the central tendon around the oesophagean opening, which they limit on the left. The fibres of the other crus may be traced in the same way, to form the right half of the oeso- phagean opening. In the decussation between the aorta and the oesophagus the fasciculus of fibres from the right crus is larger than that from the left, and is anterior to it. The pillars differ somewhat on opposite sides. The right Differ- „ ences in o o 2564 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. the pii- is the larger of the two, and is fixed by tendinous processes to the bodies of the first three lumbar vertebras, as well as their intervertebral substance, and reaches to that be- tween the third and fourth vertebras. The left pillar*, which is situate more on the side of the spine, is partly con- cealed by the aorta, and does not reach so far as the right by the depth of a vertebra, or of an intervertebral substance. Two The arches (lisfamenta arcuata) are two fibrous bands over arches, . x ° ' the quadratus, lumborum and psoas muscles on each side, internal The arch over the psoas (lig. arcuat. internum) is the or true, . strongest, and is connected by the one end to the tendinous part of the pillar of the diaphragm, and by the other end to the transverse process of the first or second lumbar vertebra, and ex- The external arch over the quadratus lumborum muscle ternal or 1 false. (lig. arcuat. externum) is only a thickened part of the fascia covering that muscle, and extends from the same transverse process (first or second lumbar) to the last rib. As before said, fleshy fibres take origin from both bands. Aper- Apertures. — There are three large openings in the dia- are— phragm for the aorta, the vena cava, and the oesophagus; For the with some smaller fissures for nerves and vessels. The opening for the aorta is rather behind than in the diaphragm, for it is situate between the pillars of the muscle and the its con- spinal column : it transmits the aorta, the thoracic duct, and tents. For " sometimes the vena azygos. The opening for the oesophagus gus and" an(^ pneumo-gastric nerves is rather above and to the left nerves. 0f the aortic aperture : it is situate in the muscular part of the diaphragm, and is bounded by the fibres of the pillars, ve°nathe as a^ove explained. The opening for the vena cava is cava. placed in the right division of the central tendon, or between the right and middle pieces, and its margins are attached to the vein by tendinous fibres. It is described as being of a square form (foramen quadratum). Fissures There is a fissure in each pillar for the splanchnic nerves, pillars, with one, in the left, for the small azygos vein. Sometimes the large azygos vein pierces the right pillar instead of passing with the aorta. Take Dissection.— After the diaphragm has been learnt, the away , greater ribs that support it on each side may be cut through, and * Not very unfrequently this pillar may be found wanting.565 ABDOMINAL AORTA. the pieces of the ribs together with the diaphragm, except part of the pillars and the arches at the posterior part, may be taken phragm. away to facilitate the dissection of the deep vessels and muscles. The large vessels of the abdomen, viz. the aorta and the Aorta, vena cava, are now to be cleaned by removing from their branch^ surface the cellular membrane with the remains of the sym- es' pathetic nerve and the lymphatic glands; and their branches are also to be followed to the diaphragm, to the kidney and the supra-renal body, to the testicle, and to the lumbar ver tebrge and the spinal cord. In like manner the large iliac divisions of the aorta and cava are to be laid bare as far as Poupart's ligament. The ureter and the spermatic vessels are to be cleaned as they cross the iliac artery; and on this artery, branches of a small nerve (genito-crural), are to be sought near the thigh. The psoas, quadratus, and iliacus muscles are to be cleaned Dissect on the right side; but on the left side the fascia covering psoas* the muscles is to be shown, and the fat to be cleared away from about the kidney. The psoas muscle is the more in- Nerves ternal, and lies on the side of the spine: on its surface, and bar in the fat external to it, the branches of the lumbar plexus will be found. The genito-crural nerve lies on the front, and four other nerves issue at the outer border—the ilio- hypogastric and ilio-inguinal near the top, the external cutaneous about the centre, and the large anterior crural at the lower part. Along the inner border of the muscle the gangliated cord of the sympathetic is to be sought, with a chain of lumbar lymphatic glands; and somewhat below the pelvic part of the muscle, the obturator nerve. External to Dissect the psoas is the quadratus lumborum muscle, and crossing it tuSa?um- near the last rib is the last dorsal nerve, with an artery. In borum- the hollow of the os ilii is the iliacus muscle. Both these macus may be cleaned on the right side, whilst the fascia that covers them may be observed on the opposite side. The abdominal aorta extends from the last dorsal ver- Extent tebra to the left side of the body of the fourth lumbar ver- aorta! tebra, where it divides into the common iliac arteries. Its commencement is between the fleshy pillars of the diaphragm, and its termination is nearly on a level with the highest part of the crest of the ilium. The connections of the vessel Connec- o o 3 tions*566 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. with surrounding parts have been before referred to (p. 512.), and its branches now remain to be examined. Place of The branches of the aorta are numerous, and arise in the thegn° following order:—First, are the diaphragmatic arteries, two es; in number, which, if they arise separately, leave the sides of % the vessel immediately it appears in the abdomen. Close to the tendinous ring of the diaphragm the single trunk of the coeliac axis arises from the front of the aorta; and about a quarter of an inch lower down, also on its front, the trunk of the superior mesenteric artery begins. Half an inch lower the renal arteries, right and left, take origin from the sides of the aorta. On the fore part of the trunk, close above each renal, is the small capsular branch, and below the renal is the spermatic artery. From the front of the aorta, one to two inches above the bifurcation, springs the inferior mesenteric artery; and from the angle of division the' small middle sacral artery runs downwards. Four or five small lumbar arteries on each side come from the pos- terior part of the vessel, opposite the bodies of the corre- sponding vertebrae, their The branches may be classified into two sets, — one that cation." supplies the viscera of the abdomen (visceral), and another that is furnished to the abdominal walls (parietal), visceral A. The visceral branches are coeliac axis, superior and branch- , . , A . es. inferior mesenteric, renal, capsular, and spermatic. All this set, except the three last, viz. the renal, capsular, and sper- matic, have been examined (p. 506—516.). Renal The renal arteries leave the aorta nearly at a right angle, arte°' and are directed outwards, one on each side. Near the kidney each divides into four or five branches, which efi>ter is be- its substance between the vein and the* ureter. Each lies vein;1 s beneath its companion vein, being surrounded by a plexus of gives nerves, and supplies small twigs to the supra-renal capsule onsets. ^nferjor capSUlar)? to the ureter, and to the cellula^, mem- brane about the»kidney. Differ- The arteries of opposite sides have some differences. tween6" The left is the shortest, owing to the position of the aorta. !ight.nd The right crosses the spine, and passes beneath the vena cava. Varieties, both in the number, and the place of origin of this artery, are frequent. Capsular The middle capsular artery is a small branch that runs artery.BRANCHES OF £?HE AORTA. 567 o o 4 almost transversely outwards to the supra-renal body, to which it is distributed. This artery anastomoses with the other branches supplied to the supra-renal body by the renal and phrenic arteries. It is of large size in the foetus. The spermatic artery is destined for the testicle, and is Sperm- remarkable in being small in size in proportion to its length ; artery is in leaving the cavity of the abdomen; and in having the able, part in the abdomen straight, but that in the cord tortuous. From its origin below the renal, the vessel passes downwards bourse along the posterior wall of the abdomen, beneath the peri- testicle, toneum, to the internal abdominal ring, where it enters the spermatic cord, as before described (p. 478.). In the course specified, the vessel passes first along the front of the psoas, crossing over the ureter; and as it leaves the abdomen it turns round the epigastric artery, but is separated from that vessel by the vas deferens. On the right side the artery crosses the vena cava. It is accompanied by the spermatic vein, and the spermatic plexus of nerves. In the female the corresponding artery (ovarian) descends in the 1 . . , f female. into the pelvis to the ovary and the uterus. In the foetus, before the testicle leaves the abdomen, the condi- spermatic artery is very short, but the vessel becomes elon- foetus, gated in proportion as the part supplied is removed from its former site. B. The parietal branches of the aorta are the phrenic, Branch- lumbar, and middle sacral arteries. wall of The diaphragmatic or inferior phrenic arteries are directed men. upwards and outwards along the under surface of the dia- Jhrenfc phragm, near the posterior part, and end in anastomotic and muscular branches. The left artery passes behind the ceso- course of phageal opening, and the right behind the vena cava. Each and ends in two branches : — one (internal) passes onwards to- Distri. wards the fore part of the diaphragm, and anastomoses with butlon- its fellow of the opposite side, and with the branch (musculo- phrenic) that is supplied to the diaphragm, from the internal mammary (p. 263.); the other (external) is larger, and is directed outwards to the side of the muscle, where it meets with the intercostal arteries. Small tranches supplied to the supra-renal body by the external Small division of this artery are named superior capsular. Some twigs568 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. are given by the left artery to the oesophagus, and by the right to the vena cava. The other parietal branches, viz. lumbar and middle sacral, are not dissected out in this stage: the former will be seen after the lumbar plexus (p. 579.), and the latter in the pelvis. Extent The common iliac artery is directed outwards from the r^ina. bifurcation of the aorta to the base of the sacrum, and divides into two large trunks opposite the fibro-cartilage between that bone and the last lumbar vertebra:—one of these sup- plies the lower limb (external iliac), and the other enters connec- the pelvis (internal iliac). Placed obliquely on the vertebral column, the vessel measures about two inches in length, and is covered by the peritoneum, by branches of the sympathetic Branch- nerve, and sometimes by the ureter. To the outer side at es. first is the vena cava, and near its termination is the psoas muscle. It is accompanied by a vein of the same name. Usually it does not furnish any named branch, but it may give origin to the ilio-lumbar, or a renal artery. Differ. On opposite sides the vessels have some differences. The ence be- , . ! . tween artery of the right side is rather the longest, in consequence rig of the position of the aorta on the left side of the spine : the companion vein is at first beneath, but external to the artery at the upper part, where it enters the vena cava in that position; and beneath the right artery also is the left com- andieft mon iliac vein. The left artery is crossed by the continu- vessel. ... . ation of the inferior mesenteric artery, and the corresponding vein is situate below it. Place of Peculiarities. — The place of origin changes with that of the origin, kifurcation 0f the aorta. length; The length ranges from less than half an inch (in one case) to four inches and a half; but in the majority of instances, it varies between one inch and a half and three inches (Quain). place of The place of division oscillates between the middle of the last division. ium]3ar vertebra and the upper border of the sacrum, but occa- sionally it will be above or below those points. Generally the left artery divides lower than the right. This The external iliac artery is the commencement of the leSto leading vessel of the lower limb, and is contained in the iimb.r cavity of the abdomen. Its extent is from the bifurcation of Extent the common iliac to the lower border of Poupart's ligament,EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 569 where it becomes femoral; and its direction would be indi- and ch- eated, on the surface of the abdomen, by a line from the left of the umbilicus to the middle of the space between the symphysis pubis and the crest of the ilium. The vessel lies connec- above the brim of the pelvis, in its course to Poupart's liga- with ment, and is covered closely by the peritoneum in all its around, extent. Near its origin it is crossed sometimes by the ureter ; and near Poupart's ligament the thick layer of sub- peritoneal fat conceals the artery, whilst the spermatic ves- sels, and part of the genito-crural nerve here lie on it for a short distance; before the artery leaves the abdomen, the circumflex iliac vein crosses it, and the vas deferens bends down along its inner side. To the outer side of the vessel is the psoas, except at its termination under Poupart's liga- ment, where that muscle lies beneath it. A cbain of lymph- atic glands is placed along the front and the inner side of the artery. The position of the external iliac vein is not and with the same on both sides. On the left side the vein is alto- gether internal to the artery; whilst on the right side the vein, though internal in position on the pubes, afterwards lies beneath the arterial trunk. Two large branches, epigastric and circumflex iliac, arise Two from the artery a few lines from its end, and are distributed es: to the wall of the abdomen (p. 480.) : but the number of the branches may be altered by the epigastric being transferred from it, or the other being divided into two. Some small unnamed twigs are given by it to the psoas muscle and the lymphatic glands. Peculiarities. — In position of usual branches. — The epigastric origin and circumflex branches may wander over the part of the artery vanes> between Poupart's ligament and one inch and a half, or two inches and a half above that band: of the two the epigastric arises highest. In unusual branches. — Though the trunk of the vessel is com- occa- monly free from any unusual branch, it may be occupied between "ranches the end and the middle by the obturator artery, or further on by from iL the internal circumflex artery of the thigh. Veins. — The veins of the abdomen correspond so closely veins of to the arteries, both in the number, extent, and connections domen", of the trunks, as to render unnecessary the same detail as in v?naPt the description of the arteries. Further, as the veins in- port£e- crease in size, from the circumference towards the centre ofDISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 570 the body, those most distant from the heart will be first described. Anato- The external iliac continues the femoral vein to the ab- external domen beneath Poupart's ligament. It has an extent like that of the artery of the same name, and ends by uniting with the vein from the pelvis (internal iliac) to form the Position common iliac vein. On the pubes it is on the same level to artery . . . 7 as the artery, and lies mside it between the psoas and pec- tineus muscles; but this position is not retained throughout, for, though the left vein remains internal to, the right slips beneath its artery. Branch. The veins that open into it are the epigastric and circumflex iliac (p. 481.). Com- The common iliac vein ascends by the side of its com- iliac panion artery, the right almost vertically, and the left form obliquely, to the right side of the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra (the upper part), wThere the two are blended in one Differ, trunk—the vena cava. The right vein is the shortest, and ence in length is at first behind, but afterwards outside the artery of the nections. same side. The left is altogether below the artery of its own side, and moreover crosses beneath the right common iliac artery. Veins to Each receives the ilio-lumbar, and the lateral sacral it. . ' branch sometimes; and the common iliac of the left side is joined by the middle sacral vein. Place Peculiarities. — Instead of the common iliac veins uniting at the the veins spot mentioned, they may be continued upwards, one on each side changiy °f tne aorta, as high as the kidney, before the left crosses the spine to join the right, and give origin to the vena cava. In these cases the vein on the left side receives one renal vein, and the two common iliacs are connected by a small intervening branch at the spot where they are usually united. Lower The vena cava inferior collects, and conveys to the bytide heart the blood of the lower half of the body. Taking aorta? origin, as before said, on the right side of the fifth lumbar vertebra, rather below the bifurcation of the aorta, this large vein ascends on the right side of the vertebral column, Extent and reaches the heart by perforating the diaphragm. Its nections". connections with the surrounding parts have been already described (p. 513.). Branch- In this course the cava receives parietal branches from the es rom wall of the abdomen and the diaphragm, and visceral571 BRANCHES OF THE VENA CAVA INFERIOR. branches from the testicle, the kidney, the supra-renal body, abdo- and the liver. The veins belonging to the digestive appa- exce'pt ratus, viz. to the intestinal canal, the spleen, and the pan- aP|traIe creas, are united to form the vena portse (p. 519.); and thetus- blood circulating in those veins reaches the cava only after it has circulated through the liver, and then through the indirect channel of the veins of the liver, — the vense cava3 hepaticae. The lumbar veins enter the posterior part of the vena Lumbar cava, and correspond in number and course to the arteries of after, the same name : they will be dissected with those arteries. The spermatic vein enters the abdomen by the internal sperm- M m J atic vein abdominal ring, after forming the spermatic plexus in the cord (p. 478.). At first the vein consists of two branches in the abdomen, which lie on the sides of the spermatic artery; but these soon merge into one trunk, which ends on the left end« <*if- ... ferently side in the renal vein, opening into it at right angles : and on left . . ° . ° and right the right side, in the inferior cava, which it pierces obliquely sides, below the renal vein. As the vein ascends to its destina- tion, it receives one or more branches from the wall of the abdomen, and from the fat about the kidney. In the female this vein (ovarian) has the same ending as vein in in the male, and it forms a plexus in the broad ligament of female, the uterus. The renal or emulgent vein is of large size, and joins the Renal vena cava at a right angle. It commences, by many branches, position in the kidney; and the trunk resulting from their union is [°™.~ superficial to the renal artery. The right is the shortest, differ, and joins the cava higher up than the other. The left vein two crosses the aorta close to the origin of the superior mesen- teric artery : it receives separate branches from the spermatic B ranch- and supra-renal veins of the same side. The supra-renal vein is of considerable size when it is supra, compared with that of the body from which it comes. On endsdif- the right side it opens into the cava, and on the left side into ferently' the renal vein. The diaphragmatic veins (inferior), two for each artery, Phrenic spring from the under surface of the diaphragm. They join velns' the cava either as one trunk or two. The hepatic veins enter the cava where it is in contact Hepatic with the liver. These veins are described in the dissection before of the liver (p. 547.).572 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Vena' Peculiarities of the vena cava.—In position.—Where trans- beVaisoay position of the viscera exists, the vena cava is found on the left on^ett Q£ Spine> j>U£ without that transposition the vein may be or "* on the left side of the aorta as high as the renal vein, before it part, ° 7 crosses that vessel to take its usual place, or may In ending. — Instead of opening into the heart, the lower cava the azy- may De found entering the upper cava; and in these rare instances gos vein. jt finds its way to that vessel by entering the intercostal or azygos vein. In this condition the inferior cava is wanting at the heart, and the blood from the lower part of the body is then transmitted to the heart by the superior cava. Should this deviation exist, the hepatic veins would form a separate trunk, and open into the right auricle in the situation of the inferior cava. THE DEEP MUSCLES. The deep muscles in the interior of the abdomen, that re- main to be learnt, are the psoas, iliacus, and quadratus lum- ber um. Some fasciae are also to be seen in connection with the muscles. Psoas The psoas magnus reaches from the lumbar vertebrae to sitauan-US' the femur, and is situate partly in the abdomen and partly origin, in the thigh. The muscle arises from the front of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae ; from the bodies of the last dorsal and all the lumbar vertebrae by five pro- cesses, but it is not attached to all the side of the vertebrae, for each process is connected only with the upper and lower border of the two contiguous vertebrae, and their interver- Direc- tebral substance. The fibres are directed downwards, and the give rise to a roundish muscle, which gradually diminishes towards Poupart's ligament. Inferiorly the muscle ends in a tendon on the outer aspect, which receives the fibres of the iliacus, and passes beneath Poupart's ligament to be inser- inserted behind the small trochanter of the femur, and into the contiguous part of the bone. Connec- The abdominal part of the muscle has the following con- infront, nections : —in front of it are the internal arch of the dia- phragm, the kidney with its vessels and duct, the spermatic vessels and the genito-crural nerve, and, near Poupart's behind; ligament, the ending of the external iliac artery. Poste- riorly the muscle is in contact with the transverse processes, with part of the quadratus lumborum, and with the innomi-THE DEEP MUSCLES. 573 nate bone. The outer border touches the quadratus and of outer iliacus, and branches of the lumbar plexus issue from be- border' neath it. The inner border is partly connected to the ver-of inner tebvve, and is partly free along the margin of the pelvis: — along the vertebral part of this border lie the sympathetic along; nerve and some lumbar glands, with the cava on the right, pelviC and the aorta on the left side ; along the pelvic part of the muscle are the external iliac artery and vein, and the obtu- rator nerve below. It has been before said that the muscle and ver- is connected only with the margins of the vertebrae; and it part, may be seen that, opposite the centre of those bones, the fibres are attached to tendinous arches over the lumbar vessels. Psoas parvus is a small muscle with a long and flat Psoas tendon, which is placed on the front of the large psoas, but originV is rarely present. Its fibres arise from the bodies of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae, and their intervening fibro-cartilage, like the large psoas. Its tendon becomes broader inferiorly, and is inserted into the ilio-pectineal inser- eminence and the brim of the pelvis. The tendon is con- ; nected with the fascia covering the iliacus muscle. absent. The iliacus muscle occupies the hollow (iliac fossa) on niacus the inner aspect of the os ilii, and is blended inferiorly' with form of the psoas muscle. It is triangular in form, and has a fleshy foseSa.iac origin from the iliac fossa and the ilio-lumbar ligament, origin; from the base of the sacrum, and in front from the capsule of the hip-joint. The fibres pass inwards to the tendon of the psoas, uniting with it even to its insertion into the inser- femur, and some reach separately that bone. Above Pou- part's ligament the muscle is covered on both sides by the covering iliac fascia: but in front of the right is the caecum, and in opposite ° sides. front of the left muscle is the sigmoid flexure. Beneath it are the innominate bone and the capsule of the hip-joint. The inner margin is in contact with the psoas and the To the anterior crural nerve. The connections of the united psoas skteis and iliacus below Poupart's ligament are given with the psoas, dissection of the thigh. The quadratus lumborum is a short thick muscle be- This tween the crest of the ilium and the last rib. About two has two inches wide inferiorly, it arises from the ilio-vertebral liga-o^er~~ ment, and the crest of the ilium anterior to it. The fibres i^g^tisDISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 574 and pos- ascend to be inserted into the lower border of the last rib tenor, ^ ^ variable distance, and by distinct fleshy and tendinous slips, into the apices of the transverse processes of the last dorsal and the four or five upper lumbar vertebras, as well as into the body of the last dorsal vertebra. Occasionally and in- there is an anterior stratum of fibres, at the upper part, anterior, which is attached internally to the tips of the transverse processes of the three middle lumbar vertebras, and exter- itis nally to the lower border of the last rib. This muscle is contain- . . edina incased in a sheath derived from the fascia lumborum. Crossing the surface are branches of the lumbar plexus, together with the last dorsal nerve. Beneath the quadratus is the mass of the erector spinas muscle. Fascia Fascia of the quadratus,—Covering the surface of the quadra- quadratus is a thin membrane, which is derived from the ' tus tendon of the transversalis abdominis (fascia lumborum, p. 403.), and passes in front of the quadratus to be fixed to the roots of the transverse processes, above to the crest forms of the ilium, and belowT to the last rib. This fascia forms elterii.' the thickened band called ligamentum arcuatum externum. Iliac Fascia of the iliacus and psoas. — This fascia covers the fascia |wo niuscles, and extends in different directions as far as joined by their attachments. Over the iliacus muscle the membrane of small is thickest; and a strong accession is received from the attach- tendon of the small psoas, when that muscle is present. Its below disposition at Poupart's ligament, and the part that it takes in the formation of the crural sheath have been before internal- explained (p. 491.). When traced inwards over the psoas, to pelvis the membrane will be found to be inserted into the os ilii near the brim of the pelvis ; and when followed upwards it will be seen to become thin, to be fixed on the one side to the lumbar vertebras and the ligamentum arcuatum inter- num, and to be blended on the other with the fascia on the and the quadratus : at its attachment to the vertebras it has the brsef" same digitate and arched condition as the psoas. The fascia should be divided over the psoas on the left side, and re- flected towards the brim of the pelvis. Trace* Dissection,— The student is now to clean the lymphatic lymph- glands that lie along the vertebrae, and to trace upwards atlcs* some lymphatic vessels to the thoracic duct. To show the commencement of the duct the diaphragm is to be divided575 THORACIC DUCT. — AZYGOS VEINS. over the aorta, and its pillars thrown to each side; then a piece may be cut out of the aorta opposite the first lumbar vertebra. The beginning of the duct (chyli receptaculum) ^ndthe and of the vena azygos may now be well seen, and may be tacuium, followed upwards into the thorax, veins, On the left side the student may trace the splanchnic spianch- nerves and the small vena azygos through the pillar of the nerves, diaphragm, and show the trunk of the sympathetic nerve entering the abdomen beneath the arch over the psoas muscle. Lymphatic glands, — A chain of glands is placed along Lumbar the side of the external iliac artery, and along the front and atics of J ° the ab- sides of the lumbar vertebrae; these are connected by short domen tubes which increase in size and diminish in number until at the upper part of the lumbar vertebrae only three trunks end in . n i i t i one duct. remain to iorm the common thoracic duct. Into these glands the lymphatics of the lower limb, those of the viscera Ducts and wall of the abdomen, and those of the genital organs |"ands!g and testicle are received. Receptaculum chyli. — The thoracic duct begins in the Begin- abdomen, by the union of three or four large lymphatic ves- the tho- sels. Its commencement is marked by a considerable dila- duct, tation, which is named receptaculum, and is placed on the right side of the aorta, about opposite the second lumbar on right vertebra. The duct then enters the thorax by passing at second through the diaphragm with the aorta, vertebra. Beginning of the azygos veins. — The right vein (vena Large azygos major) begins opposite the first or second lumbar vein; vertebra by a small branch, that is continuous with a lumbar vein, or, it may be, with the vena cava or the renal vein. However formed, the vein enters the thorax with the thoracic entrance duct and the aorta, to the right of which it lies ; but it may thorax, pierce the crus of the diaphragm, as it leaves the abdomen. The left or small azygos vein begins on the left side of the small spine, joining here one of the lumbar veins or the renal vein.08, vein, and passes through the pillar of the diaphragm, or through the aortic opening. The anatomy of these veins is given in the description of the thorax, p. 383.576 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Section VI. LUMBAR SPINAL NERYES AND THE CORD OF THE SYMPATHETIC. The spinal nerves of the loins resemble those in the lower part of the neck, in being united in a plexus, and supplying a limb, and the parts of the trunk contiguous to it. Dissec- Dissection.—The lumbar nerves and their plexus are to thTium- he seen on the left side, and to bring them into view, the pfexus dissector should scrape away the left psoas. For the most Side?** part the fleshy fibres may be removed freely; but a small branch (accessory of the obturator) should be looked for at first at the inner border of the muscle. In the substance of the quadratus lumborum a communication may sometimes be found between the last dorsal and the first lumbar nerve, and of The branches of the sympathetic that join the spinal nerves nerves are to be followed along the lumbar arteries, jommg Qn tjie pjgkj. g^e pSoas mav ke left untouched to see and on at what places the nerves issue from it. right. r Four Spinal Lumbar Nerves. — The anterior primary branches n"™besr °f tne lumbar nerves, except the last, enter into the lumbar piexusj16 plexus. Five in number, they increase in size from the first to the last, and are joined by filaments of the sympa- and thetic near the intervertebral foramina. They supply muscfes; branches also to the psoas and quadratus lumborum muscles, fifth The fifth or lowest nerve receives a communicating branch sacral from the fourth nerve, and descends into the pelvis to enter named the sacral plexus. After this nerve is joined by the offset sacraT." from the fourth, the name lumbosacral is applied to the common trunk. Plexus The lumbar plexus is formed by loops of communica- formed. tion between the four highest lumbar nerves. Contained in situa. the substance of the psoas, near its posterior part, the plexus t101" increases in size from above downwards, like the individual Connec nerves. Superiorly a connection is sometimes found be- with tween the first lumbar and the last dorsal nerve, and infe- riorly the large lumbo-sacral cord unites the lumbar and sacral plexuses. nerves.BRANCHES OF THE LUMBAR PLEXUS. 577 %. The branches of the plexus supply the lower part of the six abdominal wall, the for£ part of the thigh, and the inner es, viz. side of the leg ; they aite six in number, viz.: — The ilio-hypogastric branch is derived from the first nerve, nio- and appears at the outer border of the psoas muscle, near the gastric upper part : this and the following branch are cutaneous nerves of the buttock and the lower part of the trunk. The is the branch is directed over the quadratus lumborum to the crest branch, of the ilium, and enters the wall of the abdomen by travers- ing the transversalis abdominis. Its termination in the Course ° in abdo- integuments of the buttock and abdomen, by means of an men. iliac and a hypogastric branch, has been already mentioned (p. 462.). The ilio-inguinal branch arises with the preceding from iiio- nai the first nerve, and issues from the psoas nearly at the same arises spot. Of smaller size than the ilio-hypogastric, this branch preced- courses outwards over the quadratus and iliacus muscles m°' towards the front of the crest of the ilium, where it pierces the transversalis abdominis. The farther course of the nerve andac- compa- in the abdominal wall, and its distribution over the scrotum nies it. and the groin, are before noticed (pp. 462. 475.). The size of this nerve depends upon that of the ilio-hypo- May be gastric branch ; and the nerve may be absent if the latter is large. The qenito-crural nerve is distributed, as the name ex- Genito- v . , crural presses, to the genital organs and the limb. It arises from the second lumbar nerve, and from the connecting loop be- tween this and the first: it soon pierces the fibres of the pierces psoas, and descending on the surface of the muscle divides PS°as> into a genital and a crural branch. Sometimes the nerve is and divided in the psoas, and the branches perforate separately ?ntodes the muscle. a. The genital branch descends on the external iliac ar- genital . . and tery, and furnishes offsets around it; it passes from the abdomen with the spermatic vessels, and is distributed in the cremaster muscle. In the female the nerve is lost in the round ligament. b. The crural branch issues beneath Poupart's ligament crural to supply the integument of the thigh. See Cutaneous Nerves of the Thigh. The external cutaneous nerve of the thigh arises from the course ° of this P PDISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 578 nerve in second nerve of the plexus, or from the loop between it and domen" the third, and appears about the middle of the outer border thereach °^ Psoas- ^ne nerve tnen takes an oblique course across thigh, the iliacus to the interval between the anterior spinous processes of the ilium, and leaves the abdomen beneath Poupart's ligament, to be distributed on the outer aspect of the limb. Origin The anterior crural nerve is by far the largest offset of nerve! the plexus, and supplies branches to the extensor muscles of the knee joint, and the front of the thigh. Taking origin from the third and fourth nerves, and receiving a fasciculus also from the second, this large nerve appears towards the tathe°n ^ower Part °^^ne psoas, and then lies in the hollow between abdo- that muscle and the iliacus. It passes from the abdomen men; m * its beneath Poupart's ligament; but before its final branching branches t^ thigh, the nerve furnishes the following twigs : — to ilia- Some small branches are given to the iliacus from the €US' outer side of the nerve, whilst it lies in contact with that muscle. toi«mo- A branch to the femoral artery is distributed around tery.r" the upper part of that vessel : its place of origin varies much. obtura- The obturator nerve appertains to the adductor muscles of nerve in the thigh. Derived from the third and fourth nerves in the donfen; plexus, it is directed beneath the psoas to the inner or pelvic border; escaped from oeneath that muscle the nerve crosses the pelvic cavity below the external iliac, but above the ob- toj-each turator vessels, and enters the thigh through the aperture in thigh; the upper part of the thyroid foramen. Occasionally the obturator gives origin to the following branch: — its ac- The accessory obturator nerve arises near the beginning c6Ssory branch of the trunk of the obturator, or from the third and fourth nerves of the plexus. Its course is along the inner border of the psoas, beneath the investing fascia, and over the surface supplies of the os pubis to the thigh, where it ends by joining the ob- turator nerve, and supplying the hip joint. Sympa- GaNGLIATED CORD OF THE SYMPATHETIC. The lumbar thetic cord in part of the gangliated cord of the sympathetic in the abdomen ciomen is placed on the side of the spinal column, and is continuous upwards, beneath the inner arch of the diaphragm, with the thoracic, and downwards with the pelvic part of the sameLUMBAR ARTERIES. 579 p p 2 cord. It lies along the inner border of the psoas muscle, joins n i 1.1 . that in nearer the front of the vertebrae than the like part in the thorax; thorax, and is somewhat concealed on the right side by the vena cava. Each cord presents four or five oblong ganglia |j*sfi^r opposite the bodies of the vertebrae; and from these, connect- ganglia; ing branches to the spinal nerves, and branches of distribu- tion are supplied. a. Connecting branches. — From each ganglion two small their branches are directed backwards, along the centre of the to either body of the vertebra, with the lumbar artery; these unite spinal with the anterior division of a spinal nerve near the inter- vertebral foramen, or they are often divided between two spinal nerves. The connecting branches are longest in the lumbar region, in consequence of the cord being carried for- wards by the psoas muscle to the fore part of the vertebras. b. Branches for distribution, — Most of the internal or the branches throw themselves into the aortic and hypogastric for the plexuses, and so reach the viscera indirectly. Some filaments ofthlf , , i i • i• viscera. enter the vertebrae and their connecting ligaments. Last dorsal nerve.—The anterior division of the last dorsal This, nerve resembles the other intercostal nerves in its distribu- Hkethe tion, but differs from them in not being contained in an in- costal, tercostal space. Lying below the last rib, the nerve is directed outwards across the upper part of the quadratus lumborum, and beneath the fascia covering that muscle. At Course ' _ „ _ n . . ■ wall the outer border oi the quadratus it pierces the posterior of the aponeurosis of the transversalis abdominis (fascia lumborum), men.' enters the wall of the abdomen, and ends in an abdominal and a cutaneous branch (p. 462.). Near the spine it fur- nishes a small branch to the quadratus muscle; and it may communicate by means of this with the first lumbar nerve. An offset from the first lumbar artery accompanies the nerve. The lumbar arteries are some of the parietal branches Five in of the aorta (p. 566.), and are furnished to the spinal canal on each and the wall of the abdomen : they resemble the aortic inter- '.. ' J like the costal branches in their course and distribution. Commonly j,1^- five in number on each side, these arteries arise opposite the centre of the vertebrae, and the vessels of opposite sides are« sometimes joined in a common trunk: they then pass back- Course wards in the hollow of the vertebrae, beneath the pillar of the %DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 580 and ter- diaphragm and the psoas, to reach the intervals between the mina- tion m transverse processes, where each ends in an abdominal and a dorsal branch, The arteries of the right side pass beneath the vena cava. a branch The dorsal branch continues onwards to the back be- to the back, tween the transverse processes, and supplies a branch to the spinal canal. The distribution of the artery is described with the vessels of the back and those of the spinal cord (pp. 416. 430.). and a b. The abdominal branches are directed outwards beneath branch to the the quadratus lumborum, the first being the largest, and Avail Of . n the ab- enter the posterior part of the abdominal wall, where they d0men- -ill • • n * i • anastomose with the lower intercostal, the circumflex iliac, and the ilio-lumbar arteries : these branches supply the psoas and quadratus muscles. The branch of the first, and sometimes that of the last artery, is superficial to the quad- ratus ; and the size of the last two varies with that of the ilio-lumbar offset of the internal iliac artery. The The lumbar veins are the same in number, and have the veins re- , ~ . . n sembie same course as the arteries. Commencing by the union ot ries, a dorsal and an abdominal branch at the root of the trans- verse process, the trunk of the vein is directed forwards with and open the artery to the vena cava. These vessels open into the into the n ♦ \ c^a; posterior part of the cava, either singly, or conjointly with left those of the opposite side. The veins of the left side are longest. longer than those of the right, and pass beneath the aorta. a plexus Beneath the psoas muscle the lumbar veins communicate is formed around freely around the transverse processes with one another, trans- with the ilio-lumbar, and sometimes with the common iliac, verse process- so as to form a plexus of veins. Issuing from the plexus on each side is a venous trunk, the ascending lumbar vein, which joins the azygos vein of the corresponding half of the body.581 FASCIA OF THE PELVIS. CAVITY OF THE PELVIS. The cavity of the pelvis is but a part of the general abdo- pefim- minal space (p. 493.), and is situate below the brim or inlet and situ- of the true pelvis. Boundaries. — The space is surrounded by the firm bony Bound- ring of the pelvic bones, and therefore admits of little alter- ation in its form or capacity. Behind it is bounded by the sacrum and the coccyx, and, laterally and in front, by the in- nominate bones covered by the obturator muscles. Inferiorly, or towards the perinseum, the cavity is limited by the fascia reflected from the wall to the viscera, and by the levatores ani and coccygei muscles : it is only in this last direction, where the bounding structures are moveable, that alterations ■tan be made in the capacity of the space. Contents, — In the interior are contained the* urinary Con- tents. bladder, the lower end of the large intestine, or the rectum, and some of the generative organs according to the sex. All these parts have vessels, nerves, and lymphatics dis- tributed to them, and the serous membrane is reflected over them. Section I. FASCIA OF "THE PELVIS AND MUSCLES OF THE OUTLET. On the wall of the pelvis is a thin fascia (pelvic), which ex- outline tends from the brim to the outlet, and covers the obturator fascia of muscle. At a certain level a visceral portion is directed in- vis6.pel" wards from it to the rectum and the bladder, and this is named recto-vesical fascia from the viscera with which it is connected. Dissection. — To bring into view the parietal part, or the steps to pelvic fascia, the external iliac vessels, and the psoas if this has the pel- not been removed in the dissection of the lumbar plexus, are da. as" to be taken away on the left side of the body. The obturator vessels and nerve are to be cut away on the same side; p p 3582 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. and the peritoneum being detached from the wall of the pelvis, the fascia will be seen on scraping away a large quantity of fat with the handle of the scalpel. But the membrane is now apparent only in its upper half, or as low as the situation of the piece that is prolonged inwards to the viscera; to see its lower half, the student must raise the pelvis and look to the fascia covering the outer wall of the ischio-rectal fossa. Should the perineum be undissected, the fat must now be taken from the hollow referred to. If the scalpel be pushed upwards in the fossa, it will enter the pelvis where the visceral joins the parietal piece, and will mark the position of the levator ani muscle between the two. Fascia The pelvic fascia is a thin membrane in close contact with wan of the obturator muscle, and is fixed to the bone around the xls.vel~ attachment of the fleshy fibres, so that it might be called the its at- special fascia (obturator) of that muscle. Superiorly it ment reaches the brim of the pelvis for a short distance at the fheob- lateral aspect of the cavity ; in front of that spot it quits the muscle; brim, and, still following the muscle, forms an arch below the obturator vessels, whilst farther to the middle line it is fixed along an oblique line near the lower part of the sym- physis pubis. Inferiorly the fascia is attached to the margin of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, and to the rami of the ischium and pubes ; but below the pubic arch it is con- tinued from the one bone to the other for a certain distance, partly ^o as to join the recto-vesical piece at this spot, and to close aperture the front of the cavity of the pelvis. At a certain level, viz. in front3; that of a line prolonged from the lower part of the symphysis pubis to the spine of the ischium, the fascia sends inwards gives off the recto-vesical piece to the viscera of the pelvis: the vesical origin of this offset is indicated by a whitish band, which plece" marks also the attachment of the levator ani muscle beneath. Connec- The outer surface of the fascia is in contact with the obtu- the rator muscle. The inner surface, above the origin of the recto-vesical piece, is in the cavity of the pelvis, but below tiat spot, in the ischio-rectal fossa. At the posterior border of the obturator muscle a thin membrane is continued back- wards to the front of the sacrum, over the sacral plexus and the pyriformis muscle, but beneath the vessels, by which it is perforated. Different It may here be remarked that the term " pelvic " is not terms583 PARTS IN THE OUTLET OF THE PELVIS. always applied, as in the previous description, to the fascia applied in its whole extent from the brim to the outlet of the pelvis, fascia, but that the name " obturator " is given to the half of it below the recto-vesical piece. Those who make this dis- tinction describe the pelvic fascia as dividing into obturator and recto-vesical layers at the level of the line mentioned. The recto-vesical fascia may now be seen in a measure ; Recto- •/ J vesical but it will be better displayed after the innominate bone has i^yer been taken away for the purpose of giving a side view of the pelvis. * Dissection.—To obtain a side view of the pelvis it will be How t0 r . . remove necessary to separate one innominate bone, say the left. The *ej&- pelvic fascia is first to be detached from the bone and the gate obturator muscle, but without destroying the attachments of the white band of the fascia before and behind. The inno- minate bone is then to be sawn through in front rather ex- ternal to the symphysis; and the lateral part of the sacrum is likewise to be sawn through. After the innominate bone has been somewhat separated from the rest of the pelvis, the spine of the ischium with the pelvic fascia attached to it may be cut off with a bone forceps, and then the rest of the bone may be removed by cutting through the pyriformis muscle, the vessels and nerves passing through the sacro- ischiatic notch, and any other structure that may be attached to it, A small block is afterwards to be placed beneath the Prepara- tion of pelvis; the bladder is to be moderately distended with air ; the and some tow is to be introduced into the rectum, also into the vagina of the female, as well as a small piece into the pouch of the peritoneum between the bladder and the rectum. After the viscera are thus made prominent, the recto-vesical fascia and the spine of the ischium should be raised with hooks, whilst the surfaces of the levator ani and coccygeus muscles are cleaned. Parts closing the outlet of the pelvis, — In addition to the ^outlet recto-vesical fascia, the following parts fill the large outk> ;^f Closed the dried pelvis. Beginning behind, the student will first meet by with the pyriformis, passing through the great sacro-sciatic pyri- i i • -vr i formis, notch, with the gluteal artery and nerve above it. .Next he by coccyge- will come to the coccygeus muscle, with the sacro-sciatic us, and ligament stretched between the spine of the ischium and the sciaticDISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 584 ments, ■with vessels and nerves liga- coccyx, one border of the muscle reaching towards the pyriformis, and the other to the levator ani; and between the posterior border and the pyriformis will be the sacral plexus of nerves, and the sciatic and pudic vessels. The greater part of the rest of the space will be seen to be closed by leva- by the levator ani, which extends forwards from the coccy- tor am, J 7 * geus and the spine of the ischium, to the posterior part of the pelvic7 symPnvsis pubis, and meets its fellow inferiorly; but, in below fr°n*> *ne muscles of opposite sides are separated by the the urethra and the prostate gland, and the interval between Pukes. m L . . them is closed by the fascia lining the pelvis. Coccy- The coccygeus muscle is flat and triangular, and assists gens; . origin t0 close the outlet of the pelvis. It arises by a narrow part from the spine of the ischium, and some fibres are attached to the small sacro-sciatic ligament, Widening as it passes and in. inwards, the muscle is inserted into the side of the coccyx sertion. 7 J Connec- an(^ tne lower part of the sacrum. The inner surface looks surlaces to tne pelvis, and is in contact with the rectum on the left side ; the opposite surface rests on the small sacro-sciatic and ligament. The posterior border is contiguous to the pyri- borders. * . , , n . . n formis muscle, only vessels and nerves intervening, and the anterior or lower border is parallel to the levator ani muscle. evator The levator ani is a thin flat muscle, which is attached skua* above to the side of the pelvis, and descends below into the tlon' outlet of that cavity, where it joins its fellow, and supports Origin the viscera. It arises anteriorly by fleshy fibres from an bony7 oblique line on the posterior aspect of the pubes, and pos- partiy teriorly, from the inner surface of the spine of the ischium ; branous. and between those two points of bone the muscle takes origin from the under part of the recto-vesical fascia, along the line of the white band before alluded to (p. 582.). All the fibres are directed downwards to the middle line of the inser- body, to be inserted after the following manner: — The along anterior, the longest, descend by the side of the prostate line of and join, anterior to the rectum, with the muscle of the the peri- , . naeum. opposite side in the central point 01 the pennseum ; the middle fibres are inserted into the side of the rectum ; whilst the posterior meet the opposite muscle behind the gut, and are also attached to the side of the coccyx, as before de- Borders scribed in the dissection of the perinaBum (p. 441.). The and'585 RECTOVESICAL FASCIA. anterior fibres of the levator are in contact with the fascia that closes the pelvic cavity below the arch of the pubes, and the posterior are parallel to the coccygeus muscle. The upper surface is contiguous to the recto-vesical fascia, surfaces, and the viscera of the pelvis ; and the under surface looks to the perinaeum (ischio-rectal fossa). The two muscles, by their union, form a fleshy layer or diaphragm across the outlet of the pelvis, similar to that which separates the Two abdomen from the chest : this partition is convex below and form a concave above, and gives passage to the rectum. In front ^har"agm there is an interval between the anterior fibres, which allows the urethra, together with the vagina in the female, to pass from the pelvis. The anterior part of the muscle that descends by the side ^rteesrior of the prostate, and unites with its fellow below the mem- named! r 7 ^ levator branous part of the urethra, thus supporting that canal as in Pj-os- a sling, has been named levator seu compressor prostatce. Dissection. — The recto-vesical fascia will be seen by de- Dissec- . . tlon fof taching the fleshy fibres of the levator ani at their origin, the and the coccygeus muscle from the spine of the ischium, and ^F*1 throwing both downwards. Below the spot at which the fascia reaches the side of the prostate gland and the rectum it gives sheaths to those viscera; and to demonstrate these sheaths one incision is to be made along the prostate, and tetfM another along the lower end of the rectum, below the attach- ment of the fascia. The recto-vesical fascia is derived from the pelvic fascia, Recto- u *■ vesical and supports and partly invests the viscera of the pelvis. fas&ia Arising, as before said, on a level with the band that extends arises 0 # from from the pubes to the spine of the ischium, the fascia is Pelv.ic A 1 ' fascia, directed inwards on the levator ani, and has the following disposition on the viscera: —In the middle line in front it is and is reflected ' continued from the back of the pubes to the apex and the on to the A * viscera, upper surface of the prostate ; here it closes the pelvis be- ^PP°rt- fore the levatores ani, and forms on each side of the middle them, line a roundish band, the anterior ligament of the bladder. More to the side, the fascia is attached to the lateral part of the prostate and to the side of the bladder, giving rise to the lateral vesical ligament. And still farther back it reaches the side of the rectum. The fascia does not cease, where it gives it meets the viscera, by becoming blended with their coats, to theDISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 586 pros- ^ but is continued downwards around the prostate and the rec- rectum, turn, so as to form sheaths for those viscera, below the level of its attachment to them. The sheath that is prolonged on the gut becomes thin and cellular towards the anus ; whilst that on the prostate is separated from its viscus by a plexus of veins (prostatic), and sends an offset backwards to incase and the vesiculse seminales. The recto-vesical fasciae of opposite forms > A A part of sides form a partition, like that of the levatores ani muscles, the floor r ' of the across the pelvis, which is perforated by the prostate and the rectum; but in the case of the fascia the viscera receive sheaths from the membrane as they pass through it. Fascia in the female the fascia has much the same arrangement m the ° female. as in the male ; but the vagina, instead of the prostate, per- forates the membrane, and receives a tube from it. Pieces of The true ligaments of the bladder are two on each side, fascia, anterior and lateral, and are derived from the recto-vesical fascia. form the a. The anterior reaches from the posterior aspect of the pubes to the upper surface of the prostate, and the neck of the bladder: it is a narrow white band, and encloses some muscular fibres of the bladder. Between the ligaments of opposite sides, the recto-vesical fascia dips down to reach the apex of the prostate, faterai ^' ^e ^atera^ ^9ameni *s a piece of the same fascia, that merits *S ^xe^ to tne lateral Part °ftne prostate gland, at the upper of the border, and to the side of the bladder on the same level. bladder. 7 False There are other ligaments of the bladder (false ligaments), merits of which are derived from the peritoneum investing it, and will bladder. ^e geen 'n ftiQ f0Uowing section. Section II. CONNECTIONS OF THE VISCERA IN THE MALE. Dissec- Directions.—If the student should be dissecting a female female pelvis, he will find the description of it at page 594. con"' Contents and position. — The viscera in the cavity of the the^- ma^e pelvis are the lower end of the large intestine (rectum) ; vis- the bladder with its excretory tube — the urethra ; together with some generative organs, viz. the seminal vesicles and their ducts, These have the following situation : —587 CONNECTIONS OF THE VISCERA IN THE MALE. The rectum is behind all, and takes a curved course, with outline r of their the convexity backwards, along the front of the sacrum and position, the coccyx. The bladder is placed in the concavity of the rectum, its neck being surrounded by the prostate gland; and the urethra curves forwards from it above the tube of the intestine. Beneath the bladder—that is to say, between it and the rectum, — are the little seminal sacs with their ducts. These organs are partly surrounded by the peri- toneum. Dissection.—All the recto-vesical fascia, except the ante- Take rior ligament of the bladder, may now be taken from the fascia J .,. and viscera. The obliterated remnant of the internal iliac artery some vessels. (hypogastric) should next be followed forwards, along the bladder, from the back of the pelvis ; but the other branches of the same artery to the lower limb are to be cut through. When the fat and the vessels have been cleared away, the pouch of the peritoneum, in which wool has been placed, will be brought into view, with the ureter passing to the bladder. The prostate may now be cleaned, and the vesiculae semi- The nales which are behind it defined: the part of the bladder Jiscen! below the peritoneum is likewise to be prepared, and at the cleaned, same time the vas deferens, which lies on the lateral aspect of that viscus, is to be followed down to the seminal sacs. Lastly, the cellular layer is to be removed from the part of the rectum below the peritoneum, but the branches to it from the inferior mesenteric artery are to be preserved. If the bladder has become flaccid, half fill it with air, in order that its connections may be studied. The peritoneum does not envelop the viscera of the pelvis The pe- so completely as those of the upper part of the abdomen, um After partly surrounding the upper portion of the rectum, and fixing it by a process—meso-rectum, the membrane can covers be traced to the back of the bladder, where it projects for the some way between this viscus and the rectum, forming the recto-vesical pouch. On each side of the rectum the serous membrane is arrested by the internal iliac-artery, and gives rise to a fold, the posterior ligament of the bladder. Tracing the peritoneum upwards on the bladder, the student will find and it covering all the posterior surface ; and the posterior part thetly of each lateral region, as far forwards as the position of the588 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. obliterated hypogastric artery, but at that vessel it is re- flected from the sides and summit of the bladder to the wall leaving of the pelvis and abdomen. All the anterior surface of the and bladder is therefore uncovered by peritoneum ; and when lower part the bladder is distended it rises above the pubes so as to unco- . r A vered. allow of its being opened in front without injury to the serous membrane. The The recto-vesical pouch is wide behind, where it corre- pouch r between sponds to the interval between the iliac arteries, and is nar- the rec- 1 m 7 biaddTr1 row *n ^ron^ between the rectum and the bladder. Anteriorly Extent it extends as far as, or even into the interval between the andWd£s vesicular seminales; it ends usually about one inch and a f??methe na^ from the tip of the coccyx, but sometimes it reaches the vary. prostate gland. The distance of the pouch from the anus is commonly about four inches ; but this will vary with the state of the bladder, for if this viscus is distended, the pouch of the peritoneum will be raised with it, and therefore be removed farther from the end of the intestine. Folds of False ligaments of the bladder. — Where the peritoneum liga- is reflected from the bladder to the wall of the cavity, it ments ., . . . of the gives rise to the false ligaments of that viscus. These are bladder, ° . ° viz— five in number : — two posterior, two lateral, and one supe- rior. twopos- The posterior ligament (one on each side) reaches from the back of the pelvis to the bladder, and contains the obli- terated hypogastric artery, the ureter, and some vessels and nerves. Between these is the hollow of the recto-vesical pouch. two ^ The lateral ligament, also one on a side, is a wide piece of peritoneum, that is reflected from the side of the bladder to the iliac fossa, and the wall of the pelvis. Along its line of attachment to the bladder is the obliterated hypogastric artery. and one The superior ligament is reflected from the upper part of superior. ^e tyffifa ^o the abdominal wall, along the same obliterated vessel. Extent The rectum, or the lower part of the great intestine, ex- rectum, tends from the junction between the sacrum and the ilium to the anus, and is kept in place by the peritoneum and the length, recto-vesical fascia. The intestine is about eight inches long, and takes a winding course, for it follows the curve589 CONNECTIONS OF RECTUM AND BLADDER. of the sacrum and coccyx; it is divided into three parts, and di- . , n , visions. upper, middle, and lower. The upper part, longer than the others, extends obliquely F.irst from the sacro-iliac junction to the centre of the third piece of the sacrum. It is surrounded almost entirely by the peri- most 1 - i • • t covered ritoneum which forms the meso-rectum behind it; it liesbyperi- . p lii toneum. against the sacrum, and on the pyritormis muscle and the sacral plexus of the left side. In contact with its left side are the branches of the internal iliac artery, and the left ureter. In some bodies this part of the intestine is much curved to the right side.* The middle piece lies beneath the bladder, and reaches to Middle the tip of the coccyx : it is about three inches in length, and piece is covered by peritoneum on the upper aspect, for about two thirds of its extent. Resting on it is the lower or triangular only covered part of the bladder, with the vesiculae seminales and the in front, prostate gland; and behind it is the bone. On the left side is the coccygeus muscle. The lower part is about an inch and a half in length, and Last is curved from the tip of the coccyx to the anus : at first it ^unco- is much dilated, but at the anus it is contracted. This end of the intestine is without peritoneal covering, and is sup- ported by the lower part of the triangular ligament of the urethra, and by the levatores ani muscles. Above the ex- Connec- tremity of the rectum (in this position of the body) are the with prostate,, the membranous part of the urethra, and the bulb around, of the same tube; but as the gut gradually recedes from the urethra, an angular interval is left between the two. The levatores ani muscles descend on its sides, and unite beneath it, supporting it in a sling; and the sphincter muscles surround the aperture. Sometimes this end of the some- intestine is very much enlarged, especially in women or old dUated. men; and it rises up on each side of the prostate in the latter, so as to surround this except above. The urinary bladder (vesica urinaria) is situate in the Bladder is in * In the dissecting-room of the College (Session 1851—1852) I saw an example of the rectum being placed altogether on the right side of the sacrum. In this body the lower end of the left colon crossed the spine, at the top of the sacrum, and the rectum descended through the pelvis, on the right of the middle line to the end of the coccyx. The body was dissected by Messrs. Gange and Merry weather.590 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. pelvis pelvis, and is the receptacle for the fluid secreted by the when . . empty, kidneys. When the bladder is contracted it is of a trian- gular form, and lies within the pelvis against the anterior ?ectspr°" wa^ °^ ^e cav^y* wnen ^ is distended it becomes of when6 a conical snaPe> witn the larger part directed towards the ful1- rectum, and the apex to the abdominal wall; and it is slightly curved over the anterior part of the pelvis as it Axis. projects beyond the bone. If a line through its centre were prolonged, it would touch the abdominal wall somewhere (according to the distension) between the umbilicus and the pubes in the one direction, and the end of the coccyx in the other direction. The organ is maintained in its position by the recto-vesical fascia, and the peritoneum, which form its ligaments. See pages 586. 588. Divi- Yor the purpose of studying its connections the bladder is sions. 11 J ° divided into the following parts: — a summit and base, and a body and neck. Apex The summit or apex of the bladder is rounded, and from on it. its anterior part three ligamentous cords are prolonged to the umbilicus: the central one of these is the remnant of the urachus, and the two lateral are formed by the obli- terated hypogastric arteries. If the bladder is full, the apex is above, but otherwise below the pubes. All the surface behind the obliterated vessels is covered by peri- toneum. Base The base (fundus) is large, and rests on the middle piece of the rectum. In the state of emptiness of the bladder the alters in base is scarcely prominent; but in distension of the viscus, shape, t^.g extends lower, and becomes widened. Connected parts in 1 contact with the under part of the bladder are the vesiculas seminales with it. . and the vasa deferentia; and between these is a triangular space, from which the peritoneum is absent, sur- Surfaces of the body.—The anterior part of the bladder Interior is in contact with the posterior surface of the symphysis pubis, or with the lower part of the abdominal wall if it is distended, and is altogether free from peritoneum; whilst and pos- the posterior surface, on the other hand, is entirely covered lateral ^y serous membrane. Extending along the upper part of each lateral region is the obliterated hypogastric vessel, and crossing it lower down is the vas deferens; near the under part is the entrance of the ureter into the bladder. All the591 PROSTATE AND VESICUL^E : CONNECTIONS. side of the bladder behind the obliterated vessel is covered by peritoneum, but the rest is uncovered. The neck (cervix) is the narrow anterior part of the Neck, bladder that joins the urethra. It is surrounded by the prostate gland. The position of the bladder in the pelvis is not the same Position 1 x m in pelvis in adult as in early life. For in the child this viscus pro- varies J t *- with age. jects above the brim of the pelvis into the hypogastric region of the abdomen, and the cervix is, the lowest part. But in the adult the bladder is concealed by the larger pelvic bones, and the base or fundus projects inferiorly. The ureter enters the posterior ligament of the bladder, Ureter 1 ° in pelvis, after crossing the common or the external iliac artery, and forms an arch below the level of the obliterated hypogastric vessel; it reaches forwards to enter the bladder near the ?nd en- ' trance lower part, and somewhat on the side, at the distance of jj}a^der about two inches and a half from the prostate gland. The prostate gland surrounds the neck of the bladder. Position of the It is placed below the level of the symphysis pubis, as well prostate; as posterior to it, and is supported by the rectum. Its shape form; is that of a cone with the base turned backwards, and its size equals a large horse chesnut. In the present position of axis-, the pelvis, a line through the middle of the gland would be directed obliquely downwards and backwards, though in the erect state of the body, it would be almost horizontal. The upper surface is about three quarters of an inch be- upper low the symphysis pubis, and is connected to it by the an- terior ligaments x>f the bladder. On this aspect are branches of the dorsal vein of the penis. The under surface has the greatest extent, and is con- under J & \ surface. tiguous to the rectum; this is the part that is felt by the finger introduced into the bowel through the anus. The apex touches the fascia of the pelvis that closes the ap?x 1 L and base. interval between the rami of the pubes ; and the base sur- rounds the vesicular seminales with the vasa deferentia, and limits anteriorly the triangular space at the base of the bladder. The prostate is enveloped by a sheath obtained from the Ifc is _, contain- recto-vesical fascia (p. 585.), and a plexus of veins (prostatic) l£™t* surrounds it: through the middle of the gland the urethra takes its course to the penis. The size of the prostate alters size may592 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. much with increasing age, and in old people it may acquire a considerable magnitude, seminal The vesicula seminales are two small elongated sacs, ' each about two inches long, between the under part of the their bladder and the rectum. Each is pyramidal in form, and connec- tions. hag the larger end turned backwards towards the ureter, whilst the smaller is surrounded by the prostate. Along the inner side is the vas deferens. At the prostate gland the vesiculse are almost close together; but farther backwards they diverge from one another, and enclose with the pouch of the peritoneum a triangular space at the under aspect of the bladder. The vesiculse are contained in a membranous sheath, which is derived from the recto-vesical fascia. Vas de- The vas deferens or the excretory duct of the testis, in ' its course to the urethra, enters the abdomen by the in- ternal abdominal ring, and is then directed inwards along course; the side and under part of the bladder to the base of the unites prostate, where it forms the common ejaculatory duct by duct joining with the duct from the vesicula. The position of vesicula. this tube to the external iliac artery has been noticed; on the bladder it may be seen to lie internal to the ureter, and internal to the vesicula of the same side. By the side of the vesicula the duct is much enlarged, and is saccu- lated. The The urethra is the excretory passage for the urine and ' semen, and reaches from the bladder to the end of the penis, length; jts length varies from seven and a half to eight inches and a half, and it presents one or twro curves according to the state it is of the penis. At first the canal is directed forwards and curved 1 . n accord- upwards, through the triangular ligament 01 the perinaeum, thScon. to the body of the penis, forming a large curve with the con- dition of X , m, ... the cavity to the pubes. 1 hence to its termination the urethra Pen S' is applied to the penis; and whilst this body remains pendant, it forms a second bend with the concavity downwards, but if the penis is raised, the canal makes but one curve through- its dm- out. The canal is divided into three parts, prostatic, mem- sions. branous, and spongy. Pros- The prostatic part is contained in the prostate gland, and t<UiC> . Till receives its name from that circumstance. Its length and connections are the same as those of the gland (p. 591.). br'm us memoraneus Part is nearly an inch long, and inter-THE URETHRA AND PENIS. 593 venes between the apex of the prostate and the front of the perinaeal triangular ligament. It is somewhat curved up- wards, and the bulb of the next portion of the urethral tube is directed backwards below it, so that the under part appears connec. to measure less than the upper. Surrounding it are the tlons' muscular fibres of the constrictor urethras; close below it are Cowper's glands, and beneath or behind it is the rectum. This division of the urethra is the weakest; but it is sup- ported by the triangular ligament. The spongy part is so named from its being surrounded and by a cellular and vascular structure. It is applied to the body of the penis assisting to form this, and terminates an- teriorly in the orifice named meatus urinarius in the end of the glans.It is the longest part of the urethra, and measures about five inches. At its commencement this division of the excretory canal is surrounded by the ejaculator urinaa muscle. Dissection, — All the tegumentary covering of the penis pissec- may be removed, to see the component parts of that body : and after its removal the spongy part of the urethra will be better seen. The penis is a cylindrical body, which is attached to the ^?t°"entg front of the pubes, and depends from it in front of the scro- and . L 1 situation turn. It is constructed of two firm fibrous masses named 0{ti}e penis. corpora cavernosa, that form the principal part of the organ ; and below these is a soft spongy substance (corpus spongi- osum) that surrounds the urethra, and forms the head or the glans penis. A tegumentary investment covers the whole, and is supplied with vessels and nerves; these have been noticed at p. 464. The corpora cavernosa form, the bulk of the penis, and Corpora are two dense, fibrous, almost cylindrical tubes, which are nosa" filled with vascular structure. Each is fixed posteriorly to body of the rami of the ischium and os pubis by a thick pointed pro- pems' cess, the crus penis; and after a distance of an inch and a half it becomes blended with its fellow in the body of the penis. Near its junction with its fellow there is a slight swelling on the crus — the bulb of the corpus cavernosum. (Kobelt.) The body of the penis, formed by the union of but each the corpora cavernosa, is grooved above and below along ratePd~ the middle line, and presents anteriorly a narrowed but truncated extremity that is covered by the glans penis ; along Q QDISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 594 Form its under surface the urethra is conducted. Besides the at- attach. tachment of the corpora cavernosa by the crura, the body of penis, the penis is connected with the front of the symphysis pubis by the suspensory ligament. Corpus* The corpus spongiosum urethrce encloses the urethral sum ^ canal, and forms the head of the penis. It has a vascular and erectile structure, like the corpora cavernosa, but is much sur- less strong. Commencing posteriorly by a dilated part — urethra, the bulb, this structure extends forwards around the urethra swells to the extremity of the penis, where it swells out into the conical glans penis, the bulb, The bulb is in front of the triangular ligament of the urethra, and opposite the point of junction of the crura of the corpora cavernosa. It is directed backwards slightly below the membranous part of the urethra, and is fixed by iobed1 iS ^rous tissue to the front of the triangular ligament. The accelerator urinae muscle covers it. The enlargement usually presents a central depression, with a bulging on each side, and is subdivided into two lobes, and the The glans penis is somewhat conical in form, and covers gians the blunt end of the corpora cavernosa. Its base is directed pemS' backwards, and is marked by a slightly prominent border — the corona glandis; it is also sloped obliquely along the under aspect, from the apex to the base. In the apex is a vertical slit, in which the urethral canal terminates ; and below that aperture is an excavation that contains the frasnum preputii. Section III. CONNECTIONS OF THE VISCERA IN THE FEMALE. Con. In the pelvis of the female are contained the lower end of the thets of intestinal tube, and the bladder and the urethra, as in the peiws? m&le; but there are in addition the generative organs, viz. the uterus with its accessories, and the vagina, and their Position. — The rectum is posterior to the rest as in the tion!" ma^e pelvis and forms a like curve. In the concavity of the bent intestine lie the uterus with its appendages, and the tube of the vagina. And in front of these are the bladder and the urethral canal. In this sex there are three tubesVISCERA IN THE FEMALE PELVIS. 595 Q Q 2 connected with the viscera, and all are directed forwards, one above another, to the surface, viz. the tube of the ure- thra, that of the vagina, and that of the rectum. Directions. — The description in Section 1. (p. 581.) of ^se . descrip- the male pelvis must be used for instructions respecting the tion of removal of the innominate bone, and for the anatomy of the pelvis, fasciae, and the muscles of the outlet of the pelvis. After the student has learnt, as directed above, the fasciae and the muscles, which are nearly alike in both sexes, he may make the following special dissection of the viscera of the female pelvis. Dissection. — On taking away the recto-vesieal fascia and Then *=> J # e clean some cellular membrane, the several viscera will come into the m • • • • i viscera view. To maintain the position of the uterus, this may be of the female held up with a piece of string passed though the upper part, pelvis.; The reflections of the peritoneum on the viscera are to be preserved, and a piece of cotton wool is to be placed between the rectum and the uterus. The obliterated part of the in- ternal iliac artery is to be followed forwards to the bladder, but all the other branches may be cut away on this the left side ; the ureter will be found passing to the bladder close to that artery. Afterwards the urethra, the vagina, and the rectum are to be cleaned, and partly separated from one another at the anterior part of the pelvis, but the arteries on the rectum are to be preserved. The peritoneum gives a partial covering to the viscera, as Reflec- in the male pelvis. Investing the upper part of the rectum, the peri- and forming behind it the meso-rectum, the membrane is continued for a short distance on the front of the intestine to the posterior part of the vagina, and the back of the uterus. It covers the posterior, and the greater part of the anterior surface of the uterus, and can be traced to the bladder without again touching the vagina. On each side of the uterus it forms a wide fold (broad ligament), which attaches that viscus to the wall of the abdomen and pelvis. As the peritoneum is followed upwards to the wall of the abdomen, it will be found to cover the posterior surface of the bladder, and on each side, the part behind the position of the obliterated hypogastric artery. In the female, the pouch between the rectum and the bladder can scarcely be said to exist, because the vagina intervenes between the two, and596 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. arrests, so to express it, the passing forwards of the perito- Foidsor neum. In the pelvis the serous membrane forms the follow- liga- t 1 ments ing ligaments for the uterus and bladder : — are— . broad The broad ligament of the uterus passes from the side of Jient the uterus to the wall of the abdomen, and supports that uterus, organ in the cavity of the pelvis. By its position across the pelvis, it divides the cavity into an anterior and a posterior part: in the former are placed the bladder, urethra, and that is vagina ; in the latter the upper part of the rectum, and the divided small intestine when it reaches the pelvis. Each ligament into .... . three shows traces of a subdivision into three pieces, corresponding to the bodies contained between its two layers ; thus there is a posterior piece that belongs to the ovary and its ligament; an anterior, near the upper part, which is appropriated to the round ligament; and a middle piece, the highest of all, that surrounds the Fallopian tube. It is at the free extrem- ity of the Fallopian tube that the peritoneum is continuous with a mucous membrane. and an- Between the neck of the uterus and the back of the terior tfga- bladder is a small fold on each side, which is sometimes de- ment. scribed as the anterior ligament of the uterus. Fiveii- The false ligaments of the bladder are the same as in the gaments of the male, and are five in number, viz. two posterior, two lateral, bladder. . . . and a superior: they are all blended in one large piece of peritoneum that reaches from the bladder to the side and the front of the pelvis. In the female the posterior ligament, containing the ureter and the vessels of the bladder, is less marked than in the male, because the uterus intervenes and pushes aside the vessels, connec. The rectum is not so curved in the female as in the male, the rec- and is generally larger. Descending along the middle of the turn, viz. . sacrum and coccyx to the anus, the intestine is divided into three parts: — of upper The first part extends to the third piece of the sacrum, 1 and is enveloped by the peritoneum, except posteriorly : its connexions are similar to those of the rectum in the male. middle, The middle part reaches to the tip of the coccyx, and has I the vagina above and in contact with it. The peritoneum covers the front for a very short distance. and ^ The lower part curves to the anus away from the vagina, I part. so as to leave between the two a space which corresponds, onCONNECTIONS OF THE FEMALE VISCERA. 597 Q Q 3 the surface of the body, to the part of the perineum between the anus and the vulva. The levatores ani are on each side, and unite below it, and the sphincter muscles surround the extremity. The uterus is somewhat of a conical shape, and is flat- Form tened from before backwards. It is situate in the pelvis ation. between the bladder and the rectum, and is retained in place by the broad ligaments. Its wider end is free and placed upwards, and the lower end communicates with the vagina : unless enlarged, it lies below the brim of the pelvis. This Position viscus is tilted forwards, so that its position is oblique in the brim of cavity of the pelvis ; and a line through the centre of the peivls~ organ would correspond to the axis of the inlet of the pelvic Axis, cavity, but not to that of the vagina. The anterior surface is covered by peritoneum, except in surfaces the lower fourth, where it is in "contact with the bladder. The 'posterior surface is altogether invested by the serous membrane. The upper end (fundus vel basis uteri) is the largest part Extre- of the organ, and is in contact with the small intestine. The lower end, or the neck (cervix uteri) is received into the vagina. To each side is attached the broad ligament with the On the Fallopian tube, the round ligament, and the ovary. a. The Fallopian tube is contained in the free border of Faiio- the ligament; one end is connected to the upper angle of the tube, uterus, whilst the oiher is loose in the cavity of the pelvis. At its attachment to the uterus the tube is of small size, but at the opposite extremity it is dilated, like the end of a trumpet, and fringed, forming the corpus fimbriatum. b. The round or suspensory ligament is a fibrous cord, round that is directed outwards through the internal abdominal ring, and the inguinal canal, to the groin. This cord lies over the obliterated hypogastric, and the external iliac artery; and is surrounded by the peritoneum, which accompanies it a short way into the canal. c. The ovary is placed nearly horizontally, and bulges at and the the posterior aspect of the broad ligament ; it is connected to and7 the uterus at the inner end by a special fibrous band, ligament its liga. of the ovary. Its form is oval, and its margins are turned ment* forwards and backwards. Its size is very variable.DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 598 Extent The Vagina is the tube by which the uterus communicates form; with the exterior of the body. It is somewhat cylindrical in length; shape, though flattened on the front and back; and its length is from four to five inches. The vagina is slightly curved axis; as it follows the bend of the rectum, and its axis therefore corresponds at first to the centre of the outlet, but higher up to that of the cavity of the pelvis. In front the vagina is in contact with the base of the bladder, and the urethra ; and beneath or below it is the rectum. To the side is attached connec- the recto-vesical fascia, which sends a sheath alons; the lower tions. ° half of the tube. The upper end receives the neck of the uterus by an aperture in the anterior or upper wall; and the lower end is the narrowest part of the canal, and is sur- Lower rounded by the sphincter vaginae muscle. In children, and closed in the virgin, the external aperture is closed by the hymen, times. The vagina is surrounded by a large plexus of veins. Bladder The Bladder is placed at the anterior part of the pelvis, above the vagina and in contact with the back of the pubes. resem- Its form, position, and connections so closely resemble those of the of the bladder in the male body, as to render it unnecessary to repeat them again (see p. 589.). The chief differences in the bladder of the two sexes are the following : — Differ- In the female the bladder is larger than in the male, and between its transverse exceeds its vertical measurement. The base two is of less extent; it is in contact with the vagina and the lower part of the uterus ; and it does not project below the level of the urethra, so as to form a pouch as in the male. On the side of the viscus there is not any vas deferens ; and the prostate is absent from the neck, course The ureter has a longer course in the pelvis of the female oi ureter' than in that of the male, before it reaches the bladder. After crossing the internal iliac vessels, it passes by the neck of the uterus ere it arrives at its destination. Urethra; The urethra is a small narrow tube about one inch and a andgth half long, which curves slightly below the symphysis pubis, connec- tne concavity being upwards. Its situation is above the wiTh "vagina, and its external opening is placed within the vulva, around ^n *ts course to tne surface it is imbedded in the tissue of the vaginal wall, and perforates the triangular ligament of the perineum; but before reaching the last structure it is sur- rounded by the muscular fibres of the constrictor urethrasVESSELS OF THE PELVIS. 599 (p. 457.)- A plexus of veins surrounds the urethra as well as the vagina. Section IV VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE PELVIS. Direction. — This section is to be used by the dissectors of both the male and the female pelvis. In the pelvis are the internal iliac vessels, and their Vessels branches to the viscera ; the sacral nerves and the sacral nerves ot the plexus; and the sympathetic nerve, consisting of both a pelvis, gangliated cord, and offsets of the hypogastric plexus. Directions. — The internal iliac vessels are to be dissected Todis- on the right side. But the air should be previously let out vessels of the bladder, and this viscus and the rectum, together with pelvis, the uterus and the vagina in the female, should be drawn from their situation in the centre of the pelvis. Dissection. — The peritoneum and the cellular membrane are to be removed from the viscera and the trunks of the vessels, as well as from the branches that leave the pelvis or supply the viscera; and the obliterated cord of the artery is to be traced on the bladder to the umbilicus. With the Nerves, vessels are offsets of the hypogastric plexus of nerves, but, in the present state of the body, these will probably not be seen; and in dissecting the vessels to the bladder and the rectum, branches of the spinal sacral nerves will come into view. The veins in a general dissection may be removed Veins, to make clean the arteries. When the vessels are quite pre- pared the bladder may be again distended, and the viscera replaced. The internal iliac artery is one of the trunks resulting Destina- from the division of the common iliac vessel, and furnishes S,Tot branches to the viscera and the wall of the pelvis, to the artery' generative organs, and to the thigh. In the adult the vessel is a short trunk, of large capacity, size and which measures about an inch and a half in length. Directed length ' downwards, as far as the sacro-sciatic notch, the artery ter- termi- minates in two large branches, from which the severalna lon; offsets are furnished. From its extremity a partly oblite- rated vessel (obliterated hypogastric) extends forwards to the q q 4DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 633 position bladder. In entering the pelvis the artery lies in front of ° vem' the lumbo-sacral nerve and the pyriformis muscle, and is connec- contained in the fold of peritoneum that forms the posterior tions. . r ligament of the bladder. It is accompanied by the internal iliac vein, which is posterior to it, and somewhat on the outer part on the right side. Branch- The branches of the artery are numerous, and arise usually in the following manner :—from the posterior divi- sion of the trunk arise the ilio-lumbar, lateral sacral, and gluteal branches; and from the anterior division come the vesical (upper and lower) obturator, sciatic, and pudic; and, in the female, the uterine and vaginal branches. Condi- Artery in the foetus. — In the foetus the internal iliac be- thear- comes the hypogastric artery, and leaves the abdomen by thete- the umbilicus. At that time it is larger than the external ' iliac artery; and, entering but slightly into the cavity of the pelvis, it is directed forwards to the back of the bladder, and then upwards along the side of that viscus to the apex. Be- yond the bladder the vessel ascends along the posterior aspect of the abdominal wall with the urachus, converging to its fellow; at the umbilicus the vessels of opposite sides come into contact with the umbilical vein, and, passing from the abdomen through the aperture at that spot, enter into the placental cord, and receive the name umbilical. In the foetus, as in the adult, similar branches are furnished by the artery, though their relative size at the two periods is very different. and its Change to adult state.—When uterine life has ceased the mation hypogastric artery diminishes in consequence of the arrest of the of the current of blood through it, and finally becomes obli- terated more or less completely as far back as an inch and a half of its commencement, only a cord remaining in the posi- tion of the former vessel. Commonly, the cord remains per- vious by means of a very small canal as far as the upper part of the bladder, and gives origin to the vesical arteries. Trunk Peculiarities.—The length of the internal iliac artery varies from tength,in nalfan mcn to three inches, its extreme measurements ; but in two thirds of a certain number of bodies (Quain) it ranged from an inch to an inch and a half. The increased and diminished extent of the internal, is dependent upon the shortening and lengthening of the common iliac artery.601 BRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL ILIAC. The ending of the vessel may be at any spot between the usual gndm^ place of origin and termination. at which r ° it ends. The brandies arising from the posterior division of the Branch- es of the internal iliac, are, ilio-lumbar, lateral sacral, and gluteal. posterior 1. The ilio-lumbar branch passes outwards beneath the Ilio_lum_ psoas muscle and the obturator nerve, but in front of the ^r has lumbo-sacral nerve, and divides into an ascending and a transverse branch in the iliac fossa. a. The ascending or lumbar offset, which is beneath the ascend- ° 7 ing and psoas, supplies that muscle and the quadratus lumborum, and anastomoses with the last lumbar artery: it sends a small spinal branch through the foramen between the sacrum and the last lumbar vertebra. b. The transverse or iliac part divides into branches that a trans- verse ramify in the iliacus muscle, some running over and some branch, beneath it. At the crest of the ilium these branches anasto- mose with the lumbar and circumflex iliac arteries; and some twigs from the deep branches communicate with the obturator artery, and enter the innominate bone. 2. The lateral sacral branches are two in number, su- Lateral perior and inferior, but the upper is the largest; they corre- arteries spond in situation to the lumbar arteries, and form a chain of anastomoses by the side of the apertures in the front of the sacrum. These branches supply the pyriformis and coccygeus muscles, and anastomose with the preceding, as well as with the middle sacral branch. A small spinalsupply spinal branch enters the spinal canal through each aperture in the branch, sacrum. 3. The gluteal artery is a short thick trunk, that appears Gluteal .. artery. to be the continuation of the posterior division of the internal iliac. Its destination is to the gluteal muscles on the dorsum of the innominate bone, and it is transmitted from the pelvis above the border of the pyriformis muscle, with its accom- panying vein and the superior gluteal nerve. In the pelvis this artery gives small branches to the con- small tiguous muscles, viz. the iliacus, pyriformis, and obturator, se and a nutritious artery to the os ilii^ The branches from the anterior division of the internal Branch- iliac artery are the following: — anterior 1. The vesical arteries are named superior and inferior, vesical arteries ;DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 602 and are distributed to the upper and lower parts of the bladder. three or a. The upper vesical are three or four in number, and four . . . . upper, arise at intervals from the partly obliterated hypogastric trunk; the lowest is sometimes called middle vesical branch. Offsets are distributed from these branches to all the body and upper part of the bladder. and a b. The lower vesical artery arises from the front of the lower, . ♦ internal iliac m common with a branch to the rectum, or with one to the vagina in the female. It is distributed to the base of the bladder, the vesiculae seminales, and the pros- tate. A small offset from this artery, or from the upper vesical, is furnished to the vas deferens, and ascends on it as far as the inguinal canal, with an 2. The branch to the rectum (middle hemorrhoidal) is the rec- commonly supplied by the inferior vesical, as before said, or by the pudic. It ramifies on the anterior and lower part of the rectum, and on the vagina in the female, and anastomoses with the superior and inferior hemorrhoidal arteries. Obtura- 3. The obturator artery is distributed, outside the pelvis, tery and merely crosses this cavity to reach the aperture of exit, courses The branch springs usually from the anterior division of the pelvis, internal iliac artery, and is directed forwards below the brim of the pelvis to the aperture in the upper part of the thyroid foramen. Passing from the pelvis by that opening, the artery ends in two branches, that encircle the membrane closing the thyroid foramen beneath the muscle in that spot, offsets In the pelvis the artery has its companion nerve above, m pelvis, ke|QW it, and it distributes the following small branches: — r., iliac and a. Iliac branch. — Amongst other small offsets, the obtu- rator furnishes a twig to the iliac fossa to supply the bone and the iliacus muscle; this anastomoses with the ilio-lum- bar artery. pubic^ b. The pubic branch, arising as the artery is about to leave the pelvis, ascends on the posterior aspect of the pubes, and communicates with the corresponding branch of the opposite side, as well as with the offset sent downwards from the epigastric artery. There may be more than one branch to the pubes. its ori- Peculiarities, — The obturator artery may arise at the front ofBRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 603 tlie pelvis, from the epigastric instead of the internal iliac, and turn gin from down almost vertically to the thyroid aperture. Or, it may arise fri'c^as" by two roots, one from the epigastric, another from the internal or lliac' iliac, the roots varying in size in different instances : thus they may both, be nearly equal in size ; that from the internal iliac may be the larger of the two ; or that from the epigastric may be the largest. The position of the obturator to the internal crural ring, in the in- stances of its origin from the epigastric, has been before alluded to (p. 492.). In some bodies, the obturator may be found to take origin from From J external the external iliac artery. iliac. An account of the frequency with which these different pecu- Fre- ... • . cjuency liarities occur, will be found in Mr. Quain's work on the "Ana- of the tomy of the Arteries." Suffice it to say here, that the origin from orfginsf the internal iliac is the most frequent, that from the epigastric next, and the origin from the two sources, or from the external iliac artery, the least frequent. 4. The sciatic artery is the next largest branch to the Sciatic gluteal; it is distributed to the buttock, and may be con- artery sidered the offset by which the internal iliac artery ter- minates. The artery is continued over the pyriformis in the muscle and the sacral plexus to the lower part of the sacro- pelus' sciatic notch, where it leaves the pelvis between the pyri^ formis and the coccygeus. External to the pelvis it divides and out- into branches beneath the gluteus maximus muscle. In the slde xt' pelvis it supplies the pyriformis and coccygeus muscles. 5. The pudic artery supplies the perinseum and the genital Pudic organs, and has nearly the same connections in the pelvis as thTpei-1 the sciatic, from which it often springs. If the artery arises vls* by a separate trunk from the internal iliac, it accompanies the sciatic, though external to it, and leaves the pelvis be- tween the pyriformis and coccygeus. At the back of the pelvis it winds over the spine of the ischium, and enters the perinseum. (See p. 452.) In the pelvic part of its course the artery gives some Some unimportant branches, and frequently the middle hsemor- offsets, rhoidal branch arises from it. Peculiarities. — The pudic artery is sometimes smaller than usual, When and fails to supply some of its ordinary perineal branches, espe- thanler cially the terminal that are required by the penis. In those' cases the "nieces- deficient branches are derived from an artery, accessory pudic l°Yr/nch (Quain), which takes origin mostly from tfiS trunk of the pudic comes inside the pelvis, and courses forwards on the side of the bladder, internal iliac.604 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. and the upper part of the prostate gland, to leave the pelvis below the pubic arch. It furnishes branches to supply the place of those that are wanting. Branch- The branches of the internal iliac artery that are peculiar es in the . female, to the female are two, the uterine and vaginal. uterine 6. The uterine artery passes inwards between the layers of the broad ligament, to the neck of the uterus. At that part the vessel changes its direction, and ascends along the side of the uterus to the fundus, where it anastomoses with the ovarian artery (spermatic) of the aorta. Numerous supplies branches enter the substance of the uterus, ramifying in it, uterus. , 4 * , and anastomose with those ot the opposite side. Ihis artery and its branches are remarkable for their tortuous condition. Offsets a. At the neck of the uterus some small twigs are supplied to va- oil gina, to the vagina and the bladder; and the special vaginal artery may arise from it at that spot, and the b. Branches in the broad ligament — One branch ac- broad . , ;r , . . , , Hga- companies the round ligament into the inguinal canal and anastomoses with a branch of the epigastric. Another ex- tends on the Fallopian tube, and divides into long branches that reach the end. And a third offset, according to J. Web- ber, is distributed to the ovary. vaginal 7. The vaginal artery seldom arises separately from the internal iliac: combined with the preceding, or with the branch to the rectum, this artery extends to the vagina, and ramifies in its wall as low as the outer orifice. Branch- Other arteries in the pelvis.—The remaining arteries in esofthe * t aorta, the pelvis, that are not derived from the internal iliac, are the ovarian, superior hemorrhoidal, and middle sacral. Ovarian The ovarian artery has been described in part with the artery. krancjies 0f faQ ^orta, and has been traced to the pelvis (p. 567.). After passing the brim of the pelvis it becomes tor- tuous, and enters the broad ligament to be distributed to the ovary: in the ligament there is a free anastomosis between the ovarian and uterine arteries. superior The superior hcemorrhoidal artery is the continuation of hsemor- _ . * . . n rhoidai. the trunk ot the interior mesenteric behind the rectum, and divides into two branches opposite the middle of the- sacrum. From the point of the division of the trunk these branches are continued along the rectum, one on each side, to the lower part of the gut, where they anastomose withINTERNAL ILIAC VEIN. 605 the other vessels, viz. the middle and inferior hemorrhoidal arteries. The middle sacral artery, a small branch from the bifur- Middle . sacral, cation of the aorta, descends along the middle line of the which body, over the last lumbar vertebra, the sacrum, and the coccyx, and terminates at the lower part of the spinal column, by anastomosing with the lateral sacral arteries. In its course the artery gives small branches laterally, has these i n i n i offsets- opposite each vertebral element ot the sacrum, to anastomose with the lateral sacral arteries, and supply the nerves, and the bones with their periosteum. Sometimes a small branch is furnished by it to the lower end of the rectum, which takes the place of the middle hemorrhoidal artery. The internal iliac vein receives the blood from the wall veins of the pelvis, and the pelvic viscera, by branches corre- "ntS sponding for the most part to those of the arteries. The trunk 5 vein is a short and thick trunk, which is situate at first on position the inner side of the internal iliac artery; but as it ascends artery, to join with the external iliac it passes behind, and on the right side reaches even the outer aspect of its companion vessel. Some of the branches that form the trunk of the internal its iliac vein, viz. the gluteal, obturator, and sciatic, have the that are same anatomy as the arteries; but the following branches, are the pudic and dorsal of the penis, the vesical and hgemor- rhoidal, the uterine and vaginal, have some peculiarities. The pudic vein receives roots corresponding to the pudic branches of the artery in the perineum, but not those corre- sponding to the offsets of the artery on the dorsum of the penis. Its hemorrhoidal branch commences in a large plexus around the lower end of the rectum (plexus hemor- rhoidalis) with which the superior hgemorrhoidal vein com- municates. The dorsal vein of the penis receives vessels from the dorsal vein of penis, body of the penis, viz. the corpora cavernosa and corpus spongiosum, pierces the triangular ligament of the urethra, and divides into two, a right and a left branch, which enter a plexus around the membranous part of the urethra and the prostate. The vesical veins commence in a plexus about the lower vesical,DISSECTION OP THE PELVIS. 606 part of the bladder, and anastomose with the prostatic and hemorrhoidal veins, uterine, The uterine veins are numerous, and form a plexus in and by the side of the uterus. This plexus inosculates above with the ovarian plexus, and below with one on the vagina, vaginal The vaginal veins also surround the vagina with a large veins. u 0 ° vascular plexus. Parietal Parietal veins of the pelvis, — The other veins of the wall of the pelvis, viz. the ilio lumbar, lateral sacral, and middle sacral, open into the common iliac vein. Dissec- Dissection. — To dissect the nerves of the pelvis it will be tion of the necessary to detach the urethra from the arch of the pubes, nerves J . A of the and to cut through on the right side the recto-vesical fascia pelvis . i-ii and the levator am, together with the visceral arteries, in order that the viscera may be drawn from the side of the pelvis. If the bladder is distended let the air escape from it. sacral By means of this dissection the sacral nerves will be and coc- . n cygeai, Seen as they issue from the sacral foramina; and the dis- sector should follow the first four into the sacral plexus, as well as some branches from the fourth to the viscera. A branch of nerve, superior gluteal, is to be shown arising from the lumbo-sacral cord, as this passes to the sacral plexus. The last sacral and the coccygeal nerve are of small size, and will be found coming through the coccygeus muscle close to the coccyx; these are to be dissected with care, and the student will best find them by tracing connecting fila- ments that pass from one to another, beginning above with the offset from the fourth nerve. andsym- At the lower part of the rectum, bladder, and vagina is a pathetic. # m large plexus of the sympathetic, the pelvic plexus, which sends offsets to the viscera along the arteries. This plexus is generally destroyed in this stage of the dissection ; but if it should remain the student may trace the offsets from it, and the communicating branches with the spinal nerves, sacral Spinal sacral nerves.— The anterior primary branches nerves are five; of the sacral nerves are five in number, and decrease sud- denly in size from above downwards; for whilst the first two are large trunks, the last two are small and slender. Issuing by the apertures in the front of the sacrum (the fifth nerve excepted), the nerves receive short filaments of communica- those tion from the gangliated cord of the sympathetic. The607 SACKAL NERVES AND PLEXUS. three first nerves, and part of the fourth enter the sacral that pre plexus, but the fifth ends on the back of the coccyx. are The peculiarities of the fourth and fifth sacral, and the coccygeal nerve, may be noticed before the plexus formed by the other nerves is learnt. The fourth nerve divides into two parts, as above stated: fourth, one communicates with the sacral plexus; the other distri- butes the following branches to the viscera and the surround- which ing muscles, and joins the fifth nerve. a. The visceral branches supply chiefly the bladder and visceral the vagina, and communicate with the sympathetic nerve to form the pelvic plexus. Sometimes these branches come from the third sacral nerve. b, The muscular branches are three in number. One and • muscular rather long branch enters the levator am on its visceral as- offsets; pect; another supplies the coccygeus ; and the third reaches the perinaeum by piercing the coccygeus muscle. (See page 442.) The fifth nerve comes forwards from the lower end of the fifth is spinal canal through the coccygeus muscle. As soon as it aPer- ... . tures in appears in the pelvis it receives the communicating branch sacrum, from the fourth nerve ; it is then directed downwards in front of the coccygeus, where it is joined by the coccygeal nerve, and perforates that muscle near the tip of the coccyx, ends on to end on the posterior surface of the bone. The coccygeal nerve (sixth sacral), after leaving the lower Coccy- end of the spinal canal, appears through the coccygeus nerve, muscle, and joins the fifth sacral nerve in the manner above stated. Sacral Plexus. — This plexus is a large flat band, in sacral which are united the lumbo-sacral cord, the first three sacral plexus' nerves, and part of the fourth sacral nerve. It is situate on situation the pyriformis muscle, and beneath the sciatic and pudic branches of the internal iliac artery. From the spot where and the nerves join, the plexus becomes gradually smaller to- form# wards the lower end; and, leaving the pelvis below the pyri- formis, terminates in branches for the lower limb. Most of the branches of the plexus arise outside the pelvis, its and are distributed to the back of the lower limb. Onlv two ' J to mus- internal muscles of the pelvis (pyriformis and obturator in- ^5£"e ternus) receive their nerves from the sacral plexus. Pelvis? branches608 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. one to The nerve to the obturator internus muscle arises from the tor, part of the plexus resulting from the union of the lumbo- sacral with the first sacral nerve; it leaves the pelvis with the pudic artery, and winds over the spine of the ischium and through the small sacro-sciatic notch to enter the peri- natal surface of the muscle. pW°for ^e nerves to the piriformis are commonly two in number, mis. and arise from separate parts of the plexus : they enter the muscle at its visceral aspect. Pudic The pudic nerve, like the artery of the same name, sup- plies the rectum, the perineum, and the genital organs, now The nerve arises at the lower part of the plexus as this is seen * l at.its about to pass from the pelvis, and then accompanies its origin. *- artery through the small sacro-sciatic notch to the perinseum. (See p. 453.) es"to the remaining branches of the plexus, viz., the small and HmtT great sciatic nerves, with small muscular offsets to the gemelli after- and quadratus femoris, are described with the lower limb.— See Dissection of the Buttock. Superior The superior gluteal nerve is a branch of the lumbo-sacral nerve cord, and arises from it opposite the upper part of the large ends in sacro-sciatic notch. It passes outwards above the pyriformis gluteal A t t . muscles, muscle to the back of the pelvis, where it ends chiefly in branches for the two smaller gluteal muscles. Trace Dissection. — Besides the large plexus of the sympathetic sympa- by the side of the bladder, the student will have to dissect thetic. the part of the gangliated cord that lies in front of the sacrum : its several ganglia (three or four), and their branches will come into view, on the removal of the cellular membrane. fheScTn Sympathetic Nerve. — In the pelvis the sympathetic the pel- nerve consists of a gangliated cord on each side, and of two VIS. o o 7 lateral plexuses for the supply of the viscera. The,. The gangliated cord lies on the front of the sacrum and gangh- u ° ated internal to the series of apertures in that bone. It is con- cord i 1 tinuous superiorly with the lumbar part of the cord by a j^ins one single or double internodal piece; whilst inferiorly the cords s^side* of opposite sides converge, and are united in front of the where coccyx by means of a loop, on which is situate a single me- gifon" C^an Sangli°n> 9an9' impar* Each cord is marked by gan- glia at intervals, the number varying from three to five. Offsets From the ganglia branches of communication pass to the609 SYMPATHETIC IN THE PELVIS. spinal nerves, and some filaments are directed inwards in of the front of the sacrum. The connecting branches are two to each ganglion, gray to the and white, and are very short; but, like those of the lum- nerves; bar ganglia, they may enter two sacral nerves instead of one. The gray connecting cord unites the ganglion and the spinal nerve, but the white one is continued over the gan- glion to the plexuses for the viscera.* The internal branches are smaller than those of other to the parts of the cord, and communicate in front of the sacrum, trie and around the middle sacral artery, with branches from the and the . _ _ . . „ ,. n. viscera. opposite side. From the first, or two first ganglia some fila- ments are furnished to the hypogastric plexus; and from the terminal connecting branches and the ganglion impar, in front of the coccyx, offsets descend over that bone. The visceral or pelvic plexuses (lateral inferior hypogas- J>f1^uses trie) are two in number, a right and a left, and are con- sympa- J . P thetic: tinuous with the lateral prolongations of the hypogastric plexus (p. 512.) Each is situate by the side of the bladder situa- and the rectum, or the side of the vagina in the female, and is united with offsets from the third and fourth sacral nerves, how to constitute the above-named plexus. Numerous ganglia formed* are found in the plexus, especially at the points of union of the spinal and sympathetic nerves. From each plexus offsets are furnished to the viscera of offsets the pelvis, and to the genital organs, along the branches of viscera the internal iliac artery. These different secondary plexuses male, have the same name as the vessels on which they are placed; but as they may not be seen in the dissection, a mere enu- meration of them will be sufficient. The inferior hemorrhoidal plexus is an offset to the rectum from to the the back of the plexus, and joins the sympathetic on the superior rec um; hemorrhoidal artery. The vesical plexus contains large offsets, with many white fibred to the . -I r , „ & , ' i •! i , i bladder; or spinal nerves, and passes forwards to the side, and the lower part of the bladder. It gives one plexus to the vesicula seminalis, and another to the vas deferens. The prostatic plexus leaves the lower part of the pelvic plexus to the and is distributed to the substance of the prostate gland. At the gland * See a Paper on the " Nerves of the Uterus," by Mr. J. S. Beck, in the Philosophical Transactions for 1846. R RDISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 610 and the front of the prostate an offset (cavernous) is continued onwards pem°* to the dorsum of the penis, to supply the cavernous structure. On the penis the cavernous nerves join the pudic nerve. offsets In the female there are the following additional plexuses, female: for the supply of the viscera peculiar to that sex: — to the Ovarian plexus. — The principal nerves to the ovary are derived ovary' from the renal and aortic plexuses, and accompany the artery to that body; but the uterine nerves also supply some filaments to it. to the Vaginal plexus.— The nerves to the vagina are of large size, and vagina, plexiform, but consist in greater part of spinal nerve fibres : they end in the lower part of the tube, and to The uterine nerves are furnished to the uterus without admixture uterus, with the spinal nerves. The nerves ascend along the side of the uterus, and are, for the most part, long slender filaments, without ganglia or communications to their termination in the substance of the viscus. Some few nerves that surround the arteries are plexiform and ganglionic.—Beck. The Fallopian tube receives its branches from the uterine nerves, chain of The lymphatic glands of the pelvis form a chain in front pelvis; of the sacrum, and along the internal iliac artery. The effer- ent ducts of these bodies join the lumbar glands. Into these lympha- glands the deep lymphatics of the penis, those of the genital tering organs in the female, and the lymphatics of the viscera and the wall of the pelvis, are collected. Section V. ANATOMY OF THE VISCERA OF THE MALE. Directions, — The bladder and the parts at its base, viz. the vesiculae seminales and the prostate gland, are to be taken first for examination.* Take out Dissection. — To study the form and structure of the the vis- cera. viscera, it will be necessary to remove them from the cavity of the pelvis. For this purpose the student should carry the scalpel around the pelvic outlet, close to the osseous boundaries, so as to detach the crura of the penis from the bones, and to divide the parts connected with the end of the rectum. * The anatomy of the viscera of the female is contained in section 6. p. 624.611 THE PROSTATE GLAND. After the viscera are removed, the rectum is to be sepa- clean the rated from the other viscera, but the bladder and the penis ladder and urethra are to remain united. After the bladder has pros- tate* been distended with air, the peritoneum and the cellular membrane are to be dissected from the muscular fibres: the prostate gland and the vesiculas seminales are to be after- wards cleaned ; and the duct of the latter, and that of the vas deferens, to be followed into the gland. If any of the in- tegument has been left on the penis and the urethra it is to be removed. THE PROSTATE GLAND AND SEMINAL VESICLES. Prostate Gland. — This is a firm glandular body that Use and secretes a special fluid, and surrounds the neck of the bladder tion. and the beginning of the urethra. Its connections with the surrounding parts have been enumerated (p. 591.). The gland is conical in form, with the base or larger end Form, directed backwards, and is usually likened to a chesnut, which it much resembles. Its dimensions in different direc- dimen- tions are the following : — Transversely at the base it mea- sures about an inch and a half; from apex to base rather more than an inch; and in depth about three quarters of an inch or an inch: so that an incision directed obliquely downwards and outwards from the apex to the base of the gland, at its lateral part, will be the longest that can be practised in this body. Its weight is about an ounce, but in and , . . , weight. this respect it varies greatly. The upper surface of the prostate is rounded, but a slight sur- groove lies along the middle ; and the under surface, which is larger and flatter, is marked by a median hollow that indicates the division into lateral lobes. The posterior part, and base, or the base, is thick, and in its centre is an excavation which receives the common ejaculatory ducts. Three lobes are described in the prostate, viz. a middle Three and two lateral, though there is little division of the glan- dular mass. The lateral lobes are similar on each side, and two are separated only by the hollow on the under surface; they form the chief part of the gland, and are prolonged back, on each side, beyond the notch in the base. The middle lobe and a will be brought into view by detaching the vesicuke semi- R It 2DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 612 ture nales and the ejaculatory ducts from the bladder: it is a small piece of the gland between the neck of the bladder and the ejaculatory ducts, which extends transversely be- tween the lateral lobes. Oftentimes this middle lobe is enlarged in old people, and projects upwards into the bladder, so as to interfere with the flow of the urine from that viscus, or the passage of a catheter into it. Gland The urethra and the two common ejaculatory ducts are thre?ns contained in the substance of the gland: the former is tubes' transmitted through the gland from base to apex; and the latter perforate it obliquely to terminate in the urethral canal. true. Structure. — On a section the gland appears reddish in colour, and is very firm to the feel, though it is lacerable. It is made up of a mass of fibrous and muscular tissue with interspersed glandular structure; and the whole is enveloped by a fibrous coat. Fibrous Fibrous covering. — This forms a thin investment for the distinct gland, and sends offsets into the interior. It is quite dis- peivic tinct from the dense capsule derived from the pelvic fascia, and is separated from that by the plexus of veins. It is said to contain many pale contractile fibre cells. Muscu- Muscular tissue. — The firm fibrous looking part of the fibrous gland consists of pale muscular fibre cells, intermixed with tissue, nucjeaj.e(j fii3res an(j cellular tissue. Although interwoven How with one another, the fibres are arranged in bundles that arrang- . t* ed. radiate from the centre to the circumference, and thus favour the splitting of the gland in that direction instead of across.—Kolliker. This arrangement will be afterwards better seen when the urethra has been opened. Glands Glandular structure. — This element forms but about onlyfew'one third of the whole gland. The ducts are branched as in other glands; and when they are traced into the interior nature from the urethra, the final radicles will be found to be sur- ing; rounded by small sessile vesicles, which open into them, on ducts On the exterior of the vesicles and the ducts the blood- seis. vessels ramify; and lining the interior of the tubes is an epithelium of the columnar kind, which becomes laminar in the vesicles. The ducts of the gland are not collected into one excretory tube, but vary in number from twelve613 THE VESICTJL^E SEMINALES. to twenty, and open into the prostatic part of the urethra Ducts J L L open into (p. 618.). urethra. Blood-vessels. — The arteries are unimportant, and are furnished Arteries, by the vesical and hemorrhoidal (p. 602.). The veins form a 7eins J ... . form a plexus around the gland, which communicates in front with the plexus, dorsal vein of the penis, and behind with a plexus of veins at the base of the bladder. In old men this vascular communication gives rise to considerable haemorrhage when it is cut in the operation of lithotomy. Vesicul^e Seminales. — These vesicles are two membra- Defim- tion. nous sacs, that are supposed to serve as reservoirs for the secreted semen. They are placed on the under part of the s^ua- bladder behind the prostate, and diverge from one another so as to limit laterally a triangular surface at this aspect of the viscus : their form and connections have been already described (p. 592.). Though sacculated behind, thevesicula Saccu- vr J & . lated. becomes straight and somewhat narrowed in front; and at the base of the prostate it is blended with the vas deferens to form the common ejaculatory duct. The vesicula seminalis consists, like the epididymis, of a formed tube bent into a zigzag form, so as to produce lateral sacs or coiled . . tube. pouches, which are bound together by fibrous tissue; this cellular structure will be shown by means of a cut into it. When the bends of the vesicle are undone, its formative tube, which is about the size of a quill, measures from four to six inches, and ends posteriorly in a closed extremity: Length, connected with the tube, at intervals, are some lateral csecal appendages. End of vas deferens. — Opposite the vesicula the vas End of deferens is increased in capacity, and is rather sacculated deferens, like the contiguous vesicle; but before it joins with the tube of that body to form the common ejaculatory duct, it diminishes in size, and becomes straight. Structure. — The seminal vesicle has the same number of vesicle coats, and the same in kind as the vas deferens (p. 560.). The case of the recto-vesical fascia, that contains the vesicles, special 7 and a is said (Kolliker) to contain well marked muscular fibre cells at the posterior part; and the membrane that joins them inferiorly, within the sheath, to have a similar struc- ture. The mucous membrane is thrown into ridges by the mucous coat. bending of the tube, and presents an areolar or honeycombDISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 614 vas appearance: it is lined by a laminar epithelium. In the same. sacculated part of the vas deferens the mucous lining re- sembles in a slight degree that in the vesicula. How ^ Common seminal ducts. — These tubes (right and left) are formed by the junction of the duct of the vesicula seminalis with the vas deferens of the same side, and convey Extent, the semen to the urethra. They begin opposite the base of the prostate, and are directed upwards and forwards through course, the glandular mass, and along the sides of a hollow (vesicula length, prostatica), to open into the urethral tube. Their length is and rather less than an inch, and their course is convergent to tion. their termination, where they are close together in the floor of the urethra (p. 618.) struc- Structure. — The wall of the common duct is thinner ture. than that of the vas deferens, but it possesses similar coats. Bladder After the bladder has been separated from the surrounding out of . 1 . ° the body, parts, its form, and the extent of its different regions can be more conveniently observed. Form. Whilst the bladder was in the body, it was conical in shape, and rather flattened from before backwards ; but now it is more circular than when in its natural position, and has lost that arched form by which it adapts itself in disten- Dimen. sion to the curve of the pelvis. If this viscus is moderately dilated, it measures about five inches in length, and about three inches across. — Buschke. Its capacity is greatly in- fluenced by the age and sex, and by the habits of the indi- vidual. Ordinarily the bladder holds about a pint, and as a general rule it is larger in the female than in the male. Coats of Structure. — A muscular and a mucous coat, with an bladder, intervening cellular layer, exist in the wall of the bladder : at parts the peritoneum may also be enumerated as a con- stituent of the wall. The vessels and nerves are large. Perito- The imperfect covering of 'peritoneum has been described (p. 587.), and has been removed. Muscu- The muscular coat is formed of two layers of unstriped two muscular fibres, viz. an external or longitudinal, and an ' internal or circular; there are also some special fibres con- nected with the ends of the ureters.THE URINARY BLADDER. 615 a. The longitudinal fibres form a continuous covering, and external extend from the apex to the base : above they are connected tudinat, with the urachus, and below they are attached to the upper part of the prostate gland, with the exception of an anterior fasciculus on each side, which is united to the back of the os pubis, through the anterior true ligament of the bladder. On the front and back of the bladder the muscular layer is stronger, and its fibres more vertical, than on the lateral parts. Sometimes this outer layer of fibres has been called forms detrusor urines, from its action in the expulsion of the urine, urinae; b. The circular fibres are thin, and scattered on the body internal •'or circu- of the bladder; but around the cervix they are collected i»r gives J rise to into a thick bundle, which is called the sphincter vesicce. In sv^inc- some instances the fibres are hypertrophied, and project into the interior of the organ, forming the fasciculated bladder; and in other bodies the mucous coat may be forced outwards here and there, between the fibres, in the form of sacs, producing the sacculated bladder. c. The third set of muscular fibres is continued from the other n muscular openings 01 the ureters to the prostate gland, and will be fibres, seen when the bladder is opened. Cellular coat. — This stratum is placed between the mus- cellular cular and mucous layers, and is enumerated amongst thecoat* coats of the bladder; it is composed of areolar and elastic tissues as in other hollow viscera, and in it the blood-vessels ramify. Dissection. — The bladder is now to be opened by an 0pen incision down the front; and the same cut is to be continued ladder, along the upper part of the prostate gland. The mucous membrane of the bladder is continuous pos- Mucous teriorly with that lining the ureters, and anteriorly with that of the urethra. It is very slightly united to the muscular has folds layer in consequence of the intervention of the submucous stratum, and is thrown into numerous folds, in the flaccid state of the viscus, except over a small triangular surface except behind the opening into the urethra. The membrane is soft °pot.n and smooth to the feel, and of a pale rose colour in the healthy state. Its surface is studded with small mucous Follicles, follicles, particularly towards the neck of the bladder. A Epithe- spheroidal epithelium covers the surface. Interior of the bladder.—Within the bladder the following interior R R 4DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 616 of the parts are to be remarked, viz., the orifices of the ureters and urethra, the triangular space, and the muscles of the ureters. Opening Orifices. —At the lower and anterior part of the bladder ofure- . J r tbra is the orifice of the urethra, surrounded by the prostate gland. The mucous membrane presents here some longi- tudinal folds, and the aperture is partly closed by a small with its prominence below, uvula vesicce, occasioned by a thickening of the submucous tissue. This eminence is placed in front of the middle lobe of the prostate, and from its anterior part a slight ridge is continued to the floor of the urethra. Open- About an inch and a half behind the orifice of the urethra, thls °f and rather more than that distance apart, are the two narrow ureters. 0penjngS 0f j.]^ ureters. These excretory tubes for the urine perforate the wall of the bladder obliquely, lying in it for the distance of nearly an inch, and therefore the reflux of fluid through them towards the kidney is prevented, as the bladder is distended: they terminate on each side by a contracted slit-like opening in the centre of a prominence. Trigone Triangular surface. — Immediately behind the orifice of bladder; the urethra is a smooth triangularly-shaped part of the bladder, which is named trigone (trigonum vesicae). Its how apex reaches the prostate, and its base the ureters; or its bound- koun(jarjes may ke marked out by a line on each side from the urethra to the ureter, and by a transverse one behind part cor- between the ureters. This space corresponds to the interval ingex- at the base of the bladder, between the prostate in front and the vesiculae and vasa deferentia on the sides; and over it the mucous coat is closely united to the fibrous and muscular, so as to prevent the accidental folds found in the other parts of the empty bladder. To ex- Dissection.— The muscles of the ureters will come into muscles view on the removal of the mucous membrane, along a line ters. from the urethra to the opening of the ureter of each side : the fibres are best marked in a muscular bladder. . These The muscles of the ureters are " two strong fleshy columns, pa*sC es which descend from the orifices of the ureters towards the from orifice of the bladder," where they become blended into one. ureters a Where these columns unite, they are most fleshy, and their fibres are more intricate ; then directing their course towards to the^ the lower and backmost part of the prostate, they degenerate617 THE MALE URETHRA. into tendon, and are inserted into the portion called the third lobe of the prostate." * Blood-vessels and nerves.—The source of the vesical arteries, and Arteries; the termination of the veins are before detailed (pp. 601. 605.). veins; In the bladder the vessels are disposed in greatest number about its base and neck. Most of the nerves that are distributed to the nerves, bladder, though supplied from the pelvic plexus of the sympathetic (p. 609.), are derived directly from the spinal nerves. THE URETHRA AND PENIS. Urethra. — The tube of the urethra extends from the Extent neck of the bladder to the end of the penis, and has an length; average length of about eight inches. In that extent the canal is supported by the prostate, by the spongy structure of the penis, and by muscular fibre, so that it does not no require, so to say, a thick continuous muscular coat as in coat, many other excretory tubes. The size of the urethra varies at different spots, and the tube is divided, as before said Division (p. 592.), into a prostatic, a membranous, and a spongy parts, part. Dissection.—To open the urethra, let the incision through how to the upper part of the prostate be continued onwards to the urethra.6 extremity of the penis, so as to divide the corpus caverno- sum of that body rather on one side of the middle line, and to leave uncut the septum in it. The prostatic part is nearer the upper than the lower Prostatic aspect of the gland that surrounds it, and lies at first above part* the middle lobe of the prostate. It is about one inch and a pimen- quarter in length, and is altogether the widest and most ex- tensible division of the urethral canal. The form of this shape; part of the tube is spindle-shaped, for it is larger in the middle than at either end. Its transverse measurement, at diame- ter. the neck of the bladder, is about a quarter of an inch ; at its centre a line or two more ; and at the front rather less than at the back. On the floor of the passage, at the neck of the bladder, is on the * the eminence of the uvula vesicae. In front of this is a crest, central longitudinal ridge of the mucous lining, about three * See a Paper by Sir C. Bell, in the Med.- Chir. Transactions, vol. iii.: " Account of the Muscles of the Ureters."618 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. quarters of an inch in length and larger behind than before, which is prolonged anteriorly towards the membranous part of the canal, and is named crest of the urethra (veru mon- tanum, caput galinaginis); it is formed, like the uvula, by a in the thickening of the submucous tissue. In the central fold or pouch, crest of the mucous membrane, near its posterior extremity, is a slight hollow named vesicula prostatica, or sinus pocu- laris. Vesicu- The depression in the mucous fold, or the vesicula pro- jects into statica, is a csecal appendage to the urethral canal, and is state, directed backwards and downwards in the substance of the prostate, for the distance of a quarter of an inch or rather more, passing beneath the middle and between the lateral lobes ; its orifice in the urethra is about a line wide, and its closed extremity is dilated. In its wall, on each side, and in it is contained the common ejaculatory duct, which opens by a ejacuia- narrow slit on or within the free margin of the mouth of the ducts, sac. Small glands likewise open on the surface of the mucous membrane lining it. Some bristles should be intro- duced into the ejaculatory ducts, to render evident their position and apertures. Prostatic On each side of the central ridge or crest is an excavation also in of the glandular substance, named the prostatic sinus. Into this hollow the ducts of the lateral lobes of the prostate open ; whilst the apertures of those of the middle lobe are seen at the posterior part of the central ridge, behind the hollow in it. Mem- The membranous part of the urethra is nearly an inch in part. length, and intervenes between the apex of the prostate gland and the bulb of the corpus spongiosum urethrse. This Dimen- is the narrowest portion of the whole canal, with the excep- slons* tion of the orifice, and measures rather less than a quarter of Parts an inch. It is the weakest of the three divisions of the around. cana^ an(j js SUpp0rted only by a thin stratum of erectile tissue, by some vessels, and by the compressor urethras muscle. Spongy The spongy part includes the rest of the urethra, viz. to parc* the end of the penis. It is about five inches in length, and its strength depends upon an enveloping material, named Dimen- corpus spongiosum urethrse. The average size of the canal S10ns* is about a quarter of an inch in diameter, though at the619 STRUCTURE OF THE URETHRA. vertical slit (meatus urinarius), by which it terminates on the glans penis, the tube is smaller than at any other part of the urethra. Two dilatations exist in the floor of the spongy Two ap- portion : — one is contained in the bulb or bulbous part of tion?; 1 A one in > the urethra, and is named sinus of the bulb ; the other is bulb.< 7 one in situate in the glans penis, and has been called fossa navicu- slans- laris from its shape. Mucous lining of the urethra. — The mucous membrane of Extent; the urethra is continued into the bladder, as well as into the ducts opening into the canal, and joins in front the tegu- ment a ry covering of the glans penis. It is of a reddish colour; colour in the spongy and membranous portions, but in the prostate it becomes whiter. In the spongy part it is thrown into longitudinal folds during the contracted state of the folds $ penis. Its surface is studded with follicles, and with the glands; apertures of mucous glands ; and is provided with papillae towards the external orifice. Its epithelial covering is of ®P^e" the columnar kind, but near the meatus externus this becomes laminar. Some small pouches or lacunce are seen in the interior of Eacunje. the canal, chiefly along the floor, as far back as the prostate, and have their apertures turned towards the outer orifice of the urethra. One of these is larger than the rest, lacuna pne ° 7 larger magna, and is placed generally on the upper aspect or roof ^an the of the urethra, opposite the fossa navicularis. The ducts of Ducts of the prostate and of Cowper's glands open on the mucous ofacow- membrane: the former have been described ; the latter are per* two in number, and terminate, one on each side, on the floor of the urethra near the front of the bulb, but in the ordi- nary examination they, are seldom to be recognised. Submucous tissue.—Beneath the mucous lining of the submu- . . cous urethra is a stratum of contractile fibre-cells, mixed with tissue; elastic and fibrous tissues : this structure differs in its cha-nature; racters along the canal. It is most developed in the prostate, arrange- where it forms two strata: an internal one of longitudinal prostate, fibres, forming the projection of the crest; and an external one of circular fibres. In the membranous portion of the Jn mem- x branous, canal this fibro-muscular structure is less abundant, and seems to be limited to a longitudinal layer, the place of cir- cular being supplied by the fibres of the constrictor urethras- In the spongy part the submucous structure is richer in andDISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 620 spongy fibrous than in muscular elements; and the latter are only parts' longitudinal in direction. Erectile In the prostatic and membranous divisions of the urethra tissue .... through- there is, in addition, a thin enveloping layer of vascular or erectile tissue, that is continued backwards from the corpus spongiosum urethrse to the neck of the bladder. Penis Structure of the Penis. — The form and the connec- oftwo tions of the penis having been described at page 593., it re- vascular . , erectile mains now to notice the tissues 01 which it is composed. The section already made through the penis shows this body to be made up of two masses of spongy and vascular tissue, incased in fibrous membranes—one constituting the corpora cavernosa, the other the corpus spongiosum urethras. Cavern- Corpora cavernosa. — Each corpus cavernosum is con- teriaTf structed of a firm fibrous tunic, that encloses a cavernous struc. or trabecular structure, and contains a plexus of vessels in which it the intervals of the spongy mass. An incomplete median septum exists along the body of the penis between the cor- pora cavernosa. a fibrous The fibrous case of the corpus cavernosum is a white. case strong, elastic covering, from half a line to a line in thick- that ness. Along the middle line of the penis a septal process is process- sent inwards from it; and numerous other finer bands or es'vlz' trabecular of the spongy structure are connected with its inner surface. It is formed of white shining fibres* that are mostly disposed longitudinally. One The septal process extends along the body of the penis, piece! and is thicker and more perfect behind than in front. At the point of junction of the crura of the penis, this partition separates the enclosed cavity of the organ into two parts ; which is.' but as it reaches forwards it becomes less strong, and is imper- . , feet, pierced by elongated apertures, which give it the appearance of a comb, whence the name septum pectiniforme. Through the intervals in the septum the vascular tissue of one corpus cavernosum communicates with that of the other, andnu- The cavernous or trabecular structure is a network of band"8 fibrous cords, that fills the interior of the corpora cavernosa, cords to The fibrous processes are thinner towards the centre than at network, the circumference of the fibrous case; and the areolar spaces are larger in the centre and at the fore part of the contained cavity, than at the circumference or in the crura of the621 STRUCTURE OF THE PENIS. penis. In addition to white fibrous tissue, the trabecule in the contain elastic fibres and muscular fibre cells. —Miiller. The some cellular structure of the penis may be demonstrated by sec- fibres, tions of that body after it has been distended with air and dried. Blood-vessels. — The blood-vessels of the penis are large vessels . . r are erec- in size, and serve to nourish as well as minister to the iunc-tiie;j tion of the organ. Having entered the cavernous mass, they ramify in the interstices of the trabecular structure, and pro- duce the erectile tissue. The arteries of the corpora cavernosa are offsets of the Source . of the pudic, both at the root and along the body of the penis, arteries. Entering the cavernous structure, they divide into branches, which ramify in the trabecular, becoming finer and finer, until they cease in one of the two following ways: — The Termi- greater number of the vessels terminate in capillaries, as m in capil- other parts; but Valentin states that some of the smallest arterial branches open by large orifices into the veins in the in dilated intertrabecular spaces, without the intervention of capil- laries. Others of the terminal twigs end in tufts of short, slightly curled vessels — the helicine arteries of Miiller, or as the which project into the intertrabecular spaces, and become arteries, imbedded in the coat of the thin veins: these twisted vas- cular bodies have dilated csecal extremities, and do not com- municate with the veins. The helicine arteries exist in greatest number at the posterior part of each corpus caver- nosum. The veins fill the interspaces of the areolar structure, and veins are anastomose freely together to form venous plexuses. In andform these spaces the walls of the veins are very thin, because plexuses they receive support from the surrounding fibrous structure. Into the large radicles of the veins the capillaries pour their contents ; and the erectile condition of the corpus cavernosum is produced by the distension of those receptacles. By means of the apertures in the septum the veins of opposite sides communicate freely. Most of the veins of the corpus cavernosum issue along Ending the upper and under aspects of the penis, to end in the veins! dorsal vein ; but some escape near the roots of the body, and join the pudic vein and the prostatic plexus. Corpus spongiosum urethrce. — This constituent part of Spongy622 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. material the penis surrounds the urethra, and forms alone the bulb penis; and the glans penis (p. 594.). The urethra is not enveloped equally on all sides by this tissue, for, at the bulb, only a thin stratum is above the canal. Posteriorly an offset of the corpus spongiosum is continued beyond the bulb, around the urethra. itsstruo Structure. — The tissue of the corpus spongiosum is cavern^ similar to that of the corpus cavernosum: thus it consists of ous* a fibrous tunic, enclosing a trabecular structure, and has a plexiform arrangement of the blood-vessels. The The fibrous covering is less dense and strong than in the case°.US corpora cavernosa. A piece projects inwards from it in the imper- middle line, opposite the bulb, which reaches forwards a septum, short distance, and assists in dividing that body into two lobes. The trabecular bands are much finer, and more uniform in size, than those of the corpora cavernosa. Blood- Blood-vessels.—The terminal arrangement of the blood- likewlse vessels in the erectile structure of the corpus spongiosum is erectile, aimogt identical with that in the corpora cavernosa; but the and he- helicine terminations of the arteries are absent from the heme, j g]ans penig^ where the veins form a very close and regular plexus. Source The arteries are derived from the pudic on each side; rfes!^6" they are the artery of the bulb, and offsets from the dorsal artery, and enter the spongy structure — the first behind, and the latter in front. Kobelt describes another branch to the bulb, at the upper aspect. Termi- Most of the veins, including those of the glans, end in the nation o jargQ ^orsai vejn 0f ^he penis, and some communicate with vems' those of the cavernous body; others issue from the bulb, and terminate in the pudic vein and the prostatic plexus. Nerves. Nerves and lymphatics.—The nerves of the penis are large and are furnished both by the spinal and sympathetic nerves (pp. 453 —609.) : on the bulb of the urethra and the glans penis, they end Lymph- in Pacinian bodies. — Fick. The superficial lymphatics join the allcs' inguinal glands ; the deep accompany the veins beneath the arch of the pubes, to end in the glands in the pelvis. Rectum THE RECTUM. The lower end of the large intestine, that is contained in623 THE RECTUM. the pelvis, is not sacculated like the colon, but is smooth on iS _ smooth. the surface. Dissection. — The rectum is to be washed out, and then To pre- Pare distended with air ; and the peritoneum and the loose cellu- gut. lar membrane are to be removed from it. The rectum is about eight inches in length, and its Length ; average diameter is that of the sigmoid flexure of the colon. Its size is uniform till towards the lower extremity, where it dimen- " sions. is dilated, particularly in old people, but at the aperture of termination in the anus the gut is smaller than in any other part of its extent. The longitudinal bands of the colon are absent from this portion of the alimentary canal, and the fibres are spead over the surface. Structure. — The rectum, like the rest of the large in- same testine, contains in its wall a peritoneal, a muscular, a in the mucous, and a submucous stratum. In it the muscular and the in- the mucous layers have certain peculiarities that serve to testine# distinguish this from other parts of the intestinal tube. The peritoneum forms but an incomplete covering, and its Perito- n , . , , n , neum. arrangement is referred to in the description 01 the connec- tions of the pelvic viscera (p. 587.). The muscular coat consists of two planes of fibres, as in Muscu-' the oesophagus, viz. a superficial or longitudinal, and a deep or circular. These fibres belong to the pale or unstriped kind, but in the internal sphincter some striped fibres may be present. The longitudinal fibres are continuous with those in the has Ion. bands on the colon, but are here diffused to form a stratum gltudlnal around the gut. The circular fibres describe arches along the intestine, and and dr- become thicker and stronger towards the lower extremity, fibres, where they are collected into the band of the internal sphincter muscle. The mucous coat is more moveable than that in the colon, Mucous and resembles in this respect the lining of the oesophagus ; coat it is also thicker and more vascular than that of the rest of thick and the large intestine. When the bowel is contracted thevascular' mucous lining is thrown into numerous accidental folds, Folds in some of which near the anus are longitudinal. But there lt: are other three or four permanent folds, described by Mr. some Houston, which are about half an inch in width, and contain manent.DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 624 some of the circular fibres of the gut.* The most constant of these is about three inches from the anus, on the front of the rectum, opposite the base of the bladder; another is found on the right side of the intestine near the top; and the third is on the left side, midway between the other two: occasionally there is a fourth on the back of the rectum, about an inch from the anus. These folds are not well seen unless the gut. has been hardened in spirit, whilst it is in its natural condition in the pelvis. struc- The mucous membrane has the same general structure as in the colon, but towards the anus the secretory apparatus gradually disappears. Arteries. Blood-vessels. — The arteries are supplied from three different sources: they are, superior haemorrhoidal, from the inferior me- senteric ; middle haemorrhoidal, from the internal iliac artery ; and Veins inferior haemorrhoidal, from the internal pudic. The veins are outWlth" deficient in valves, and communicate freely around the lower end valves. 0£ gU-k Above, they join the inferior mesenteric vein, and, through it, reach the vena portae; and, posteriorly, they pour some blood into the internal iliac vein by branches corresponding to the middle haemorrhoidal artery. Nerves; Nerves and lymphatics. — The nerves for the intestine are ob- tained from the sympathetic, and those for the sphincter, from the lymph- spinal system. The lymphatics terminate in the chain of glands on atics. the sacrum. Section VI. ANATOMY OF THE VISCERA OF THE FEMALE. viscera The viscera of the female pelvis consist of those common to pelvis, both sexes, viz. the bladder and the urethra, with the rectum ; and of those that are special to the female, viz. the organs of generation. To re- Dissection. — The contents of the pelvis are to be removed viscera e together with the genital organs. In this proceeding, the student is to keep the scalpel close to the osseous boundary of the pelvic outlet, to avoid the end of the rectum, and the crura of the clitoris that are connected to the bone. After * Vol. v. of the Dublin Hospital Reports, " Observations on the Mucous Membrane of the Rectum."625 ORGANS OF GENERATION. the parts referred to are taken from the body, the rectum is and pre- . pare to be detached from the uterus and the vagina, but the rest them, of the viscera may remain united until the genital organs have been examined. The bladder may be moderately dis- tended, and the cellular membrane and the vessels are to be removed from the viscera. ORGANS OF GENERATION. The generative organs of the female are classed into ex- ternal and internal, from their position with respect to the pelvis. The external or genital organs consist of the following External parts : — the mons Veneris and the external labia, the clitoris areaus and the internal labia, and the vestibule with the meatus urinarius. Within the external labia is the aperture of the vagina, with the hymen or the remnant of it. Sometimes the term vulva or pudendum is applied to these parts as a whole. Mons Veneris and labia pudendL—In front of the os mons pubis the integument is covered with hair, and is raised into and a slight eminence, — mons Veneris, by a layer of subjacent fat. Extending downwards from the prominence mentioned, are two folds of integument, the labia pudendi (labia ma- labia jora), which correspond to the scrotum in the male. Above rnaJora* and below, the labia are united, the points of junction being named commissures, but between them is an interval called rima. The labia decrease in thickness inferiorly ; they are covered externally with a few hairs, but are lined internally with a mucous membrane provided with follicles and seba- ceous glands. In them is a dartoid tissue resembling that in the male scrotum. Within the lower commissure of the labia is a small thin transverse fold of integuments named Four- chette fourchette, or frenulum; and between this fold and the lower and commissure is the interval of the fossa navicularis. Clitoris and nymphce.—Beneath the upper commissure of clitoris; the labia majora is the projection of the clitoris, with the nymphse or smaller labia descending from it. Dissection. — To see the clitoris, the integument forming dissec- the upper commissure must be removed, and, after the body seeit.° of the organ has been laid bare, the crura are to be followed outwards one to each side. s s626 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. it is like The clitoris is a small erectile body, and is the homologue penis; of the penis ; it has the same anatomy as that organ, with the exception that the urethra and the spongy enveloping sub- has a stance are not present below it. Its anterior extremity is glans and 1 J prepuce, terminated by a rounded part or glans, and is covered by a fold of the skin, corresponding to the prepuce of the male, which is provided with sebaceous glands. In structure this organ resembles the penis in the following particulars : — it corpora consists of corpora cavernosa, which are attached by crura caver- x J nosa, (one on each, side) to the rami of the ischium and pubes and are then blended to form one body, with an imperfect pecti- niform septum ; and further, it possesses a corpus spongiosum, but this structure is limited to the glans clitoridis, that it and forms. In the interior of both constituent bodies is an tissue, erectile tissue, like that of the male (p. 621.). The nymphce Labia (labia minora) are two folds of mucous membrane that de- descend scend from the end of the clitoris, one on each side of the prepuce, orifice of the vagina: they are continuous above with the preputial covering of the clitoris, and extend down about one inch and a half. The inner surface is continuous with the lining of the vestibular space and the vagina; and the outer, with the covering of the external labium. Blood-vessels are contained in each fold, vesti- Vestibule and orifice of the urethra. —Within the nymphae, bule" between the clitoris above and the vagina below, is an an- gular interval, about one inch and a half deep, which is called Opening the vestibule. In the middle line of the vestibular space is urethra, the round orifice of the urethra, which is contained in an eminence about one inch below the clitoris, and near the aperture of the vagina. Aperture Orifice of the vagina and the hymen. — The aperture of vagina, the vagina is close below the meatus urinarius, and varies much in size. In the child and in the virgin it is partly closed below by a thin semilunar fold of mucous membrane Hymen named the hymen. After the destruction of the membrane, runcuik small irregularly-shaped projections, carunculce myrtiformes, exist around the opening of the vagina. The internal generative organs are the uterus and the vagina, and the ovaries with the Fallopian tubes, separate Dissection. — The viscera are now to be separated, so that vagina A and the bladder and the urethra may be together, and the vagina uterus. •> a ^627 THE VAGINA. and the uterus remain united. The bladder is to be set aside for subsequent use, since the other organs may first be learnt. The surface of the vagina, and that of the lower part of the uterus should be cleaned, but the peritoneal investment of the latter is to be left untouched for the present. THE VAGINA. The vagina is a dilatable tube, that is connected with the Extent uterus at one end, and terminates in the vulva at the other. It has a curved course between the two points mentioned : and and the anterior and posterior surfaces of the tube are not course, equal in length, for whilst the former measures about four inches, the latter is about five or six in extent. In its position in the body the vagina is flattened from Form above downwards, so that the opposite surfaces may be in contact, but the upper end is rounded where it is joined to the uterus. Its size varies at different spots : thus the ex- and size, ternal orifice which is surrounded by the constrictor vaginas muscle is the narrowest part, the middle portion is the largest, and the upper end is intermediate in dimensions between the other two. After the vagina has been laid open by an incision along interior the upper wall, the position of the uterus in that wall, in- stead of at the extremity, may be remarked ; and further, the tube can be seen to extend higher on the posterior than the anterior aspect of the cervix uteri. On the inner surface, towards the lower part, is a slight longitudinal ridge both in front and behind, named columns of the vagina. Before the has tissue of the vagina has been distended, other transverse and ridges or rugce may be seen passing between the columns. russe' The wall of the vagina is thicker anteriorly, where the Wall, urethra is situate, than at any other part of the canal. Structure. — The vaginal wall is formed by a spongy An erec- erectile tissue; this is covered externally by a dilatable and structure vascular fibro-cellular layer, and lined internally by mucous wan.e membrane. At its lower end the tube is surrounded by a band of the fibres of the sphincter vaginas muscle (p. 456.). The erectile tissue is most abundant at the lower part of Erectile the vagina, where it gives the greater thickness to the wall. tlssue Two masses of the erectile tissue, one on each side of the forms628 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. semi- opening of the vagina, have been described as the semi-bulbs by Taylor, and as the bulbi vestibuli by Kobelt. These are elongated masses of plexiform veins, about an inch in length, which are enclosed in fibrous membrane, and are situate one on each side of the vestibule, where they are covered on the outer side by the constrictor vaginae. At its upper part each is pointed, is continued to the clitoris, and commu- nicates with the vessels of that body ; whilst at the posterior which rounded part it joins the venous plexus of the vagina. These corre- the "bulb bodies are supposed by Kobelt to be the homologue of the male6 bulb °^ *ne corPus spongiosum urethras in the male ; but in the female this corresponding part is split, instead of forming one piece in the middle line, and each lateral half is thrust aside towards the crus clitoridis by the aperture of the vagina. Mucous The mucous membrane is continued through the lower brane aperture, over the vessels of the nymphae, which it encloses, vagina, to join the integument on the labia majora ; and through the os uteri, at the opposite end, to the interior of the uterus. Many muciparous glands and follicles abound on the surface, but these are in greatest abundance at the upper part. A laminar epithelium gives a lining to the membrane. Muscu- Beneath the mucous membrane is a stratum of contractile tum.trd" fibre cells ; these are arranged for the most part in a circular direction, but some have a longitudinal course. These are largest during pregnancy, or in those who have borne chil- dren.—Kolliker. Arteries. Blood-vessels and nerves. — The arteries are derived from the Veins visceral branches of the internal iliac. The veins, corresponding to piexi- the arteries, form a plexus around the vagina, as well as in the form. external or genital organs, and open into the internal iliac vein. For a description of the nerves see page 610. Two Glands of BartJioline. — On the outer part of the vagina, fnaio- near tne aperture at the lower end, are two small yellowish c°ow-to glandular bodies, one on each side, that are homologous with per's. Cowper's glands in the male. Each is about the size of a small bean ; it is provided with a duct, that is directed forwards to open on the inner aspect of the corresponding nympha.629 THE UTERUS. THE UTERUS. The uterus, or the womb is formed chiefly of unstriped Defini- muscular fibres. Its office is to receive and retain for atlon? fixed period the developing ovum. This viscus, in the virgin state, is pear-shaped, or rather form; triangular in consequence of the body being flattened, and presents inferiorly a rounded narrow part or neck. Devia- tions from the standard shape will be found in this organ in how the infant, in which the neck is larger than the body ; and in changed- that of the aged female, in whom there is little separation between the same two parts. Commonly the uterus measures about three inches in Dimen- length, two in breadth at the upper part, and an inch in slons* greatest thickness. Its weight varies from an ounce to an ounce and a half. But after gestation its size and volume always exceed the specification here made of them. The upper end is convex, and is covered by peritoneum: upper the term fundus is applied to the part of the organ above the end* attachment of the Fallopian tube. The lower end is small and The rounded, and in it is a transverse aperture of communication endls between the uterus and the vagina, named os uteri {os tincce), sma115 whose margins or lips (labia) are smooth, and anterior and opening, posterior in situation, but the hinder one is the longest. Towards the lower part the uterus is constricted, and this diminished portion is called the neck of the uterus {cervix Neck> uteri) ; it is surrounded by the vagina, and is covered by this to a greater extent behind than in front. It is about half an inch in length, and gradually tapers towards the ex- tremity. The body, or the intervening part of the uterus, is body. more convex posteriorly than anteriorly, and decreases in size down to the neck. It is covered on both aspects by the peritoneum, except about half an inch in front at the lower part, where it connected to the bladder. To each side, which sides> is straight, the parts contained in the broad fold of the peri- toneum are attached, viz, the Fallopian tube at the top, the round ligament rather below and before it, and the ovary and its ligament below and behind the others. Dissection. — To examine the interior of the uterus, a cut 0penthe is to be made along the anterior wall, from the fundus to the uterus- s s 3630 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. os uteri; and then enough of the tissue is to be taken away on each side of the middle line to show the contained cavity, its thick- The thickness of the uterine wall is greatest opposite the ness. . middle of the body, and at the centre of the fundus ; but from those spots the wall becomes thinner towards the attachment of the Fallopian tubes, in the Interior of the uterus.—Within the uterus is a small space, which is artificially divided into two—one of the body, isatri- another of the neck of the organ. The space occupying the space in body of the viscus is triangular in form, and is larger than the body, J & ? & the other. The base is at the fundus of the uterus, where it is convex towards the cavity, and the angles are prolonged which is towards the Fallopian tubes. The apex is directed down- ed^™" wards, and joins the cavity in the cervix by a narrowed cir- and a cu^r part, isthmus (os uteri internum). The space within sniped" tne nech terminates inferiorly at the os uteri; and above thenVck at tne sPace within the body, as before said, but this last opening may be smaller than the one into the vagina. It is larger at the middle than at either end, being spindle-shaped, and is somewhat flattened, like the cavity of the body. Along both the anterior and the posterior wall is a longitu- in the dinal ridge, and other ridges (rugce) are directed obliquely ridges from these on each side : this appearance has been named arbor arbor vitce uterinus. In the intervals between the rugae are vitae. some mucous follicles, which sometimes become filled and distended with fluid, and give rise to the ovula of Naboth. uterus Structure. — The dense wall of the uterus is composed cuiar1118" of layers of unstriped muscular fibre, intermixed with fibro- orgdn* cellular structure, and large blood-vessels. On the exterior is the peritoneum, and lining the interior is a thin mucous membrane. There The muscular fibres can be demonstrated at the full period strata7e of gestation to form three strata in the wall of the uterus, external, viz. exernal, internal, and middle. The external layer con- tains fibres which are mostly transverse, but at the fundus and at the sides they are oblique, and there they are more marked than along the middle of the organ. Externally the fibres converge towards the broad ligament; some are in- serted into that membrane ; whilst others are prolonged on the Fallopian tube, the round ligament, and the ligament of internal, the ovary. The internal fibres describe circles around the631 STRUCTURE OF THE UTERUS. openings of the Fallopian tubes, and spread from these till they meet at the middle line of the uterus. The middle or an.a J middle. intervening set of fibres are more indistinct than the others, and have a less determinate direction. The mucous lining is continued into the vagina at one Mucous end of the uterus, and into the Fallopian tubes at the other. In the interior of the uterus it is thin, smooth, and adherent. Like the mucous membrane of the intestine, it possesses tubular glands, which may be either straight and simple, or covered may be twisted or branched : the apertures of these are glands, scattered over the surface. Between the rugse of the cervix Follicles uteri mucous follicles and glands are collected. The epithe- neck . ■ n , , .1 Epithe- lial covering 01 the mucous membrane is columnar and hum. ciliated as low as the middle of the cavity of the neck, but laminar beyond that point. The blood-vessels of the uterus are large and tortuous ; and the Vessels veins occupy canals in the uterine substance, in which they com- i™ge. municate freely together. The arteries are furnished from the Arteries; uterine and ovarian branches : the veins correspond with the arteries veins; in name and number. The nerves are derived from the sympa- nerves, thetic, and are very small in proportion to the size of the uterus : they are not enlarged in pregnancy.—Beck.* Mound ligament of the uterus. — This firm cord supports This the uterus, and is contained partly in the broad ligament , ends in and partly in the inguinal canal (p. 478.). It is about four 8r°m' or five inches in length, and is attached to the upper part of Attach- the uterus close below, and anterior to the Fallopian tube. merus° A process of the peritoneum accompanies the part of the cord in the inguinal canal, and sometimes remains pervious for a short distance. The ligament is composed of unstriped how muscular fibres, derived from the uterus, together with ves- sels and cellular membrane. OVARIES AND FALLOPIAN TUBES. Ovary.—-The ovaries are two bodies, analogous to the pOSition; testes of the male; they are contained in the broad ligaments of the uterus, -one in each, and at the posterior aspect. Each ovary is of an elongated form, and somewhat flat- form and colour ; * See a Paper in the Philosophical Transactions for 1846.632 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. tened from above down; it is of a whitish colour, with either dimen- a smooth or a scarred surface. Its volume is variable, but sions in the virgin state it is about one inch and a half in length, and half that size in width, and a third in thickness; its weight weight. , . n & is nearly a quarter of an ounce. Connec- The ovary is connected with the broad ligament by its anterior margin, where the vessels enter it. Its outer end is rounded, and is connected with one of the fimbrise at the mouth of the Fallopian tube ; but the inner extremity is narrowed, and is attached to the side of the uterus by a fibrous cord, the ligament of the ovary, below the level of both the Fallopian tube and the round ligament. Glandu- Structure, — The ovary consists of a spongy vascular struc- tissue or stroma, which contains small vesicles, named ture. Graafian, and is enclosed within a fibrous tunic. The peri- toneum surrounds the wnole, except at the attached margin. a fibrous The special fibrous coat (tunica albuginea) is of some rounds thickness and of a whitish colour, whence its name, and is adherent to the contained stroma. Sometimes a yellow spot (corpus luteum) or some fibrous cicatrices may be seen in this covering. in the The Graafian vesicles are small round transparent bodies, are small and are from eight to twenty in number in women who have not borne children : they vary in size from a pin's head to a pea, and are scattered through the stroma of the ovary, size and They are largest in size towards the circumference of the number. -, * . . _ , organ, and sometimes they may be seen projecting through the fibrous coat. Coat? Each consists of a transparent coat, and contains a fluid. The coat of the vesicle, named ovi-capsule, is formed of fine fibro-cellular structure, and is connected to the stroma of the ovary by a network of blood-vessels : lining it is a layer of nucleated cells—the memhr. granulosa of Baer. The contents, fluid in the interior is transparent and albuminous; and in it is suspended the minute vesicular ovum, together with molecular granules, shed- When the Graafian vesicle is matured it bursts on the reside.a surface of the ovary, and the contained ovum escapes into the Fallopian tube. After the shedding of the ovum the Form- ruptured vesicle gives origin to a yellow substance, corpus corpus luteum, which changes finally into a cicatrix. luteum.FALLOPIAN TUBE. 633 Blood-vessels and nerves.—The ovarian artery pierces the ovary Artery; at the anterior or attached border, and its branches run in zig-zag lines through the stroma. The veins of this body, after escaping veins; from its substance, form a plexus {pampiniform) near the ovary, and within the fold of the broad ligament. The nerves are derived nerves, from the sympathetic on the ovarian and uterine vessels. Fallopian Tubes. — These tubes convey the ova from use, the ovaries to the uterus, and correspond in their office to the vasa deferentia in the male. The tubes are two in number, one on each side. Each is length, about four inches in length : it is cord-like, at the inner end, where it is attached to the upper part of the uterus, but and increases in size towards the outer end, and terminates in a form' wide extremity, like the mouth of a trumpet. This dilated itisdi- lated ex- end is fringed and named corpus Jimbriatum, and the serra- temaiiy, tions of its circumference are called fimbriae: when the lim- and fim_ briated end is floated out in water, one of the processes may briatea- be seen to be connected with the outer end of the ovary. In the centre of the fimbriae is a groove, that leads to the orifice of the Fallopian tube. On opening the tube with care, the size of the contained size of space, and the small aperture into the uterus can be observed, u feSJat Its canal varies in size at different spots; — the narrowesttheends' part is at the orifice into the uterus, where it scarcely gives passage to a fine bristle; towards the outer end it increases a little, but it is again rather diminished in diameter at the outer aperture. Structure. — This excretory tube has the same structure a mus- as the uterus with which it is connected, viz. a muscular struc- tunic, which is covered externally by peritoneum, and linedture' by mucous membrane. The muscular coat is formed of an external or longitudi- Fibres' nal, and of an internal or circular layer; both these are con- ed°fr°om" tinuous with similar strata in the wall of the uterus. The mucous membrane forms some longitudinal folds, Mucous particularly at the outer end. At the inner extremity 0fcoat the canal it joins the mucous lining of the uterus, but at the outer end it is continuous with the peritoneal,covering. A is con- columnar ciliated epithelium covers the surface, as in the S?th°pe- uterus. ujre- The blood-vessels and nerves are furnished from those that supply Vessels, the uterus and the ovary.DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 634 THE BLADDER, URETHRA,, AND RECTUM. Anatomy Bladder. — The peculiarities in the form and size of the bladder, female bladder have been noticed in the description of the before, connections of the viscera of the female pelvis (p. 598.). For a notice of its structure, the anatomy of the male bladder is to be referred to (p. 614.). tionPo7ft~ Dissection.—To prepare the bladder, distend it with air, and remove the peritoneal covering and the cellular mem- brane from the muscular fibres. The urethra is to be slit open along the upper part with the bladder, after their external anatomy has been learnt. Length Urethra.—The length and the connections of this ex- of ure- thra; cretory tube are given in page 598. size; The average diameter of the tube is rather more than a quarter of an inch, and the canal is enlarged and funnel- shaped towards the neck of the bladder. Near the external it can be aperture there is a hollow in the floor of the tube. In con- much A dilated, sequence of not being surrounded by such resistant struc- tures, the urethra is much more dilatable than the corre- sponding passage in the male. Tube Structure. — This tube, like the urethra of the male, con- in the sists of a mucous coat, which is enveloped by a plexus of blood-vessels, and by muscular fibre. Mucous The mucous coat is pale except near the outer orifice. It coat* is marked by longitudinal folds ; and one of these, in the a fold in floor of the canal, resembles the median crest in the male floor. urethra (p. 618.). Around the outer orifice are some mucous Follicles follicles : and towards the inner end are some tubular mucous and J 3 glands, glands, whose apertures are arranged in lines between the folds of the membrane, and are turned towards the bladder. Epithe- A laminar epithelium is spread over the surface, which be- comes irregular in form (spheroidal) at the bladder. Sub- A submucous stratum of elastic and muscular tissues inter- mucous .ill it tissue, venes, as in the male, between the mucous coat and the vascular structure that envelops the canal of the urethra. Rectum Rectum.—The structure of the rectum is so similar in the like that male6 two sexes tnat student may use the description given for that tube in the section on the anatomy of the viscera of the male pelvis (p. 622.).635 INTERNAL PELVIC MUSCLES. Dissection. — The rectum may be prepared for examination Prepara- by distending it with air, and removing the peritoneal cover- rectum, ing and the cellular membrane from it. Section VII. INTERNAL MUSCLES AND THE LIGAMENTS OF THE PELVIS. Muscles.—The two following muscles, pyriformis and obtu- Two . . . . . P muscles. rator mternus, have their origin within the cavity 01 the pelvis. The pyriformis muscle is wide and fleshy within the pyrifor- pelvis, and is directed outwards through the great sacro- situa sciatic notch to be inserted into the great trochanter of the tlon' femur. Narrowing in its progress, the muscle has received its name from its form. In the pelvis the pyriformis is attached by three slips to origin the second, third, and fourth pieces of the sacrum, both peivls between, and external to the anterior apertures; as it passes from the pelvis, it takes origin also from the surface of the ilium which forms the upper part of the large sacro- sciatic notch, and from the great sacro-sciatic ligament. From this origin the fibres converge to the tendon of inser- Inser_ tion into the trochanter. (See Dissection of the But- tlon' tock.). The anterior surface is in contact with the rec- its con- tum, with the sacral plexus, and with the sciatic and pudic weith°ns branches of the internal iliac vessels; whilst the opposite around, surface rests on the sacrum, and is covered by the great gluteal muscle outside the pelvis. The upper border is near the ilium, but separated from it by the gluteal vessels and the superior gluteal nerve; and the lower is contiguous to the coccygeus muscle, only the sciatic and pudic vessels and nerves intervening. The OBTURATOR INTERNUS MUSCLE, like the preceding, Obtura- has its origin in the pelvis, and its insertion out of the muscle cavity at the great trochanter of the femur ; but the part outside, is almost parallel in direction with that inside the is bent , . over pelvis. pelvis. The muscle arises by a broad fleshy attachment from the Origin inner surface of the obturator membrane, and the fibrous pelvis.DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 636 arch bounding the notch containing the obturator vessels and nerve; from the surface of bone internal to the mem- brane ; and from all the smooth surface of the os ischii be- hind the obturator hole, reaching upwards to the brim, downwards to the outlet, and backwards to the great sacro- Arching sciatic notch of the pelvis. The fibres are directed back- tetldons wards and somewhat downwards, and end in four or five ischium, tendinous pieces, which turn over the sharp pulley-like surface of the ischium corresponding to the space of the small sacro-sciatic notch. Outside the pelvis these tendons inser- are blended into one, which is fixed into the great trochanter, and is met with in the dissection of the buttock. The pelvic Part of portion of the muscle is in contact by one side with the wall muscle . is in of the pelvis and with the obturator membrane ; by the pelvic cavity, other side with the fascia lining the pelvic wall, and towards its lower border with the pudic vessels and nerve. Above part in the level of the levator ani, viz. from the lower part of the space?31 symphysis pubis to the spine of the ischium, the muscle cor- responds to the cavity of the pelvis, but below that line, to the ischio-rectal fossa. Coccy- Coccygeus muscle.—The position and the connections of muscle this muscle may now be studied in the interior of the pelvis, to be The muscle is described at p. 584. again re- 1 ferred to. ARTICULATIONS OF THE PELVIS. Outline The several bones of the pelvis have the following articu- articuia- lations with one another. The sacrum is joined by its base tlons* to the last lumbar vertebra, and by its apex to the coccyx, by special ligaments. Laterally, this central bone is united with the two innominate bones. And the innominate bones are connected together in front, as well as to the sacrum and the spinal column posteriorly. Union of Sacro-vertebral Articulation The base of the wfthXst sacrum is articulated with the last lumbar vertebra by liga- vertebra. ments similar t0 those uniting one vertebra to another (p. 394.) ; and by one special ligament — the sacro-vertebral. Dissec- Dissection.—For the best manner of bringing these dif- ferent ligaments into view, the dissector must consult the directions that have been given respecting the dissection of the ligaments of the vertebras (p. 394.). tion.LIGAMENTS OF THE PELVIS. 637 The common ligaments between the bodies of the two By liga- bones are an anterior and a posterior ligament, with an in- in the tervening fibro-cartilaginous substance. Between the neural brae, arch and the spines are the ligamenta subflava, and inter- spinous bands ; and between the articular processes are cap- sular ligaments and synovial membranes. The sacro-vertebral ligament is a strong bundle of fibres, and^by a that reaches from the under aspect of the tip of the trans- band, 1 A sacro- verse process of the last lumbar vertebra, to the lateral part verte- of the base of the sacrum. Widening as it descends, the ligament spreads, and joins the fibres in front of the lateral articulation between the sacrum and the innominate bone. Sacrococcygeal Articulation. — The sacrum and the Union of sacrum coccyx are united by a fibro-cartilage, and by an anterior *nJ? and a posterior common ligament. Dissection. — Little dissection is necessary for these liga- J^sec- ments. When the cellular membrane has been removed altogether from the bones, the ligaments will be apparent. The anterior ligament (sacro-coccygeal) consists of a few An an- fibres that pass between the bones in front of the fibro- and cartilage. The posterior ligament is wide at its attachment to the a poste- x m rior liga- lower margin of the orifice of the sacral canal, but narrows ment, as it descends to be inserted into the coccyx. The fibro-cartilage resembles that between the vertebrae, and a and is attached to the surfaces of the bones. cani- Whilst the several pieces of the coccyx remain separate, union they are connected together by anterior and 'posterior bands, and by intervening thin fibro-cartilage. But in the male coccyx adult the bones are generally joined by ossific matter. Sacro-iliac Articulation.—The irregular surfaces by union which the sacrum and the innominate bone touch, are united thela!n by cartilage, and maintained in contact by anterior and pos- and™1 terior sacro-iliac ligaments. Inferiorly the bones are further connected, without being in contact, by the strong sacro- sciatic ligaments. Dissection. — To see the posterior ligaments, the mass of To dis- muscle at the back of the sacrum is to be removed on the liga- side on which the innominate bone remains ; but the anterior bands will be visible on the removal of some cellular mem- brane. The great sacro-sciatic ligament is dissected withDISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 638 the lower limb, and the small ligament will be brought into view by removing the coccjgeus. Anterior The anterior sacro-iliac ligament consists of a few thin scattered fibres, that are attached to the sacrum and the ilium near their articular surfaces. ?erior°]i" Posier^or ligaments (sacro-iliac) are much stronger gaments; than the anterior, and the fibres are collected into bundles. These ligaments pass from the rough inner surface at the posterior extremity of the innominate bone to the first two one more pieces of the sacrum. One bundle, which is distinct from than the the others, and more superficial, is named the oblique or long posterior ligament; it is attached to the posterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and descends almost vertically to the third piece of the sacrum, with ar- Articular cartilage, — Between the irregular surfaces of cartu the bones in this articulation (sacro-iliac symphysis) is a thin uneven layer of cartilage. In it there is sometimes a hollow with irregular surfaces like that in the cartilage of the sym- physis pubis. The cartilage may be detached with a knife, on separating the bones, after the other ligaments are ex- amined. Sacro- Two sacro-sciatic ligaments pass from the lateral part of Hga- the sacrum and coccyx to the spine and tuberosity of the are two; ischium, across the space at the back of the pelvis, between the posterior border of the innominate bone and the sacrum; by their position they convert into two apertures or foramina (sacro-sciatic), the large sacro-sciatic excavation in the dried bones : these openings, and the parts they give passage to, are described in the dissection of the buttock. The liga- ments are named large and small, large; The large ligament reaches from the side of the sacrum and coccyx to the tuberosity of the ischium ; but it may have been cut in the dissection of the gluteal region, with which it is to be examined, small; The small ligament is attached internally by a wide part to the border of the sacrum and coccyx, where it is united with the origin of the preceding ligament. The fibres are attach- directed outwards to the spine of the ischium, and are in- serted into it by a narrowed part. Its pelvic surface is and con- covered by the coccygeus muscle, and its opposite surface nections. ^ ^e great sacro-sciatic ligament. Above this ligament,LIGAMENTS OF THE PELVIS. 639 between it and the bone, is the large sacro-sciatic foramen, and below it is the small foramen of the same name. Ligaments of the Innominate Bones. — The innomi- special nate bones are united in front, at the pubic symphysis, by an ments of interposed cartilage and special ligaments; and behind, each ral bones is connected with the transverse process of the last lumbar pelvis, vertebra by a band (ilio-lumbar). In the centre of the bone is a membranous structure closing the obturator aperture. The ilio-lumbar ligament is triangular in form and is mo divided into fasciculi. Internally it is attached to the tip of the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra; externally fixes the the fibres spread out, and are inserted into the crest of the hind, ilium, opposite the posterior part of the iliac fossa on the inner aspect. To the upper border of this ligament part of the fascia lumborum is attached : its posterior surface is covered by the erector spina?, and its anterior by the iliacus muscle. The obturator membrane closes the foramen of the same obtura- tor mem- name, and is composed of fibres crossing in different direc- brane . closes an tions. It is attached at the outer and upper part to the aperture rr r in front. bony margin 01 the foramen, except above where the obtu- rator vessels lie ; and is connected towards the inner part to the pelvic aspect of the bone. The surfaces of the ligament give attachment to the obturator muscles. Branches of the obturator artery and nerve perforate it. Pubic Articulation (symphysis pubis). — The oval sur- Union faces of the ossa pubis are united by cartilage, and by fibres ossa^ in front of, and above the bones. They are also connected by a strong sub-pubic ligament. The anterior pubic ligament is very strong, and is formed b\nnt^rior of different layers of fibres. The superficial are oblique, and cross one another, uniting with the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen ; but the deeper fibres are transverse, and pass between the cartilaginous surfaces of the bones. Some of the deeper fibres contain cartilage cells —Kolliker. There is not any posterior band; but beneath the periosteum there are a few scattered fibro- cartilaginous fibres, as in front, in contact with the carti- lage.640 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Superb The superior ligamentous bands are placed as their name or band. expresses. sub- The sub-pubic ligament (ligam. arcuatum) is a strong jjg^i triangularly-shaped band below the symphysis, and occupies the upper part of the pubic arch. Its fibres curve down- wards, and are attached on each side to the upper part of the ramus of the pubes. The apex of the ligament touches the articular cartilage, and the base is turned towards the mem- branous part of the urethra and the muscle around it. Carti- Cartilage. — This structure will be best seen by opening how' the articulation behind : a transverse section will also show ' the disposition of the anterior ligament of the articulation, disposi- The surface of each innominate bone entering into the the sym- pubic symphysis is covered with a stratum of cartilage. In physic, consequence 0f the shape of the bones, the opposite carti- lages touch one another behind, but are separated in front by an interval, where they give attachment to the deep transverse fibres of the anterior ligament. At the centre and the upper part of the articulation, the pieces of cartilage are generally blended in the middle line, but the extent of this union is very variable, hoijow Towards the posterior part of the cartilaginous mass is a hollow* with uneven walls, and a synovial looking fluid. Here the structure is distinctly fibrous, with large inter- spersed compound cells. * This hollow varies much in size, and in the smoothness of its walls. It is said to increase in pregnancy. In two female bodies in which I examined it, the one being at the middle of pregnancy, the other not pregnant, the space occupied all the articulation except the part in front, where the fibrous bands of the anterior ligament are situate..641 ARTERIES OF THE ABDOMEN. TABLE OF THE ARTERIES OF THE ABDOMEN. 1. Phrenic. 2. cceliac axis* 3. superior mesenteric* Coronary hepatic ^splenic fPancreatic I intestinal -\ ileo-colic I right colic ^middle colic. \[ CEsophageal gastric. Superior pylo- ric gastro epi- ploic lefc hepatic branch right hepatic ~ branch C pancreatic vasa brevia J splenic J left gastro- ^ epiploic. (Inferior pyloric s pancreatico- (. duodenal. | Cystic. 5. renal 6. spermatic 7. inferior (-Left colic mesenteric* < sigmoid (^superior hemorrhoidal. 8. lumbar 9. middle sacral* 10. common iliac External iliac C Pubic branch ("Epigastric -s anastomotic *J (..cremasteric. ^circumflex iliac "Ilio-lumbar lateral sacral gluteal ^internal iliac Parietal branches pudic visceral t_ branches ^-obturator rMiddle hsemor- rhoidal -J vesical I uterine I vaginal. _ C Superficial "? deep. TCoccygeal ! cnmps nprvi Lmuscular. 'Visceral inferior haemor- rhoidal superficial perinaeal transverse perinaeal artery of the bulb to corpus caver- nosum ^dorsal artery. Articular. * The branches marked with an asterisk are single. T TVEINS OF THE ABDOMEN. 642 TABLE OF THE VEINS OF THE ABDOMEN. Inferior Vena cava receives 1. Common iliac - - Internal iliac - Visceral branches Hemorrhoidal plexus. {Vesical dorsalofthe deep veins of the penis. uterine ^vaginal. parietal . branches Obturator pudic Veins of corpus cavernosum of the bulb transverse peri- neal superficial peri- neal inferior hemor- rhoidal. /-coccygeal \ comes nervi "■s ischiadici ( muscular. ^gluteal. external iliac ilio-lumbar lateral sacral middle sa- cral into ^ the left. C Epigastric 1 circumflex iliac. vertebro- lumbar , right spermatic 4. renal- (-Right "11eft fcaPsular. (/eit I spermatic. 5. right capsular 6. diaphragm- atic 7. vena portae by means of the hepatic veins Splenic Splenic branches vasa brevia pancreatic left gastro- epiploic. inferior me- - senteric Intestinal ileo-colic right colic middle colic right gastro- epiploic pancreatic. ('Left colic J sigmoid -i superior hemor- rhoidal. -cystic.643 SPINAL NERVES OF THE * ABDOMEN. TABLE OF THE SPINAL NERVES IN THE ABDOMEN. /'Internal r Posterior branches 3 J external Lumbar spinal^ nerves divide into - Muscular. ("Muscular " \ cutaneous. Anteriorbranches; of these the four first end in the LUMBAR PLEX- US *, which sup- _ plies /'Cutaneous of the -Ilio-hypogastric3hj^g™tr.c branch. mo-inguina, - £ ™5^ments of external cutane- C To integuments of ous - -| the thigh. „ •, „„,,;.,, i C Genital branch gemto-crural - |crural branch. anterior-crural Lobturator rBranches inside \ muscle. the pelvis 1 To the femoral j artery. J Branches outside < the pelvis - < are noticed in the thigh. Accessory C Other offsets are described in the C thigh. Sacral "spinal nerves divide into - Posterior branches^ Muscular and unite together L cutaneous fila- and give off J ments. The anterior branches of the four superior unite with the< lumbo-sacral in the sacralplex- usf, and furnish (Visceral to levator ani to obturator inter- * nus to the pyriformis. rpudic branches outside . the pelvis -Inferior hemor- rhoidal superficial peri- neal — (anterior and posterior) muscular to the bulb Ldorsalof the penis. inferior hemor- rhoidal times). To the superior-^ gemellus to the inferior ge- mellus and the quadratus articular small sciatic Lgreat sciatic these are described in the thigh. * The lumbo-sacral gives off the superior gluteal nerve, f The other nerves are described at p. 607.644 NERVES OF THE ABDOMEN. TABLE OF THE SYMPATHETIC NERVE OF THE ABDOMEN. Solar plexus* or prevertebral centre of the abdomen, furnishes the follow- ing plexuses: Diaphragmatic superior mesenteric supra-renal renal - aortic - spermatic inferior mesenteric CCoronary plexus hepatic - /'Pyloric \ right gastroepiploic " i pancreatoduodenal (^cystic f Left gastro-epiploic " 1 pancreatic. ^splenic - Offsets to small and large intestine. - Spermatic plexus, filaments to the. - Hypogastric. _ ( Offsets to the large intestine ' (. Superior hemorrhoidal. Hypogastric plexus f, ends in the pelvic plexus on each side,- which gives the fol- ' lowing plexuses: CInferior hemorrhoidal uterine vaginal. /"Prostatic _ \ cavernous " i deferential (j;o vesiculae seminales. ("External branches Gangltated cord of J the sympathetic inj the abdomen plies sup- _ C To the lumbar and sacral " l spinal nerves. r"To aortic plexus j to hypogastric plexus j to join round middle "1 sacral artery I between the cords on the coccyx, ^ in the ganglion impar. /"Great splanchnic nerves * This receives } part of small splanchnic (^offset of pneumo-gastric. * tu;c. {«, i~\~~a f The aortic plexus Ibove bv \ filaments from the lumbar y (_ ganglia. PNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVE IN THE ABDOMEN. Pneumo-gastric - Right .left ('Coronary branches to the back of the stomach filaments to join the cceliac and splenic plexuses. ^Coronary branches J to the front of the *f stomach and the ^ hepatic plexus.645 T T 3 CHAPTER IX. DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. Section I. THE FRONT OF THE THIGH. All the parts described in Section I. are to be examined Direc- before the time for turning the body has arrived. Position. — During the dissection of the front of the thigh Position the body should lie on the back, with a block of a suitable body, size beneath the pelvis, and the lower limbs should hang over the end of the dissecting table. The limb is to be rotated outwards, so as to make evident a hollow at the upper part of the thigh; and is to be supported in a half bent position by means of a stool beneath the foot. Surface marking. — Before any of the integument is re- objects moved from the limb, the student is to observe the chief surface, markings and eminences on the surface of the thigh. The limit between the thigh and the abdomen is marked Promi- nences in front by the firm band of Poupart's ligament inter- limiting i , 1 thethigr venmg between the crest of the ilium and the pubes. above. On the outer side the division is indicated by the convexity of the crest of the innominate bone, which subsides behind in the sacrum and coccyx; and on the inner side, by the projection of the os pubis, from which a line of bone (rami of the pubes and ischium) may be traced backwards along the inner and upper part of the limb to the tuberosity of the ischium. On the anterior aspect of the thigh, and close to Poupart's Hoiiow- ligament, is a slight hollow, corresponding to the triangular pI'sCdr~ space of Scarpa, in which the large vessels of the limb are space* contained; and extending thence obliquely along the inner side of the limb, is a slight depression marking the situationDISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 646 Groove of the femoral artery beneath: the position of this arterial femoVai trunk may be ascertained by a line on the surface from the artery. centre Q£ interval between the symphysis pubis and the crest of the innominate bone, to the inner side of the patella. Position On the outer side of the thigh, about four inches below the trochan- crest of the ilium and the same distance from the anterior ter. spine, the student will be able to recognise the well marked Head of projection of the great trochanter of the femur. In a thin femur, body the head of the femur may be felt by rotating the limb inwards and outwards, whilst the thumb of one hand is placed in the hollow below Poupart's ligament, and the fingers behind the great trochanter. Bony At the knee the outline of the several bones that enter nencesofinto the formation of the joint may be traced with ease. Thus, in front of the joint, when it is half bent, the rounded Patella, prominent patella may be perceived ; this is firmly fixed whilst the limb is kept in the same position, but is moved with great freedom when the joint is extended so as to relax Con- the muscles that are inserted into it. On each side of the theGfe-f patella is the projection of the condyle of the femur, but that on the inner side is the largest. If the fingers are passed along the sides of the patella whilst the joint is half bent, they will be conducted by the condyles of the femur to the Tubero- tuberosities of the head of the tibia, and to a slight hollow the tibia, between the bones. Behind the joint is a slight depression behind™ over ^e s^uation °f tne nam or popliteal space ; and on the sides of it are firm boundaries, formed chiefly by the tendons (ham-strings) of the flexor muscles of the leg. Dissec- Dissection. — With the position of the limb the same as before directed, the student begins the dissection with the examination of the subcutaneous fatty tissue with its nerves and vessels. Take up At first the integument is to be reflected only from the at the hollow on the front of the thigh close below Poupart's liga- th?ghUhe ment. To raise the skin from this part an incision of about four inches in length, and only skin deep, is to be made from the pubes along the inner border of the thigh: at its lower end another cut is to be directed outwards across the front of the limb to the outer aspect; and at its upper end the knife is to be carried along the line of Poupart's liga- ment as far as the crest of the innominate bone. The pieceSUPERFICIAL FASCIA. 647 T T 4 of skin included by these incisions is to be raised and turned outwards, without taking with it the subcutaneous fat. The superficial fascia forms a general investment for the Superfi- limb, and is constructed of a network of areolar tissue, with fascia, fat or adipose substance amongst the meshes. As a part of f0™ ed the common covering of the body, it will be found con- tinuous with that of the contiguous regions, so that it may be, followed inwards to the scrotum or labium, and upwards on the abdomen. Its thickness varies in different bodies, thick- ness according to the quantity of fat deposited in it; and at the varies; upper part of the thigh it is divided into two strata (super- jti? ficial and deep) by some cutaneous vessels and inguinal into two ry J . ° strata by glands. The superficial of the two layers is now apparent vessels, by the removal of the skin, but its connections will be made more evident after the following dissection. Dissection. — To reflect the superficial stratum of the To raise fascia, incisions similar to those in the skin are to be em- perficiai ployed; and the separation from the subjacent structures is to be begun at the lower part, where the large saphenous vein, and a condensed or membranous appearance on the under surface, will mark the depth of the stratum. The handle of the scalpel may be advantageously employed in raising the fascia along the middle line of the limb; but, where vessels and glands are not found, viz. along the outer and inner borders of the thigh, the separation of the super- ficial fascia into two layers cannot be made. The subcutaneous layer of this fascia decreases in thick- subcu. ness near Poupart's ligament, becoming more fibrous at the layer of same spot; and at its under aspect is a smooth and mem- fascia branous surface. It conceals the superficial vessels and the inguinal glands, and is separated by these from Poupart's ™™*d ligament, so that it is unconnected to that band as it passes with upwards to the abdomen, and is readily moved on it either p^l's upwards or downwards. ment. Dissection. — The inguinal glands and the superficial Dissec- vessels are next to be laid bare by the removal of the sur- rounding fat, but the student is to be careful not to destroy the deeper, very thin layer of the superficial fascia which is beneath them, and chiefly to the inner side of the centre of the limb. Three sets of vessels are to be found in the dissection: To see648 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. the su- one set (artery and vein) are directed inwards to the pubes, vessels, and named external pudic; another, superficial epigastric, upwards over Poupart's ligament; and the third, or the superficial circumflex iliac, appears at the outer border of the limb. The large vein in the middle line of the thigh to which branches converge, is the internal saphenous. Some ticsPha~ °^ ^e sma^ lymphatic vessels may be traced from one inguinal gland to another. arKj A small nerve, the ilio-inguinal, is to be sought on the erves' inner side of the saphenous vein, and close to the pubes ; and one of the terminal branches of the genito-crural nerve may be found a little outside the vein. The Superficial Vessels. — The small cutaneous arteries at fromThe the top of the thigh are the highest branches of the femoral ll* artery, and are furnished by that trunk as soon as it enters the thigh. They pierce the deep fascia of the limb (fascia lata), and iaphe-e are distributed in the integuments and the glands of the groin. A vein accompanies each artery, having the same name as its companion vessel, and ends in the upper part of the saphenous vein ; but the description of these veins will be given in a subsequent page, one ex- ^he external pudic artery (superior) crosses the spermatic pudic1 cord in its course inwards, and ends in the integument of artery; tjie pern-s an(j scrotum, where it anastomoses with offsets of another the internal pudic artery. Another external pudic branch the fas? (inferior) pierces the fascia lata at the inner border of the Veil join the saphe nous. cia. thigh, and ramifies also in the scrotum. In the female these branches supply the labium pudendi. super- The superficial epigastric artery passes over Poupart's gastric1?1" ligament to the lower part of the abdomen (p. 463.), and communicates with branches of the deep epigastric artery. Super- The superficial circumflex iliac artery is the smallest of iliac. the three branches; and appearing on the outer border of the thigh, near the crest of the ilium, it is distributed in the integument. inguinal The superficial inguinal glands are arranged in two lines ; two sets, one set lies across the thigh, near Poupart's ligament, and the other along the side of the saphenous vein. In the which lower or longitudinal collection the glands are larger than receive ° ° ° different in the upper, and receive the lymphatic vessels from theSUPERFICIAL VESSELS AND FASCIA. 649 surface of the lower limb; whilst the upper or transverse lvmpha- tics. set are joined by the lymphatics of the penis, and those of the lower part of the abdomen. The glands vary much in both number and size, and not unfrequently those by the side of the vein are united together. Dissection. — The deeper layer of the superficial fascia is Raise to be detached from the subjacent fascia lata, by means of stratum incisions similar to those for reflecting the subcutaneous super- stratum, except that the lower cut across the thigh is not to fascia, be made so far down. The handle of the scalpel is to be employed in the separation, and the dissector is to endeavour to avoid cutting the nerves and vessels. Internal to the saphenous vein a thin membrane can be easily raised, but external to that vessel there scarcely exists a continuous layer distinct from the fascia lata. In reflecting the stratum the margin of an aperture (saphenous) in the fascia lata will be apparent. The deeper layer of the superficial fascia is a very thin Deep membraniform stratum, which is most evident near Poupart's thTsu- ligament, and on the inner side of the saphenous vein, fasdaal About one inch below the ligament it conceals the large saphenous opening in the fascia lata, that transmits the saphenous vein, and some of the ducts of the lymphatic glands. As it stretches across the opening it is connected covers to the circumference, — internally by loose cellular mem™ nous brane, but externally by firm fibrous bands; and it is also opemng' connected with the loose sheath of the femoral vessels that appears in that aperture. The part of this stratum over the saphenous opening is perforated by many small apertures for the transmission of the ducts of the glands, and has been named cribriform fascia, from its sieve-like appearance. In and is a hernial protrusion through that opening the cribriform criori- portion is projected forwards by the gut, and forms one of fascia, the coverings. Dissection. — Now the student has observed the disposi- Dissec- tion of the superficial fascia near Poupart's ligament, he the front may proceed to examine the remainder of this subcutaneous thigh, covering. of the thigh, together with the vessels and the nerves in it. To raise the skin from the front of the thigh, a cut is to To take be carried along the centre of the limb, over the knee-joint, skm^the650 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. to rather below the tubercle of the tibia ; at its extremity a transverse incision is to be made across the front of the leg, but this is to reach farthest on the inner side. The flaps of the skin may now be reflected inwards and out- wards. and foi- The saphenous vein is first to be traced out as far as the low sa- . . . . . phenous skm is reflected, but in removing the tissue from it, the student should be careful of branches of the internal cuta- neous nerve that lie along it. Cuta- The cutaneous nerves of the front of the thigh are to be neous 0 fronYof°f sougnt *n tne *n tne flowing positions: — On the outer thigh, margin is the external cutaneous nerve; in the centre are the branches of the middle cutaneous nerve ; whilst at the inner margin lie the ramifications of the internal cutaneous nerve, — one small offset appearing near the upper part of the thigh, one or more about the middle, and one of the terminal branches (anterior) about the lower third, and on On the inner side of the knee three other cutaneous nerves the knee, are to be looked for: — One is a branch of the great saphe- nous, which is directed to the front of the patella; another is the trunk of the great saphenous nerve, which lies by the side of the vein of the same name, close to the lower part of the surface now dissected; and the third is a terminal branch (inner) of the internal cutaneous nerve, that is close behind the preceding, and communicates with it. Small cutaneous arteries accompany the nerves, super- Superficial Veins. — All the veins on the anterior and veins, inner aspects of the thigh are collected into one; and this trunk is named saphenous from the readiness with which it may be detected on the surface, internal The internal saphenous vein is the cutaneous vessel of nouhse" the inner side and front of the lower limb, and extends from thigh"1 the foot to the upper part of the thigh, where it joins the femoral vein. In the part of its course now dissected, the vessel lies somewhat behind the knee-joint inferiorly; but as it ascends to its termination, it is directed along the inner pierces side and the front of the thigh. Near Poupart's ligament it lataTo pierces the fascia lata by a special opening named saphenous, femoral and enters, as before said, the deep vein of the limb. Super- veins ficial branches join it both externally and internally; and joining near Poupart's ligament the three veins, corresponding toCUTANEOUS NERVES OF THE THIGH. 651 the arteries in that situation, viz. superficial pudic, epigastric, and circumflex iliac, terminate in it. Towards the upper may ' rr form part of the limb the veins of the inner side and the back of Jarge trunks the thigh are most frequently united into one branch, that at the enters the trunk near the aperture in the fascia lata; and the . . thigh. sometimes those on the outer side of the thigh are collected together in a similar way, so as to produce three large veins on the front of the thigh near the saphenous opening. On the side of the knee the vein generally receives a deep branch from the joint. Some unnamed cutaneous arteries are distributed to the other integuments along with the nerves; and the superficial ous ar- branch of the anastomotic artery (p. 666.) accompanies the saphenous nerve. Cutaneous Nerves. — The numerous cutaneous nerves of cuta- the thigh are derived from branches of the lumbar plexus nerves, (p. 576.)? an(i are distributed in greater abundance on the inner than the outer margin of the limb. Ilio-inguinal.— This nerve (p. 577.) is small in size, and reaches iiio.in- the surface by passing through the external abdominal ring; it guinai supplies the scrotum, and ends in the contiguous part of the thigh, is near internal to the saphenous vein. Genito-crural.—The crural branch of this nerve (p. 577.) pierces Genito. the fascia lata near Poupart's ligament, rather external to the line is™™1 of the femoral artery. After the nerve has become superficial, it [high^s communicates with the middle cutaneous nerve, and extends on farf ?,the 7 middle. the anterior aspect of the thigh as far as midway between the knee and the pelvis. Occasionally this branch is of large size, and, reaching the outer side of the limb, takes the place of branches of the external cutaneous nerve. The external cutaneous nerve (p. 577.) is distributed on the outer External aspect of the limb. At first it is contained in a prominent ridge of 0"gane" the fascia lata on the outer margin of the thigh, where it divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. The posterior branch is is spent soon subdivided into two or three others, which arch backwards, outer6 supplying the integuments of the outer part of the thigh as low as J^e thfgh the middle, and the highest offsets are crossed by branches of the jj£a^J[|J last dorsal nerve. The anterior branch extends to the lower half es. of the thigh. It appears on the surface of the fascia lata, about four inches from Poupart's ligament; and as it is continued to the knee, it distributes branches laterally, but those towards the outer and posterior surfaces are the most numerous, and-the largest in size. Near the knee it sometimes communicates with the branch of the great saphenous nerve.DISSECTION" OF THE THIGH. 652 Middle : Middle cutaneous.—The nerve for the centre of the front of the cutane- ^jgjj jg a cutaneous offset from the anterior crural, and divides into two branches that may pierce the fascia at separate spots. It is transmitted through the fascia lata about three inches from Pou- is on part's ligament, and its branches are continued to the knee, where front of communicates with the offset of the great saphenous nerve over anc[h' tne Patella. In the superficial fascia this nerve is united with the reaches rrenito-crural and internal cutaneous nerves. In some instances the knee. ° the nerve is inclined to the inner side of the knee, and is substi- tuted for a branch (anterior) of the following nerve. Internal Internal cutaneous. — Derived from the anterior crural trunk, ous like the preceding, this nerve is furnished to all the inner side of is di- the thigh. It is divided into two branches (anterior and inner), vided ° . „ . . . V J into two. that perforate the fascia m separate places. The an- a. The anterior branch becomes cutaneous in the lower third of branch the thigh in the line of the inner intermuscular septum, along or somewhat behind which it is continued to the knee. This branch extends is distributed in the integument of the lower third of the thigh at along the the inner part, as well as in that over the patella and the inner side septum. o£ ^e knee-joint, and is united with the branch of the internal ■ saphenous nerve. Occasionally this part of the nerve is found below the level of the knee-joint; and in that case it is larger than usual, and is joined by a small offset from the saphenous nerve. The b. the inner branch perforates the fascia at the inner side of the endfin knee behind the internal saphenous nerve, with which it communi- piutof cates; it furnishes offsets to the lower part of the thigh, and the the leg. Upper half of the leg on the inner surface. other Other small cutaneous branches for the supply of the inner side small i t. j twigs to of the thigh arise from either the trunk, or the two final branches pTrTof of the internal cutaneous nerve, and appear by the side of the thigh, saphenous vein, after piercing the fascia lata. One or two come into view near the upper part of the vein, and reach as far as the middle of the thigh ; and one, of larger size than the rest, appears where the others cease, and extends as far as the knee. These cutaneous offsets usually communicate, internal Internal saphenous. — A branch of the anterior crural, like the Suf" two preceding, this nerve is continued to the foot, but only a appears little part of it is now visible. The nerve pierces the fascia on the knee*and inner side of the knee, and, after communicating with the inner theTe^0 branch of the internal cutaneous, gives forwards some offsets over that joint; finally it accompanies the saphenous vein to the leg and foot. a branch One branch of the saphenous nerve {patellar) appears on the over the surface of the fascia, higher than the trunk from which it springs, patella jt .g gQon joined by the internal cutaneous nerve, and ends in many653 THE FASCIA LATA. branches over the patella; its ramifications communicate with offsets from the external and middle cutaneous, and the trunk of the saphenous nerve, and form an interlacement (plexus patellce) forms a over the joint. When this branch is small its place is taken by the w\thUS internal cutaneous nerve. others. Dissection, — Let the fat and the inguinal glands be now clean 1 removed from the surface of the fascia lata, without however See of"" destroying the cutaneous nerves. At the upper part of the SaiSa" thigh the student is to define the margin of the saphenous opening, by detaching the bands of fibrous tissue that are and de- blended with the superficial fascia. After those bands are saphe- nous broken through, the handle of the scalpel being the instru- opening, ment used, the outer semilunar margin of the saphenous opening comes into view, but the student must not expect to find it so defined as it is represented in drawings. The fascia lata is the deep aponeurosis of the thigh. It Fascia # lata sur- surrounds the limb, giving this a firm sheath, and sends in- rounds Wards septa between the different muscles. This membra- nous investment is of a bluish white colour, and very vari- , able thickness, though it is always stronger on the outer strength than on the inner aspect of the limb, in consequence of the insertion into it of the tensor vaginae femoris and gluteus maximus muscles. In fat bodies it is sometimes so slight as to be taken away with the superficial fascia. Numerous apertures exist in the fascia for the trans- Aper- mission of the cutaneous nerves and vessels, and the largest i"resm of these is near Poupart's ligament, for the passage of the internal saphenous vein. The processes, prolonged from Pro- the under surface, form septa between, and fibrous sheaths between for the several muscles. Some of these are larger than the cies. rest, and are named specially the intermuscular septa of the thigh: thus two, outer and inner, are fixed to the femur, so as to limit on the sides the extensors of the leg ; and a third intervenes between the adductors and the flexors of the W. The position of these partitions is marked on the surface by white lines. At the upper extremity of the thigh the fascia is fixed to Con- i • -, , n * i • m , nected the prominent and bony parts of the pelvis. Taking the with circumference of the limb, the student will find it connected upper^ externally with the crest of the ilium; in the middle line thish- behind with the lower end of the sacrum and the coccyx;654 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. internally with the ramus of the ischium and the os pubis; and in front with Poupart's ligament, between the pubes Differ- and the iliac crest. At the lower part of the thigh, behind enceat ■ ... . . , lower the knee-joint, it passes uninterruptedly to the leg; but in front of the articulation it is blended with an expansion from the extensor muscles, and is continued over the patella, but separated from the bone by a bursa, to be inserted into the heads of the tibia and fibula. cover Directions.—The flaps of skin that were removed from the . fascia the front of the thigh, to follow the cutaneous vessels and except , t above, nerves, are now to be replaced, and the saphenous opening is next to be learnt, saphe- The saphenous opening in the fascia lata receives its ap- opening; pellation from transmitting the saphenous vein. This aper- tion, ture is oval in form, and is situate rather to the inner side of and size, the middle line of the thigh ; it measures about half an inch in width and one inch and a half in length. Its upper ex- tremity (superior cornu) is at Poupart's ligament; and its lower extremity (inferior cornu) is distant from that struc- ture about one inch and a half, and presents a well defined margin. inner The inner margin of the opening is deficient in a firm or isnotm sharp edge, for the fascia constructing it is stretched over a sharp, subjacent muscle (pectineus), and is postc rior to the level of the femoral vessels. The outer bounding part is much stronger, and has a semilunar border, whose concavity is turned downwards and inwards : this is named from its outer is shape, falciform border or margin of the saphenous opening semi-j"1 (falciform process of Burns) ; it is superficial to the femoral lunar' vessels, and is connected by fibrous bands to their sheath, and and to the deep layer of the superficial fascia. If the outer jo|nes ° edge be traced upwards, it will be found to arch to the inner nat's ii-" side of the femoral vein, and to be blended with the base of gcment. Qjmj)erna^s ]igament (part of the insertion of Poupart's ligament) : the upper end of this border, where it is internal to the vessels, has been known as the femoral ligament. Tense- The rigidity of the margin of the saphenous opening is JhT °f much influenced by the position of the limb ; for if the finger depends be placed beneath the upper part of the falciform border, position whilst the limb is moved in different directions, the dissector limbf will perceive that this band is most unyielding when the655 poupart's ligament. limb is extended and rotated outwards, and most relaxed when the thigh is flexed and turned in the opposite direction. Through the lower part of the opening the saphenous Parts vein, and the ducts of the inguinal glands are transmitted : mitted ' & & through and "through the upper part, close to the falciform edge, a the femoral hernia would project. Sometimes terms are applied to the fascia on opposite Nomen- sides of the saphenous opening, as if there was a distinct of the structure in each spot; thus the piece on the outer side of the^top the opening is called iliac part of the fascia lata, from its at- thigh, tachment to the os ilii; whilst that on the inner side, which is fixed to the os pubis, is named the pubic part of the fascia lata. Parts concerned in Femoral Hernia. —Besides the Anato- saphenous opening, the dissector has to study the under- parts • _ * concern- mentioned parts, to obtain a knowledge or the structures ed in a ... . , femoral amongst which the hernial protrusion is situate; viz. the hernia, crural arch and Gimbernat's ligament, the crural sheath, the crural canal and the crural ring, together with a membranous partition (septum crurale) between the thigh and the ab- domen. Dissection. — To examine Poupart's ligament and a loose Dissec. sheath of membrane that surrounds the femoral vessels, the see a piece of the fascia lata that forms the falciform border of the around saphenous opening is to be reflected by the following incisions, vessels. One cut is to be begun near the edge of the falciform border, and be carried outwards parallel and close to Poupart's liga- ment for one inch and a half; another is to be directed obliquely downwards from the termination of the first, to a little below the inferior cornu of the opening. When the fascia has been turned inwards and some fat removed, the tube of membrane (crural sheath) will be brought into view as it descends beneath Poupart's ligament. With the handle of the scalpel the sheath is to be sepa- Define sheath rated carefully from the fascia lata beneath, and from the ligament in front of it: and Gimbernat's ligament on the inner side of the sheath, to which the upper end of the falci- form border is united, is to be defined. Pouparfs ligament, or the crural arch, is a firm band, de- The rived from the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of arch; the abdomen, which stretches from the front of the crest of attach- ments ;DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 656 form; the ilium to the os pubis (p. 466.). When viewed on the surface, the arch has not a straight direction between its bony attachments, as long as the fascia lata is entire, but is curved downwards towards the thigh. Its outer half is ob- lique ; but its inner half is almost horizontal, and widens as it approaches the pubes, where it is inserted into the spine, as well as into the pectineal line of that bone for about an inch, dosing f0I™n£ Gimbernat's ligament. The space beneath the hoiiow crural arch, between it and the innominate bone, is closed beneath. ' by the parts passing from the abdomen to the thigh, and is larger in the female than in the male. The outer half of the interval is filled by the fleshy psoas and iliacus muscles, to which the arch is so closely bound by fascia, as to prevent any protrusion of intestine at this spot; and the inner half of the space is occupied by the femoral vessels and their sheath. Gimber- Gimbernat's ligament, — The structure that has received gament the name of Gimbernat's ligament, is the part of the tendon is part . of the of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen that is in- insertion of Pou- serted into the pectineal line of the pubes (p. 469.). It is only part of the attachment of the crural arch to the bone; but when Poupart's ligament is in its natural position, and the structure is looked at from below, this piece of the Form, tendon appears triangular in form, with its base directed tion?" outwards. It is about one inch in length. Its apex is at nections. the spine of the pubes; whilst its base is in contact with the sheath of the femoral vessels, and is blended with the fascia lata,—the part that forms the outer margin of the saphenous opening. By one margin (anterior) it is continuous with the crural arch, and by the opposite it is fixed to the pectineal line of the pubes. In the erect position of the body the ligament is almost horizontal, and one surface is directed up- wards to the abdominal cavity, whilst the other is turned towards the thigh. On forcibly raising the crural arch, the continuation of Gimbernat's ligament with that band will plainly appear. Crural The crural or femoral sheath is a loose tube of membrane around the femoral vessels. It has the form of a funnel shape sloped unequally on the sides: the wide part or base of the tube is turned upwards; and the narrow part ceases about and con- two inches below Poupart's ligament, by blending with the nections; r ° ? J °657 CRURAL OR FEMORAL SHEATH. common cellular sheath of the blood-vessels. Its outer border is nearly straight, and is perforated by the genito- crural nerve. Its inner border is oblique, and is pierced by the lymphatics and the saphenous vein ; this part of the sheath appears in the saphenous opening, and is connected to the falciform margin and the superficial fascia. In front of the sheath and behind it is the fascia lata of the thigh. The how tube of membrane is continuous with the fascise that line the abdomen in this way ; the anterior part is prolonged beneath Poupart's ligament into the fascia transversalis, and the posterior half is continued into the fascia iliaca (p. 491.). Crossing the front of the crural sheath below the arch of Deepi Poupart's ligament, is a thickened fibrous brand, which has arch, been named the deep crural arch. This band is supposed to occasion sometimes the stricture of the subjacent intestine in a femoral hernia. A notice of it is given with the description of the fascia transversalis (p. 479.). Dissection. — The student may open the sheath by an open incision across the front, and raise the loose anterior part crural with hooks. A piece of the cellular investment of theS ed femoral vessels is to be cut out over the situation of both the artery and the vein. When this has been done two thin partitions may be defined; one is on the inner side of the vein separating it from a gland, the other is between the vein and the artery. A cellular stratum may be seen over k the upper aperture of the sheath, closing the tube towards the abdomen. The interior of the crural sheath is occupied by the Contents femoral vessels, and is divided into three compartments by sheath, two partitions. The position of those septa has been before referred to,—one being internal to the femoral vein, and the other between the two large vessels. In the outer compart- Space to r divided ment is the femoral artery, lying close to the side of the jnto^ sheath; in the middle one is the femoral vein ; and in the ParLs- inner one (crural canal) is only a lymphatic gland. The femoral vessels are surrounded by a common cellular cover- ing, which is distinct from the crural or femoral sheath now described. Crural canal. — This term is applied to the innermost The in- rr ner of space in the interior of the crural sheath. Its extent is aboutthe thrfe , , spaces is half an inch, for it reaches only from the base of Gimbernat's thfcru- J ral canal. u u6o8 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. ligament to the upper cornu of the saphenous opening. Extent, Anterior to the sheath at this part, and consequently to the around'8 space, are Poupart's ligament and the upper end of the falci- form margin of the saphenous opening; whilst behind it is the pectineus muscle, covered by fascia lata. On the inner side is Gimbernat's ligament, and on the outer side is the femoral vein. The aperture by which it communicates above with the cavity of the abdomen is named the crural ring. Through this canal or space the intestine in femoral hernia passes from the abdomen. Defini- Some writers apply the term crural canal to all the space in- term°f eluded in the sheath, and describe therefore the femoral vessels as canal1 heing in the crural canal; but the appellation crural canal is here here em- confined, as above stated, to the space in the sheath internal to the ployed. ? ■ «.' 1 vessels. Crural The crural or femoral ring is the upper opening of the nng' crural canal towards the abdominal cavity.* It is on a level Situa- * tion and wjth the base of Gimbernat's ligament, and is larger in the fjrm. . . female than in the male. It is oval in shape; and its greatest measurement is from side to side, in which direction struo it equals about half an inch. The structures that surround around, the opening, outside the crural sheath, are nearly similar to those bounding the crural canal, viz. in front the crural arch with the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female ; behind, the os pubis covered by fascia lata; on the outside the femoral vein ; and on the inside Gimber- nat's ligament. The position of the several vessels along the sides of the ring is stated at p. 492. Crural Septum crurale. — The part of the subperitoneal layer of septum, which is placed over the opening of the crural ring, has position; been named crural septum (Cloquet) from its position between the thigh and the abdomen. The situation of the how partition is now visible, but its characters are ascertained in formed. . . the dissection of the abdomen (p. 490.). Femoral Femoral Hernia.—This kind of hernia consists in a pro- hernia. . trusion ot the intestine into the thigh beneath Poupart's * Gimbernat used the name crural ring, and Mr. Lawrence proposes to call it femoral aperture. Might not the nomenclature employed be made more to resemble that used in describing inguinal hernia, by- calling this the internal crural aperture, and the saphenous opening the external crural aperture?659 FEMORAL HERNIA. u u 2 ligament. In this affection the gut descends always in the Defini- crural or femoral sheath, and commonly on the inner side of the vein, though occasionally it may be situate on the outer side of the artery. Course. — At first the intestine takes a vertical direction course; in its progress from the abdomen to the surface of the body, first ver- and passes through the crural ring, and along the crural canal as far as the saphenous opening. At this spot it next^ ^ changes its course, and is directed forwards; and should the for- . . . wards, gut protrude still farther the hernia again alters its direction and then t upwards. and ascends towards the abdomen, in consequence of the ascent being easier than the descent on the front of the thigh. The winding course of the hernia must suggest to the dissector the direction in which attempts should be made to replace the intestine in the abdominal cavity. "With the By what n •'" i • 11 i . . .n i means it view oi making the bowel retrace its course, it will be neces- is to be n . pushed sary first to press it down towards the saphenous opening, back, and afterwards backwards and upwards towards the crural canal and ring. The previous dissection will have demon- strated the necessity of raising the limb, and rotating it inwards during the manipulation to return the displaced in- testine to its cavity, in order that the margin of the saphe- nous opening, and the other tissues may be relaxed. Coverings. — As the intestine takes the course above Cover- specified it is clothed by the following structures, which it thl^ut* elongates and pushes before it: they are here enumerated from within outwards, in the order in which they are re- ceived. First is a covering of the peritoneum lining the abdomen ; next one from the crural septum across the crural perito- ring ; after this comes a stratum from the femoral sheath, cmrai unless the hernia bursts through an aperture in the side ; C£U1|*' still farther out is a layer of the cribriform fascia; and, cribri„' lastly, there is an investment of the superficial fat or fascia., f°srma> together with the skin. From without inwards the order of skin.nd the different strata will be reversed. The coverings may The co- vary, or be conjoined in different degrees according to the ml^ie condition of the hernia. In some instances, as above ex- plained, the prolongation from the femoral sheath is wanting ; and in an old hernia the covering derived from the septum crurale is usually united with that from the crural sheath, so as to form one layer, the fascia propria (Cooper). In660 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. The general, in an operation for the relief of the strangulated surgeon does not bowel, the surgeon, after dividing the subcutaneous fat, can findso I- 1 n , . , many as recognise but little ot the coverings enumerated bv ana- the ana- . . < J tomist. tomists until he meets with that of the sub-peritoneal fat or septum crurale. ftriceof ^eai °f str^cture' — The strangulation of a femoral hernia ture. mav foe situate either at the crural ring, or at the saphenous fftobe °Pen*n&- ^ the constriction is at the latter spot, it will be remov- removed by dividing upwards the firm band of the falciform margin of the saphenous opening, which arches over the hernia. If it is in the neck of the sac it is occasioned by the base of Gimbernat's ligament; and will be relieved by an incision into that structure, of a few lines in extent, with the knife directed inwards horizontally. The several vessels that may be wounded in attempting to relieve the strangu- suppo- lated intestine are enumerated at page 492. The preceding sacS statements apply to the operation requiring the hernial sac opened. ^ ^e opened for the relief of the strangulated bowel, clean Dissection. — The triangular space at the top of the thigh Scarpa's will be prepared by removing the fascia lata from the hollow !arangu" near Poupart's ligament, and cleaning the parts that then come into view. The muscular boundaries on the sides may be first dissected; then the remains of the crural sheath are to be taken away, and the femoral vessels to be followed downwards as far as the sartorius muscle. On the outer side of the vessels the divisions of the anterior crural nerve are to be sought, together with the branches of an artery (profunda) which are buried in the fat. All the cellular tissue is to be cleared out of the space; and, in removing it from beneath the femoral artery, the student is to seek for one or two small nerves to the pectineus muscle. Trian- The TRIANGULAR SPACE OF SCARPA is situate at the fpaceat upper part of the thigh, and is beneath the hollow observ- the°f able on the anterior aspect, near Poupart's ligament. It thlgh; corresponds to the axillary space in the upper limb. Com- monly its extent is equal to that of the upper third of the extent; thigh; but its length varies according to the breadth of the sartorius, and the height at which this muscle crosses bound- inwards. The base of the space is at Poupart's ligament, and the apex, at the meeting of the sartorius with the ad- ductor longus muscle. Bounding the hollow on the outer space. aries;661 FEMORAL ARTERY. side are the conjoined psoas and iliacus, for about two inches, and below these is the sartorius; on the inner side are the pectineus and adductor longus muscles, and between and behind them near the femur, is a small part of the adductor brevis. In this space are contained the femoral artery and vein, contents, and the anterior crural nerve, and some of their branches, with a considerable quantity of cellular tissue. The femoral Femoral vessels, artery runs through the centre of the hollow, and supplies some small cutaneous branches, as well as a large deep offset, the profunda: a small offset (superficial pudic) is directed ^alnt(J1eir from it to the pubes across the inner boundary. On the es- inner side of the artery is the vein which is here joined by the saphenous and profunda branches. Half an inch ex- Anterior ternal to the vessel is the large anterior crural nerve, which nerve is hidden at first between the iliacus and psoas, but after- wards becomes more superficial and divides into branches. Femoral Artery. — This vessel is a continuation of the Femoral external iliac artery of the abdomen, and retains the term femoral only for a given distance in the thigh. It reaches from the lower border of Poupart's ligament to the margin extent; of the opening in the adductor magnus muscle; and it occupies the front and the inner part of the thigh for only two-thirds of the length, for at the spot mentioned it turns backwards into the ham, and takes the name popliteal. The course, course of the vessel will be indicated, during rotation out- wards of the limb, by a line drawn to the inner side of the patella from a point midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior spine of the ilium. In the upper part of its position course the artery lies rather internal to the head of the femur, femur, and is comparatively superficial, being uncovered by Division muscle; but, in the lower part, it is placed along the inner parts*?™ side of the shaft of the femur, and is beneath the sartorius muscle. This difference in its connections allows of a division of the arterial trunk into two parts; viz. one in the upper, and one in the middle third of the thigh. The artery in the upper third of the thigh is contained in The Scarpa's triangular space, where it is enveloped by the crural pStof sheath for about two inches, and is covered only by the skin teryYs" and the superficial fascia, and by the fascia lata and some daPi?rfi" u u 3DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 662 Parts inguinal glands. At first the artery rests on the psoas it. muscle ; and it is subsequently placed over the pectineus, though at some distance from it in this position of the limb, and is separated from it by cellular tissue, and by the pro- funda vessels and the femoral vein. Its companion vein and the anterior crural nerve have the following position with Position respect to it: — the femoral vein is on the inner side and of vein r nerve cl°se to & at tne pubes, but lower down it is placed behind the artery; the anterior crural nerve is on the outer side, being distant about half an inch near Poupart's ligament, and some of the branches of the nerve approach the artery near the apex of the containing space. Branch- The branches of this part of the artery are the superficial es of this ^.-ii. part epigastric and circumflex iliac, two superficial pudic, and seen, the deep femoral branch : the cutaneous offsets have been seen (p. 648.), with the exception of the following, which is beneath the fascia lata, one ex. The external or superficial pudic artery (inferior) arises pudic, separately from, or in common with the other pudic branch beneath (superior) (p. 648.). The course of this artery is inwards fascia, over the pectineus muscle to the scrotum or the labium pudendi, according to the sex: it perforates the fascia lata at the inner border of the thigh to reach its place of destina- tion. In the integument it anastomoses with branches of the superficial perinatal artery, and the The deep femoral branch, or the profunda, is the largest da. offset of the femoral artery*, and arises from the outer part of that vessel, one inch to two inches (Quain) below Pou- Origin part's ligament. This branch is consumed in the muscles of the thigh, and its distribution will be afterwards ascer- and po- tained. In the present dissection it is seen to be placed sition in , Scarpa's over the iliacus muscle, where it gives the external cir- triangle. cumflex artery to the outer part of the thigh; and then to be directed, with a large vein, beneath the trunks of the femoral vessels to the inner side of the femur. Femoral Femoral Vein. — The principal vein of the limb, whilst first in- in the triangular space in the upper part of the thigh, has * Some anatomists apply the term common femoral to the part of the vessel above the origin of the profunda, and give the names super- ficial and deep femoral to the nearly equal parts into which it divides.663 TJPPEK PART OF THE FEMORAL VESSELS. u u 4 almost the same relative anatomy as the artery. Its position J^e «ie to the artery is not the same, however, throughout: for beneath Poupart s ligament it is on the inner side of that trunk, and on the same level, and is supported on the os pubis between the psoas and pectineus muscles; but it soon after- . . , wards winds beneath the artery, and appears on the outer side outside opposite the upper border of the adductor longus muscle. In this space the vein receives the internal saphenous and the deep femoral branches. Peculiarities in the vessels. — The deviations from the common ^u-^ condition of the vessels in the triangular space, which will here be noted, refer to a change in their position, or to the unusual origin of the chief branch of the artery. Position of the vein. — The position of the vein with respect to in the 17 A Till position the artery may be altered: for the venous trunk may be placed on of the the inner side through all the triangular space; or it may be slit or the so as to present a large vein on each side of the artery for a greater Jl1 S™ay or less extent; or one of the two veins may lie over the arterial vlded- tube. Origin of the 'profunda. — The profunda' branch, though arising Origin commonly from the femoral artery between one inch and two funda inches from Poupart's ligament, may approach nearer to the liga- f^nT ment until it arrives opposite that band, or may even go beyond, p°r"rs and be fixed to the external iliac artery (one example, Quain). [jff™^ But the branch may recede farther and farther from the ligament, inches J below, till (as in one example, Quain) it leaves the parent trunk at the distance of four inches from the commencement; so that in apply- ing a ligature to the femoral artery in the upper part of the thigh, the thread should be placed four inches below Poupart's ligament, in order that the spot chosen may be free from the disturbing influence of an occasional large offset. Dissection. — To proceed with the deep dissection, the Take the flaps of skin are to be thrown aside; and the fascia lata is to from the be cut along the middle line of the thigh and knee, and to the be reflected to each side, nearly to the same extent as the skin. Over the knee-joint the student will find the fascia united with the tendon of the extensor muscles of the leg. The limb is to be retained in the same position as in the dissection of the other parts. In raising the inner piece of the membrane the narrow Follow muscle (sartorius) that appears should be followed to its torius,r" insertion into the tibia, and care should be taken of the664 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. small nerves along its inner border, viz. : the two branches and pre- of the internal cutaneous above; the great saphenous and nerves in its branch below; and a plexus between the saphenous, with it. internal cutaneous, and obturator, at the middle of the thigh. The dissector is to avoid displacing the muscle whilst he is removing its sheath of fascia. Dissect Internal to the sartorius are some strong muscles (ad- thead- N . . ductors, ductors) that are inclined outwards: these are to be laid bare; and the student is to seek a branch of the obturator nerve, to the plexus before mentioned, beneath the more superficial muscle (adductor longus), near where this touches the sartorius. and On the outer side of the sartorius are the large extensor the ex- muscles of the leg. For the dissection of these the knee is muscles, to be bent to make tense their fibres : and the expansion, below, from their tendon to the fascia lata and the knee- joint is to be looked to. One little muscle at the upper part of the thigh, tensor of the fascia lata, is to be cleaned; and a strip of the fascia, corresponding to its width, should be left along the outer aspect of the thigh: behind this slip, the investing membrane is to be divided by one or two trans- verse cuts, and to be followed backwards to its attachment to the linea aspera of the femur. Muscles Deep parts on the front of the thigh. — The muscles front of on the front of the thigh are the sartorius, and the extensor thigh, of the leg. Many muscles are combined in the extensor, viz. the rectus, vastus externus, and vastus internus and crureus. At the top of the thigh is the small tensor of the fascia lata. vessels. A portion of the femoral vessels, viz. the lower half, lies amongst the muscles and supplies them with branches. Nerves. One large kqg&& the anterior crural, furnishes offsets to the muscles on the front of the thigh, and is to be learnt with them. i sarto- The sartorius is the longest muscle in the body, and nus' extends from the pelvis to the leg : it arches over the front of the thigh, passing from the outer to the inner side of the limb, and lies in a hollow between the extensors on the one origin; side, and the adductors on the other. It has a tendinous origin from the anterior upper spinous process of the ilium,665 SARTORIUS MUSCLE. and from the interval between this and the inferior process. Its fibres constitute a thin, riband-like muscle, which ends course ' over the in a tendon below the knee, and is inserted into the inner thigh; surface of the tibia, for about an inch below the tubercle, and three quarters of an inch from the crest of the bone. The muscle is superficial throughout, and is perforated by some cutaneous nerves and vessels. Its upper part is Connec- oblique, and forms the outer boundary of the triangular [hTfirst space that contains the femoral artery ; it rests on the iliacus, rectus, and adductor longus muscles, as well as on part; the anterior crural nerve and the femoral vessels. The of the middle part is vertical: at first it lies in a hollow between ™lxt\Q the vastus internus and the adductor muscles, this connection continuing as low as the opening for the femoral artery; but beyond that point, the sartorius lies between the vastus and the inner hamstring muscles, where it bounds the popli- teal space at the inner side. The femoral vessels and their accompanying nerves are concealed by this portion of the muscle. The lower or tendinous part lies on the internal and 0f lateral ligament of the knee-joint, superficial to the tendons part.°wer of the gracilis and semitendinosus, and separated from them by a prolongation of their synovial membrane: from its upper border there is an aponeurotic expansion that joins, over the knee, that from the extensors; and from its lower border, another that blends with the fascia of the leg. Below the tendon the great saphenous nerve appears with its artery; and piercing it, is the branch of the same nerve. Dissection, — The sartorius is to be turned aside, or cut Divide through if it is necessary, to follow the remaining part of tonus, the femoral artery. Beneath the muscle is an aponeurosis between the adductor and extensor muscles; when this IS and dis- divided the internal saphenous nerve, and a nerve to the nerves vastus internus muscle that sends an^.qf^j^fce the knee-joint, vessels, will come into view. The plexus of nerves on the inner side of the thigh may now be more completely dissected. The femoral vessels and their branches are to be nicely cleaned. Where the femoral artery passes to the back of the limb its small anastomotic branch arises; this is .to be pursued in the fibres of the vastus internus to the knee, and a branch of it is to be followed with the saphenous nerve.DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 666 Aponeu- The aponeurotic covering of the femoral vessels exists over the where these are covered by the sartorius. It is formed of artery: strong fibres, that are directed transversely between the vastus internus and the tendons of the adductor muscles, low by a" In^eri°r^7 tne membranous structure ceases at the opening borde6? *n tne a(^ductor magnus by a defined border, beneath which the saphenous nerve and its artery escape. Deep Femoral artery in the middle of the thigh.—In the middle the fe- third the femoral artery is more deeply placed than in the artery, upper third of the thigh. It is covered by the sartorius Sons60" rnusc^e and the subjacent aponeurosis, in addition to the integuments and the superficial and deep fasciae; and it lies in a hollow, bounded on the one side by the vastus internus, and on the other by the adductor longus and adductor magnus, by which it is conducted to the opening in the last Position muscle. On the outer side of the artery and close to it, is and sa- the femoral vein ; to the outer side also, is the internal Serve!"8 saphenous nerve, which is beneath the aponeurosis before noticed, but is not contained within the cellular sheath of the vessels. Branch- Branches.— Only one named branch, anastomotic, springs from this part of the artery, for the other offsets belong to the muscles. Anasto. The anastomotic branch (arter. anastomotica magna) arises which close to the opening in the adductor muscle, and splits at once into two parts, superficial and deep, divides a. The superficial offset continues with the saphenous superfi. nerve to the lower border of the sartorius, and, piercing the brafh ^asc*a *ata' rannn*es *n tne integument, b. The deep or anterior branch is concealed in the fibres of the vastus inter- nus, and descends in them, in front of the tendon of the adductor magnus, to the inner side of the knee-joint, where it anastomoses with the articular branches of the popliteal and anterior tibial arteries. A branch passes outwards from it in the substance of the vastus ; this forms an arch in front of the lower end of the femur with an offset of the external articular artery, and supplies the joint. The two pieces of the anastomotic artery may be separate at their origin, and spring from distinct parts of the parent trunk. Muscu- Muscular branches. — The branches for the supply of the larLOWER PART OF THE FEMORAL VESSELS. 667 muscles leave the outer part of the femoral artery, and be- branch- long mostly to the sartorius and the vastus internus. The femoral vein, in its connections with the parts around, Femoral and in its branches, corresponds closely to the femoral artery. Its position with respect to the artery is, as above said, ex- ternal to, and in contact with it. Peculiarities in the splitting of the artery. — Occasionally the The fe- femoral artery is split into two below the origin of the profunda, artery Four examples of this peculiarity have been met with, but, in all, divided, the trunks were blended again into one above the opening in the adductor muscle. Position of the vein. — The femoral vein may change its position The vein here, as in the upper part (p. 663.), and be found on the inner side {Usfde6 of the artery ; or it may be divided into two trunks, that lie on the j^tery; sides of its companion vessel. Size of the vein.— In some bodies this part of the femoral vein or split; is very small in size, in consequence of the popliteal coursing along small".7 the back of the thigh to enter the profunda vein, instead of accom- panying the main artery of the limb through the aperture in the adductor magnus. Dissection. — The femoral artery and vein are to be cutToex- across below the origin of the profunda, and to be thrown muscles downwards, preparatory to the deeper dissection. After o?the"* these are cut, all the cellular membrane and the small veins femur* are to be carefully removed from amongst the branches of the profunda artery and the anterior crural nerve. By this step the upper part of the vastus internus and crureus mus- cles will be prepared for learning. The TENSOR VAGLNiE FEMORIS extends Only along the Tensor upper third of the thigh, and is the smallest and the most Sorts external of the outer set of muscles. It takes origin from the fromS front of the crest of the ilium, at the outer aspect, and from pelvls' the anterior margin and the two anterior spinous processes of the same bone. Its fibres form a fleshy belly about two inches wide, and are inserted into the fascia lata about three ends in inches below, and in front of the line of the great trochanter lata, of the femur. At its origin the muscle is situate between the sartorius and the gluteus medius, and its fibres are blended with the latter. Beneath it are the ascending Parts branches of the external circumflex artery, and a branch of the superior gluteal nerve that enters it at the under aspect. A strong sheath of fascia surrounds the muscle.DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 668 Cut Dissection.—After the muscle has been learnt, the slip of the last fascia extending from it to the knee may be cut through; and the tensor of the fascia lata being detached from the muscles around, the head of the rectus muscle may be fol- lowed to the pelvis, outline The triceps extensor of the leg consists of three parts, cies on which may be described as three muscles with a common in- front of . J thigh, sertion, viz. rectus, vastus externus, and vastus internus and crureus. Or like the extensor of the arm, the muscle may be considered single below and attached by a common tendon; but divided into heads above, that are inserted into separate points of bone. Rectus The rectus femoris forms a fleshy prominence on the front of the thigh, and reaches from the pelvis to the head of origin the tibia. At its origin from the pelvis the muscle has two at the * . „ pelvis, tendinous processes or heads: — one arises from the anterior which is . double, interior spinous process of the ilium ; the other (to be after- wards seen) is fixed into a depression on the back of the ilium, close above the brim of the acetabulum. Fleshy fibres succeed to the tendon ; and they end inferiorly in another tendon, which joins those of the muscles beneath, and is and an inserted with them into the head of the tibia. The rectus into the IS larger at the middle than at the ends; and its fibres are the tibia, directed from the centre to the sides, like the feather of a The quill, giving rise to that condition called penniform: It is penni- is subcutaneous except above, where it is overlaid by the and s'u- sartorius; but it conceals branches of the external circumflex except^' artery and the anterior crural nerve, and rests on the mus- above* cular mass of the vastus and crureus. The upper tendon of the muscle reaches farthest on the anterior surface, where the sartorius lies on it ; whilst the lower tendon is most extensive on the posterior aspect, or towards the subjacent muscles. Cut the Dissection.— To see the remaining muscles, cut across the rectus> rectus near its lower end, and raise it without injuring the branches of vessels and nerves beneath it. The muscular mass on the front of the femur is to be divided into two, along the situation of some descending vessels and nerves, and The muscle external to those vessels is the vastus externus, tSeex-6 and the larger mass, internal to them, is composed of the muscles, vastus internus and crureus: the two last muscles are in-669 MUSCLES IN FRONT OF THE THIGH. separably united, but if the student wishes to make two dis- tinct parts, he may carry the scalpel through the fibres in a line with the inner border of the patella. The vastus externus is one of the parts of the strong vastus externus extensor muscle of the leg, and its attachment to the femur is very narrow in comparison with its size and thickness. It has a lengthened origin externally (beginning above) from the root of the neck of the femur ; from the front and origin; the outer surface of the root of the great trochanter; from the line connecting the trochanter with the linea aspera ; from the outer margin of the linea aspera ; from two-thirds of the line extending downwards to the outer condyle ; and, lastly, from the external intermuscular septum. Inferiorly the fibres of the muscle end in an aponeurosis ; and this but is blends with the tendons of the rectus and vastus internus to below, form a common tendon. The muscle is pointed at the upper sertion!" part, but enlarged below, where it produces the prominence on the outer side of the thigh. Its cutaneous surface IS Parts in aponeurotic at the upper part, and is covered by the rectus SThe and tensor vaginas femoris muscles ; but the deep surface surfaces- rests on the vastus and crureus, and on branches of the ex- ternal circumflex artery and the anterior crural nerve. The vastus internus and crureus are inseparably united, vastus and will be here described as one muscle. The fleshy maSS and cru- arises from the anterior and lateral surfaces of the femur,reus' One except at the ends, and its limits may be thus indicated : — mass on 1 ' J the front It reaches upwards as far as the anterior intertrochanteric ?f tne A femur. line and the trochanter ; downwards, to about two inches Its ori_ from the articular end of the femur ; outwards, to the vastus sm; externus ; and inwards, to the internal margin of the linea aspera as well as the lines continued from it towards the ends of the bone, viz. towards the small trochanter in one direction, and the inner condyle of the femur in the opposite direction. At the lower end of the muscle the fibres termi- insertion nate in a cutaneous aponeurosis that blends in the common common tendon of insertion. The upper part of the muscular mass tendon* . . Upper is buried beneath the sartorius and rectus muscles ; but the Part i« deep, lower part is superficial, and projects more than the vastus bQut the externus at the opposite side of the thigh. The adductor super muscles are almost inseparably joined with the vastus along their attachment to the linea aspera.DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 670 Lay bare Dissection.—The common tendon of the vasti and rectus mon°m" can be demonstrated, when the expansion from it over the of the knee-joint is divided along the middle of the patella to the soJs.n" head of the tibia. By reflecting inwards and outwards that thin prolongation the tendon will be laid bare. A strong transverse band will be likewise seen on each side of the patella ; the outer of the two is the strongest. Tendon The tendon of the extensor muscles'of the leg is common exten- as before said, to the rectus, the vastus externus, and the sors; . . _ _. . . » m /% united vastus internus and crureus. Its position is in tront of the knee-joint, to which it serves the office of an anterior attach- ligament. Wide above where the muscular fibres terminate, ments; ° it narrows as it descends over the joint, and is inserted in- feriorly into the prominence of the tubercle of the tibia and bursa the bone below it for an inch. Close to its attachment to beneath. ^e tibia a synovial bursa is beneath it; and in its fibres the patella is situate, like a sesamoid bone in other situations. Expan- (See Ligament of the Patella.) From the upper part of the from tendon an aponeurotic expansion is derived : this prolonga- tion, which is strongest on the inner side, is united,with the fascia lata and the other tendinous offsets to form a capsule around the joint, and is fixed below to the heads of the tibia and fibula. small Subcrureus muscle,—Beneath the united vastus and cru- reus m* reus, near the knee-joint, is a thin subcrural band of pale muscle, £kreg> ji is fout a part of the muscle on the front of the femur, which is separated from the rest of the fibres by a ends on cellular layer. Attached therefore to the front of the femur of the0 in its lower fourth, it ends in aponeurotic fibres on the outer iomt" surface of the synovial sac of the knee-joint, inter- Intermuscular septa.— The processes of the fascia lata s^epta?1^ that limit laterally the extensor muscles of the leg, are thus are two: named, and are fixed to the linea aspera, and the lines lead- ing from it to the condyles of the femur, the outer The external septum is the strongest, and reaches from strong- the outer condyle of the femur to the insertion of the gluteus est; maximus. It is situate between the vastus externus and the short head of the biceps, to which it gives origin ; and is perforated near the outer condyle by the upper external ar- the inner ticular vessels. The inner partition is very thin along the tinctd.ls" side of the vastus internus ; and, between the inner condyle671 ANTERIOR CURAL NERVE. and the linea aspera, its place is supplied by the strong ten- don of the adductor magnus. The internal articular vessels are transmitted through it to the front of the knee-joint. The external circumflex artery is the chief vessel for the ffigg supply of the muscles of the front of the thigh. It arises muscles rr J ) ° on the from the outer side of the profunda (deep femoral) artery, £°ntof and is directed horizontally outwards through the divisions thish- of the anterior crural nerve, and beneath the sartorius and rectus muscles, to the under surface of the vastus externus, where it ends in branches. Offsets are given from this Jts . ° branches artery to the rectus and the sartorius ; and its terminal re- branches consist of an ascending, a transverse, and a de- scending set. a. The ascending branches are about three in number, an as- " g t cending and are directed beneath the tensor vaginae femoris to the set, back of the ilium, where they anastomose with the gluteal artery. b. The transverse or middle set, the least numerous and a trans- verse, the smallest in size, perforate the vastus externus, and anas- tomose on the back of the thigh with the sciatic and per- forating arteries. c. The descending branches are the largest, and are dis- and a descend tributed to the vasti muscles. One considerable offset enters ing set. the vastus externus, and reaching the knee, anastomoses on it with the external articular arteries. Peculiarities in the origin of this artery are very frequent. Thus Varie- ties in the the vessel may arise as one trunk from the superficial instead of the deep femoral artery. Or it may be represented by two pieces, which may spring from either of the two femoral trunks: or these branch- may be derived from both trunks — one piece being obtained from each: this last arrangement is the most frequently found. The anterior crural nerve is derived from the lumbar Nerve of . ' the front plexus (p. 578.), and supplies the muscles and the integument of toe of the front of the thigh, and the integument of the inner side of the leg. Soon after the trunk of the nerve leaves isdi- the abdomen it is flattened, and is divided into a superficial or cutaneous, and a deep or muscular part. A. The superficial part of the nerve ends in these three From its branches : the internal and the middle cutaneous of the thigh, cSepart and the great saphenous. The middle cutaneous nerve perforates the fascia lata, middleDISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 672 cutane- sometimes also the sartorius, about three inches below Pou- ous part's ligament, and extends on the surface of the thigh to the knee. Its cutaneous distribution is described at page 652. internal The internal cutaneous nerve sends two or more small cutane- ous; twigs through the fascia lata to the integument of the upper third of the thigh, and then divides in front of the femoral artery, or on the inner side, into the two following branches, anterior and inner.* Sometimes these branches, in which the which nerve ordinarily ends, arise from the anterior crural trunk at separate spots. anterior ^Q anterior branch is directed to the inner side of the knee- and joint, As far as the middle of the thigh it lies over the sartorius, but it then pierces the fascia lata, and ramifies in the integument as before said (p. 652.). branch inner branch is distributed in the integument of the inner side of the leg, just below the knee, but it remains beneath the fascia lata as far as the knee (p. 652.). Whilst underneath the fascia the nerve lies along the inner border of the sartorius, and joins in a plexus, about the middle of the thigh, with offsets of the obturator and internal saphenous nerves. When this branch is small it ends in the plexus just mentioned, and in twigs to the inner part of the thigh, instead of being continued onwards to the leg. internal The internal saphenous nerve is the largest of the three superficial branches ; it becomes cutaneous on the inner side of the knee, and accompanies the vein of the same name to the foot (p. 652.). In the thigh the nerve takes the course of the deep blood-vessels: thus it approaches the femoral artery, where this is concealed by the sartorius, and is .con- tinued along the outer side of that vessel, beneath the apo- neurosis covering the same, as far as the opening in the adductor magnus muscle. At that spot the nerve passes becomes from beneath the aponeurosis, and is continued under the cutane- . n _ , ousat sartorius muscle to the upper part ot the leg, to become ' cutaneous as before said. It supplies two cutaneous offsets whilst it is contained in the thigh beneath the fascia, has a One of these offsets (communicating branch) arises about the nicating middle of the thigh, and crosses inwards, beneath the sartorius, to * This is the arrangement that is most commonly met with. — See foot note to the Second Edition, p. 624. nous nerveBRANCHES OF THE CRURAL NERVE. 673 join the internal cutaneous and the obturator in the plexus: this branch is sometimes absent. The other branch to the front of the patella springs from the nerve near the knee-joint, and perforating jjjjdg^ the sartorius muscle and the fascia lata, ends in the integument offset, over the knee (p. 652.). B. The deep or muscular part of the anterior crural nerve From the deep gives branches to all the muscles of the front of the thigh, part except the tensor vaginas femoris; and supplies also an offset to one of the adductor muscles, viz. the pectineus. Two slender nerves cross beneath the femoral artery, and branch- J 7 es to enter the anterior surface of the pectineus. pecti- ■* % % neus, Branches to the sartorius are furnished by the middle or sarto. by the internal cutaneous nerve, whilst it is in contact with rms' that muscle. A nerve enters the under surface of the rectus muscle at rectus, the upper part, and divides into branches as it is about to penetrate the fibres. The nerve to the vastus externus divides into two or more vastus branches as it enters the muscle. From one of these an nus and articular filament is continued downwards to the knee-joint, joint, which it enters on the anterior aspect. The nerve to the vastus internus is nearly as large in size and ^ ° vastus as the internal saphenous, in common with which it often internus. arises. To the upper part of the muscle it furnishes one or more branches, and is then continued beneath the aponeurosis covering the femoral vessels as far as the centre of the thigh, where it ends in offsets to the muscle and the knee-joint. The articular branch is prolonged to the inner side of the knee- i.ts ar~ joint.on or in the vastus, and on the tendon of the adductor mag- branch nus, and is distributed over the synovial membrane of the front of the articulation : this small nerve accompanies the deep branch of the anastomotic artery. A branch of nerve to the tensor vagince femoris is de- Nerve of rived from the superior gluteal (p. 687.), and enters the vagina?, under surface of the muscle. In the fibres it extends nearly to the lower end. Directions.—After the examination of the muscles of the Take front of the thigh with the vessels and nerves that are fur- adduc- nished to them, the student is next to learn the adductor muscles and their vessels and nerves. Dissection. — To prepare the muscles, the cellular tissue is Dissec- X X674 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. tion of to be taken from them, and the superficial adductors are to muscles, be separated one from another. Let the student be careful of the branches of the obturator nerve in connection with the muscles, viz. those offsets entering the muscular fibres, and the plexus on the inner side of the thigh. Lastly, should any cellular tissue and veins be left with the pro- funda and its branches, the whole must be cleared away. DEEP PARTS ON THE INNER SIDE OF THE THIGH. The ad- The muscles in this position are the three adductors, ductor A muscles longus, brevis, and magnus, with the gracilis and the pec- tineus; these have the under-mentioned position with respect and their to one another. Internal to all and the longest, is the gra- ' cilis. Superficial to the others, are the pectineus and the adductor longus; and beneath those two are the short ad- ductor and the adductor magnus. Vessels. In connection with these muscles, and supplying them, are the profunda artery (of the femoral) and its branches, with the accompanying vein. Nerve. The obturator nerve lies amongst the adductor muscles, and furnishes branches to them. Gracilis The Gracilis reaches from the pelvis to the tibia, and is fleshy and riband-like above, but tendinous below. The takes muscle arises by an aponeurosis, two to three inches in from the depth, from the lower half of the body and all the descending pelvls» ramus of the os pubis close to the inner margin. Inferiorly serted it is inserted by a flat tendon, about half an inch wide, into tibia. the inner surface of the tibia, beneath the sartorius. The muscle is superficial throughout. At the upper part of the thigh it is flattened against the adductor magnus, so as to have its borders directed forwards and backwards; but in Position the lower third it intervenes between the sartorius and muscles, semi-membranosus muscles, and forms part of the inner boundary of the popliteal space. Its tendon, near the inser- tion, is above that of the semi-tendinosus, though on the same level, and both lie over the internal lateral ligament; and an expansion is continued from it to the fascia of the leg, as in the tendon of the sartorius. A bursa separates it from the ligament of the joint, and projects above it to the sartorius tendon.675 ADDUCTOR MUSCLES. x x 2 The pectineus is the highest of the muscles directed from Pecti- the pelvis to the inner side of the femur. It has a fleshy origin from the crest on the os pubis between the spine and °^j=in the pectineal eminence, and from the triangular surface of Pubes> bone in front of that liiie: and it is inserted inferiorly by a inserted ^ * into tendon, about two inches in width, into the back of the femur, small trochanter, and the upper half of the line which ex- tends from it to the linea aspera. The muscle is twisted, Muscle so that the surfaces which are directed forwards and back- twisted. wards near the pelvis, are turned inwards and outwards at the femur. The pectineus lies between the psoas and the parts on adductor longus ; and the internal circumflex vessels pass the sldei" between its outer border and the former muscle. One sur- and sur- faces. face is in contact with the fascia lata; and the opposite touches the obturator muscle and nerve, and the adductor brevis. The adductor longus lies below the pectineus, and is Adduc- triangular in form, with the apex at the pelvis and the base gus ex- at the femur. It arises by a narrow tendon from the body from of the os pubis near the angle of union of the crest and the femur.10 symphysis, and is inserted along the middle third of the shaft of the femur into the inner margin of the.linea aspera. This muscle is situate between the gracilis and the pectineus, its con- and forms part of the inner boundary of the triangular space with °ns containing the femoral vessels. Its anterior surface is a^dScles covered near the femur by the femoral vessels and the sar- vessels* torius; and the posterior rests on the other two adductors, on part of the obturator nerve, and on the deep femoral arteryo Aponeurotic bands connect the tendon of the muscle at its insertion with the tendons of the adductor magnus and vastus internus. Dissection. — Some of the deeper muscles, with the obtu- Dissec- rator nerve and the profunda vessels, will be arrived at by tlon oi reflecting the two last muscles. On cutting through the pectineus near the pubes, and obtura- throwing it down, the dissector may occasionally find the nerve small accessory nerve of the obturator that turns beneath its outer border ; if this is present, its branches to the hip- joint and the obturator nerve are to be traced out. The adductor longus is then to be divided near its origin, and raised with care, so as not to destroy the branches of the676 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. obturator nerve beneath; its tendon is also to be detached from that of the adductor magnus to see the branches of the and ad- profunda artery. Now, the adductor brevis will be laid bretil bare, with a part of the obturator nerve crossing over it to enter the plexus at the inner side of the thigh, and with a deeper part of the same nerve beneath it; the muscle should be separated from the subjacent adductor magnus, where the Artieu- lower branch of the nerve and an artery issue. In this last to knee- step of the dissection the student should seek a small articular joint. forancn 0f tne obturator nerve, that descends on and in the fibres of the adductor magnus to the knee-joint. Acces- The accessory obturator nerve* (Schmidt) is derived from turator" the trunk of the obturator near the lumbar plexus (p. 578.), nerve and passes from the abdomen over the brim of the pelvis. In the thigh this branch turns beneath the pectineus and is often joins the superficial part of the obturator nerve: at the same absent. . t SUpp]_jes an 0ffset to the under surface of the pectineus, and another to the hip-joint with the articular artery. When the nerve is small, one or more of these offsets are wanting. Adduc- The adductor brevis has a thin fleshy and aponeurotic brevis attachment to the front of the os pubis. External in position at the to the gracilis, with which it is united, the muscle arises from orlgin the front of the symphysis and the ramus of the pubes, reaching upwards to the adductor longus, but not quite so low as the and wide muscle with which it is conjoined. It is inserted behind the fnser! pectineus into all the line leading from the linea aspera ^lont* . towards the small trochanter. In front of the muscle are front, the pectineus and the adductor longus ; but it is gradually uncovered by the latter below, and the contiguous borders of the two are side by side at their insertion into the femur: on this aspect, too, are the superficial piece of the obturator behind, nerve, and the profunda artery. Behind the muscle is the adductor magnus, with the deep piece of the obturator nerve, and at In contact with the upper border is the obturator externus, upper border, and the internal circumflex artery passes between the two. * This small nerve is often absent; it was found only four or five times in nine or ten bodies that were examined by its discoverer. The name given to it by Schmidt refers to this irregularity, viz. nerv. ad obturatorem accessorius inconstans.— Commentarius de Nervis Lumbalibus.OBTURATOR NERVE. 677 The obturator nerve is a branch of the lumbar plexus obtura- (p. 578.), and supplies the adductor muscles of the thigh, as nerve well as the hip and knee-joints. The nerve issues from the pelvis through the aperture in the upper part of the thyroid foramen; and it divides in that opening into two parts, is divi- which are named superficial and deep, from their position two: with respect to the adductor brevis muscle. The anterior or superficial part of the nerve joins the the^u."1 plexus of the internal cutaneous and saphenous nerves at the part inner aspect of the thigh (p. 672.). The nerve is directed over the adductor brevis, but beneath the pectineus and the adductor longus. At the lower border of the last muscle it joins furnishes an offset to join in the interlacement of the nerves, in the but the remainder of it is continued to the femoral artery, ends 'on on which it is distributed. In addition to the branches be- artery!1 fore mentioned, the nerve receives (sometimes) the commu- nicating twig from its accessory branch, and supplies the Branch- hip-joint, and some of the surrounding muscles. Branches.—Near the pelvis or in the aperture of exit, to trip, this division of the nerve sends outwards an articular twig to the hip-joint, with the artery to the same part. Muscular Muscu- branches are furnished to the adductor longus, the adductor some ad- t . , , .,. ductors. brevis, and the gracilis. Unusual condition of the nerve. — In some bodies this superficial This division of the nerve is of large size, and extends beyond the plexus be^arger in the middle of the thigh. In such instances the nerve joins freely in the plexus, and gives cutaneous offsets to the integument and ex- of the thigh ; but is afterwards continued along the inner border dinner of the sartorious to the inner side of the knee, where it perforates ^ ot the fascia to end in the integument: it has, in fact, a position and knee. distribution similar to that of the inner branch of the internal cutaneous nerve (p. 672.), whose place it takes. The posterior or deep part of the obturator, nerve pierces Deep the fibres of the external obturator muscle, and is continued the1 °f beneath the adductor brevis to be distributed chiefly in the nerve adductor magnus. Offsets are given from it to the contigu- ous muscles, and one to supply the knee-joint. Branches. — Muscular branches enter the obturator ex- ends in ternus as the nerve pierces it; others belong to the large, magnus, and sometimes also to the short adductor. A slender arti- cular branch enters the fibres of the adductor magnus and gives ° branch x x 3DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 678 to knee- towards the lower part, and passes through them, near the joint. i lmea aspera, to reach the popliteal artery, by which it is conducted to the back of the knee-joint: its termination must be seen in the dissection of the popliteal space. Dissect Dissection. — To prepare the profunda artery and its funda. branches, supposing the veins and the cellular membrane removed, it will be requisite to follow backwards the internal circumflex artery above the upper border of the adductor brevis, and to trace the perforating branches through the tendons of the adductors near the femur. Pro- The profunda (deep femoral) is the chief muscular artery artery, of the thigh, and arises from the femoral trunk about one origin, incn an^ a na^ below Poupart's ligament (p. 662.). At its course, origin the vessel is placed on the outer side of the parent trunk. It is then directed inwards beneath the femoral vessels to the inner side of the femur. Again changing the direction of its course, it runs parallel to the femoral artery, but deeper in position, to the lower third of the thigh, where and it ends in a small branch that pierces the adductor magnus. ending. ^here |ne vessel lies in the triangular space of the thigh Parts (near its origin) it rests on the iliacus muscle, but on the aiound" inner side of the femur it is placed over the adductor brevis, and from that spot to its termination, between the adductors longus and magnus. Branch- Its branches are numerous to the surrounding muscles muscles, and the bone, and maintain free anastomoses with other Thigh; vessels supplied to the upper part of the thigh, as well as Ireeiy.1 with those of the leg. It is through these communications that the blood finds its way to the lower part of the limb when the tube of the chief artery is obliterated either above or below the origin of the profunda. The branches to the adductor muscles are unnamed. The named branches are The these:—external circumflex to the extensor muscles of the "ranch- leg; internal circumflex round the inner side of the femur to esare— ^ ^ thigh; and perforating arteries through the adductors to the same locality, external The external circumflex artery has been described in the dissec- flexT1" tion of the muscles of the front of the thi&h (P- 671 *)• internal The internal circumflex branch arises from the inner and posterior flex"m" Part °^ ^e Pr°fun(la> and turns backwards between the psoas and pectineus, above the border of the adductor brevis, along the sidePROFUNDA VESSELS. 679 x x 4 of the tendon of the external obturator muscle. Having reached ends on the back of the thigh, it ends in two branches, which will be seen thigh?f in the dissection of the buttock. It supplies the under-mentioned branches to the inner side of the thigh: — An articular artery supplies enters the hip-joint through the notch in the acetabulum. At the and border of the adductor/ brevis two muscular branches arise : one muscles, ascends to the obturator and the superficial adductor muscles; the other, which is larger, descends beneath the adductor brevis, and ends in this and the largest adductor. Peculiarities in origin. — The origin of the internal circumflex is Origin very variable. In one body it may be from the femoral artery above the profunda; in another from the external iliac artery, or its branches — the epigastric and circumflex iliac. The perforating tranches are usually three in number, and pierce Three the tendons of some of the adductor muscles close to the linea bating aspera of the femur. The first is opposite the lower border of the es jn°h" pectineus, and perforates the short and large adductors. The second second branch arises lower down, and passes through the same nutri- muscles as the preceding : from it a nutritious artery is supplied to artery, the femur. The third artery springs from the deep femoral trunk below the adductor brevis, and is transmitted through the adductor magnus. The terminal branch of the profunda (fourth perforating) and the pierces the adductor magnus. These several branches supply the of pro- muscles on the back and the outer part of the thigh ; and anasto- aUfourth, mose above with branches of the internal iliac, and below with those of the popliteal artery. The profunda vein results from the union of the different Pro. branches corresponding to those of its companion artery, vein. It closely accompanies the artery of the same name, to which it is superficial, being between this and the femoral vessels. Sometimes the vein is suddenly "enlarged at the upper part is some- by the union of a large trunk from the popliteal vein, which joined is directed upwards behind the adductor magnus, and then teaiP.°ph pierces this muscle. Dissection. — To bring into view the remaining muscles, Cut viz. the adductor magnus, the obturator externus, and the adductor insertion of the psoas and iliacus, the adductor brevis is to be cut through, and the cellular membrane to be removed from each. After the adductor magnus has been learnt, it will be needful to detach a few of the upper fibres to examine the obturator externus. The adductor magnus is narrow at the pelvis, and wide Adduc- at the femur : triangular in form, the base is directed up- n°us™ag680 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. wards, whilst one side is attached to the femur and the other is free at the inner part of the thigh, origin is The muscle takes its origin from the part of the innomi- nate bone that corresponds to the subpubic arch, extending from the lower border of the symphysis pubis to the lower part of the tuberosity of the ischium. The fibres are directed with different degrees of obliquity, to their attachment to the fibres femur. Thus the upper fibres, from the rami of the pubes and to their ischium, diverge from their origin, and construct almost a dis- til" tinct part: they are horizontal above, but become more and more oblique below, and are inserted (from above down) into the linea quadrati and the line continuede from the great tro- some chanter to the linea aspera, into all the linea aspera, and into horizon- a smaU Part °f the line leading from that crest of bone to tal' the inner condyle of the femur. Whilst the remaining others fibres from the tuberosity of the ischium are vertical in vertical, directi0n, and end in a tendon at about the lower third of the thigh; this tendon is inserted into the inner condyle of the femur, and is connected by a fibrous expansion to the line leading upwards from that point of the bone to the linea aspera. and form The muscle consists of the two parts above described, different which differ in their characters. The upper one, thin and parts, fleghy^ forms a septum between the other adductors and the muscles on the back of the thigh; but the inner or lower piece, partly fleshy and partly tendinous, constitutes the Connec- inner thick margin of the muscle. On the anterior surface th°enan- are the other two adductor muscles and the pectineus, with and°r the obturator nerve and the profunda artery. The posterior surface? surface is in connection with the hamstring muscles and the upper great sciatic nerve. In contact with the upper border are fower the obturator externus and the quadratus femoris, with the borders; internaj circumflex artery; and along the lower or inner border are the gracilis and the sartorius. At its attachment fnSder-S to tne femur tne niuscle is closely united with the other tion- adductors, particularly the adductor longus, and is there pierced by apertures for the passage of the femoral and perforating arteries. Opening The opening in the adductor for the transmission of the vessels; femoral vessels into the popliteal space is tendinous on the anterior, but fleshy at the posterior aspect. It is situate at681 OBTURATOR MUSCLE AND VESSELS. the point of junction of the middle with the lower third of the thigh, and is larger than is necessary for the passage of the vessels. On the outside it is bounded by the vastus bounda- internus, but on the inside, by the tendon of the adductor nes* magnus, with some fibres added from that of the long adductor. The psoas and iliacus arise separately in the abdomen pSOas (p. 572.), but are united in the thigh. The conjoined crural acusln portion of these muscles comes beneath Poupart's ligament, thfgh. and descends to be inserted by a tendon into the back of inser- the small trochanter of the femur, as well as by fleshy fibres femur.to into a special surface of the bone in front of and below that eminence. Beneath the ligament the muscles occupy the Parts interval between the ilio-pectineal eminence and the anterior around- superior spinous process of the ilium. On the front of the psoas is the femoral artery, and between the two muscles lies the anterior crural nerve; whilst the fleshy mass covers the capsule of the hip-joint and an intervening bursa. The pectineus and the internal circumflex artery are contiguous to the inner border; and the sartorius and vastus internus, to the outer edge of the muscles. The obturator externus is of a conical form, with the obtura- base at the pelvis and the apex at the femur. The fibres of ternus"; the muscle take origin from the outer surface of the obturator origin, membrane for the anterior two-thirds; and from the bone bounding internally the foramen of the same name, though unequally, for opposite the symphysis pubis the attachment is an inch wide, but lower down only half that width. From that spot the fibres are directed obliquely outwards and backwards to be inserted by a tendon into the pit at the root inser- of the great trochanter. This muscle is concealed by the ^ ad pectineus, adductor brevis, and adductor magnus; it is ^;°r*t pierced by part of the obturator nerve, and covers the obtu- rator membrane and artery. As it courses backwards it is in contact with the inner, and the lower part of the hip- and it joint. The insertion of the muscle will be seen in the dis- hip-hes section of the buttock. joint- Dissection.—By detaching the obturator muscle in part Detach from the pelvis, the branches of the artery and nerve of the tor.ura" same name will be seen amongst its fibres. The obturator artery is a branch of the internal iliac in obtura-682 DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. tor ar- the pelvis (p. 602.), and enters the thigh through the upper tery part of the thyroid foramen; whilst in its aperture the divides artery divides into two parts, that inosculate, and form a into two, J r 7 7 circle around the obturator membrane beneath the muscle, upper The upper branch extends along the inner half of the lower membrane, and anastomoses inferiorly with the other. The branch; lower perforates the membrane beneath the upper branch, and turns downwards to form a circle by uniting with the tlilesar Prece(^ng: tn^s supplies an articular twig to the hip-joint. ticuiar Offsets of the obturator artery are furnished to the twig. J muscle that covers it; and some small twigs extend even to Muscu- ° iar- the upper part of the adductors. Branch- Branches of nerve to the muscle come from the deep divi- es of the r nerve. si0n of the obturator trunk, and perforate the membrane with the lower branch of the artery. Section II. THE BUTTOCK, OR THE GLUTEAL REGION. Position Position.—During the dissection of the back of the thigh Jbody. the body is placed with the face down; and the pelvis is to be raised by blocks until the lower limbs hang almost verti- cally over the end of the dissecting table. Direc- Directions.—Now the body is turned, the student can better recognise the points of bone that mark, posteriorly, the limit between the thigh and the abdomen (p. 645.). Both this section and the following one are to be gone through in the time appointed for the body to lie in its present position. Take up Dissection.— The integument is to be raised from the the skm. j^^k means of these incisions : — One is to be made along the crest of the ilium, and to be continued in the middle line of the sacrum to the tip of the coccyx ; another is to be begun where the first terminates, and to be carried outwards and downwards on the thigh till it is about six inches below the great trochanter. The flap of skin thus marked out above and below is to be thrown down, cutane- Several of the cutaneous nerves of this region will be nerves found in the fat, or beneath it, along the line of the crest ofCUTANEOUS NERVES OF THE BUTTOCK. 683 the ilium. Beginning in front, the student will first meet i ! \ found. with branches of the external cutaneous rather below the wbh°ere crest. Crossing the crest, near its front, is an offset of the last dorsal nerve, and, farther back, another from the ilio- hypogastric nerve ; whilst in a line with the outer border of the erector spinse are two or three branches of the lumbar nerves. By the side of the sacrum and coccyx are two or three offsets of the sacral nerves. The remaining cutaneous nerves are derived from the other small sciatic, and must be sought, beneath the fat, along the small80 line of the lower incision, where they come from underneath SLlatlc* the gluteus maximus ; some turn upwards over that muscle, and others are directed down to the thigh. Cutaneous Nerves. — The nerves distributed in the in- sources tegument of the buttock are small but numerous, and are cutane- derived from the spinal nerves (posterior divisions), from the nerves, branches of the lumbar and sacral plexuses, and from the last dorsal nerve. Branches from the spinal nerves.—The branches from the posterior From divisions of the lumbar nerves are two or three in number, and lumbar cross the crest of the ilium at the place of attachment of the erector spina? : they ramify in the integument covering the gluteus muscle, and some branches may be traced nearly to the trochanter major. The branches of the sacral nerves perforate the gluteus maximus and near its origin, and are then directed outwards for a short distance nerves, in the integument over it. These offsets are usually three in number; the largest is opposite the lower end of the sacrum, another is near the crest of the ilium, and the third is between the other two. Nerves from the lumbar plexus. — Parts of two nerves from the From lumbar plexus, viz. ilio-hypogastric and external cutaneous, are spent in the integument of this region. The iliac branch of the through ilio-hypogastric nerve crosses the crest of the ilium in front of the p0°'a^" branches from the lumbar nerves, and extends only a short distance tric> and below the crest: this branch is very variable in size, or it may be wanting. Offsets of the external cutaneous nerve of the thigh bend external backwards to the integument above the great trochanter, and cross oul!"6" the divisions of the branch of the last dorsal nerve. Nerves from the sacral plexus. — Only one nerve of this plexus, From the small sciatic, sends superficial branches to the buttock. Its piejjJs, cutaneous offsets appear along the lower border of the gluteus through maximus : two or three ascend round the edge of the muscle, and sma11684 DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. are lost in the integument over the lower part; the remaining branches descend to the thigh, and will be afterwards noticed on it. From The last dorsal nerve supplies the buttock by means of its lateral dorsal cutaneous branch (p. 462.). This offset perforates the muscles of nerve. ^Q ai3(jomen? an(j crosses the anterior part of the crest of the ilium to be distributed over the fore part of the gluteal region, as low as the great trochanter, clean Dissection.—In the dissection of this region, the thin and gluteus . ° maxi- unimportant deep fascia may be disregarded, in order that the great gluteal muscle, which is the most difficult in the body to make clean, may be well displayed. Supposing the student desirous to lay bare the muscle at once, let him turn aside the cutaneous nerves, and draw away and rotate in- Mode of wards the limb, to make tense the muscular fibres. Having proceed through the fat and fascia down to the muscle, let him carry the scalpel along one fibre at a time in the direction of a line from the sacrum to the femur, until all the coarse fasciculi are cleaned. If it is the right limb, the dissection may be begun at the upper border; but if the left, at the lower margin of the muscle. Fascia The fascia of the buttock is a prolongation of that enve- buttock loping the thigh, and is fixed to the crest of the ilium, and andun- the sacrum and the coccyx. It is much thicker in front of nTipor - j.|jan on ^e gluteus maximus, and gives attachment ante- riorly to the gluteus medius which it covers. At the edge of the gluteus maximus the fascia is slit to encase this muscle. Gluteus The gluteus maximus is the most superficial muscle of mus!" the buttock, and reaches from the pelvis to the upper part of the femur. Its origin from the pelvis is partly osseous and Origin partly aponeurotic: — thus it is attached superiorly to the from innominate bone, viz. to the posterior fourth of the crest of P6lV1S' the ilium, and to a special impression on the bone below the crest; inferiorly it is connected with the back of the last piece of the sacrum, with the side of the coccyx, and with the great sacro-sciatic ligament; and between those osseous at- tachments it is fixed into the aponeurosis covering the mul- tifidus spinas muscle. From this origin the fibres are di- inserted rected outwards to their insertion:—the upper two-thirds, into the with a few of the lowest fibres end in the fascia lata of the emur* outer part of the thigh; and the remainder are fixed intoGLUTEUS MAXIMUS. 685 the femur in the lower part (three inches) of the line lead- ing from the linea aspera to the great trochanter. The glu- teus forms the prominence of the buttock, and resembles the deltoid in its situation and in the coarseness of its texture. Its cutaneous surface is covered by the common investing Connec- J ° tions of fascial of the limb, and the superficial nerves; the parts in ^egUr" contact with the undej* surface will be seen when the muscle is cut through. The upper border overlays the gluteus ^sbor" medius ; and the lower border, which is longer and thicker than the upper, forms the fold of the nates and bounds pos- teriorly the perinaeal space. Beneath the lower border the hamstring muscles and the sciatic vessels and nerve are placed. Dissection. — The gluteus maximus is to be cut across Divide to the near the pelvis but external to the sacral nerves perforating gluteus r . ... maxi- it, and, without injuring the subjacent sacro-sciatic ligament, mus. to which the lower fibres are closely joined. The depth of the muscle will be ascertained by the fascia beneath it, and by some vessels. When this intermuscular layer is arrived at, the outer part of the gluteus is to be thrown towards its insertion, and the sciatic artery and nerves are to be detached from the under surface, though the branches that enter the muscular surface must be cut. The loose fat is to be taken away from the hollow between clean the pelvis and the trochanter, without injuring the vessels beneath, and nerves ; the several muscles of this region are then to be cleaned, and the fibres of each are to be made tense, at the time of its dissection, by rotating the femur. In removing the fat from the tuberosity of the ischium and from the great tro- chanter, the bursa on each prominence of bone should be ob- served. The vessels, nerves, and muscles to be made out in this region, are noticed below in the enumeration of the parts beneath the gluteus. Lastly, the origin of the muscle is to be removed ; and the Dissect sacral nerves, being dissected out of it, are to be followed to sacral the surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, where theynerveS* are united, and concealed by some aponeurotic fibres. Parts beneath the gluteus.—At its origin the gluteus Parts maximus rests on the pelvis, and conceals part of the ilium, bygiu- sacrum, and coccyx ; above, the muscle also covers the tube- its ori- rosity of the ischium, the origin of the hamstring muscles, 8m686 DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. and in- and the great sacro-sciatic ligament. At its insertion it sertion, covers the upper end of the femur with the great trochanter, and the origin of the vastus externus. Between the muscle and each prominence of bone (tuberosity and trochanter) is a large, loose synovial membrane; and between it and the vastus externus is another sac. and by In the hollow between the pelvis and the femur the mus- the in- L terven- cle conceals, from above downwards, the undermentioned ing part of the parts : — First is a portion of the gluteus medius ; and below muscle. * 1 ° it is the pyriformis, with, the superficial branch of the gluteal artery between them. Coming from beneath the pyriformis are the sciatic vessels, and the sciatic nerves (large and small), which descend to the back of the thigh between the great trochanter and the tuberosity of the ischium ; with these are the pudic vessels' and nerve, and the nerve to the obtu- rator internus muscle, which are directed inwards through the small sacro-sciatic notch. Still lower down is the tendon of the obturator internus muscle, with a fleshy fasciculus (gemellus) above and below it. Next follow the thin quad- ratus femoris muscle, and the upper part of the adductor magnus; at the upper border of the quadratus is the tendon of the obturator externus, and at the lower border, between it and the adductor, is one of the terminal branches of the internal circumflex artery. The ex- Sacral nerves.— The external branches of the posterior branches divisions of the three first sacral nerves, after passing out- nerves wards beneath the multifidus spinge (p. 420.), are joined by" are united loops on the surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, gluteus. Two or three cutaneous offsets are derived from this inter- communication, and pierce the fibres of the gluteus maximus to be distributed on the surface (p. 683.). Gluteus The gluteus medius is triangular in form, and has its medius , . . , . n -r base at the innominate bone, and its apex at the temur. It arises arises from the outer suface of the os ilii, between the crest mi, and the superior curved line, except where the gluteus maxi- mus is attached ; and from the strong fascia covering its an- terior part. The fibres of origin converge to a tendon which and in- is inserted into an impression across the outer surface of the into tro- great trochanter, extending from the tip behind to the root in front. The superficial surface is concealed in part by the connec- gluteus maximus; and the deep is in contact with the glu- tions.687 GLUTEAL VESSELS AND NERVE. tens minimus, and the gluteal vessels and nerve. The ante- terior border is joined with the gluteus minimus, and the posterior is contiguous to the pyriformis, only the gluteal artery intervening. A small bursa is between the tendon of insertion and the trochanter. Dissection, — "When>the gluteus medius is detached from Detach ° gluteus | the ilium, and partly separated from the gluteus minimus ™egdj£8 beneath, the gluteal vessels and nerve will come into view, gluteal 7 ° < vessels The two chief branches of the artery and nerve, — one being near the crest of the ilium, and the other lower down, — are to be traced through the fleshy fibres as the reflection of the gluteus is proceeded with ; and the accompanying nerve is and to .be followed on at the same time to the tensor vaginas femoris muscle. A branch of the artery to the gluteus max- imus has necessarily been cut in removing that muscle. The gluteal artery is the largest branch of the internal Gluteal iliac (p. 601.), and issues from the pelvis above the pyri- formis muscle. On the dorsum of the ilium it ends in off- sets that supply the gluteal muscles and the bone, and ana- divided stomose with the other branches in this situation. Its named branches are superficial and deep : — a. The superficial branch sends inwards a few twigs over the superfi- sacrum, and ends in the gluteus maximus, which it penetrates on cial and the under surface. b. The deep branch is the continuation of the artery, and lies deep between the two smaller gluteal muscles: it subdivides into two branch: pieces. One (superior) courses along the origin of the gluteus minimus, with a branch of the nerve, to the front of the crest of this has the ilium, where it anastomoses with the ascending branches of the an upper external circumflex artery. The other division (inferior) is and a directed forwards over the middle of the smallest gluteal muscle, piece.' towards the lower anterior spine of the ilium and the great tro- chanter, and communicates also with the external circumflex branches; some offsets from it pierce the muscle to supply the hip-joint. Vein. — The companion vein of this artery enters the Gluteal pelvis, and ends in the internal iliac vein. 1 The superior gluteal nerve is a branch of the lumbo-sacral superior cord (p. 576.). It accompanies the gluteal artery, and di- nen? vides, like it, into two branches for the supply of the two ]fu5£us" smallest gluteal muscles ; but the lower branch may be traced forwards into the tensor vaginse femoris.688 DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. Gluteus The gluteus minimus is likewise conical in shape, and mini- . _ , 17 mus. arises Irom the dorsum of the ilium between the curved Attach- lines on the bone. The fibres are collected on a tendon, which is inserted into an oblique impression along the fore part of the great trochanter, and is united inferiorly with is next that of the gluteus medius. One surface is in contact with thebone'the gluteus medius, and the gluteal vessels and nerve ; the other, with the hip-joint and the bone, and the outer head of and is the rectus femoris muscle. The anterior border is blended withed with the other gluteus ; and the posterior touches the pyri- peced- formjg muscle> Divide Dissection. — The smallest gluteal muscle should be cut gkrteus! through near the innominate bone, and the tendinous part of the rectus femoris, close above the hip-joint, defined. Whilst detaching the muscle from the parts beneath, the student cannot fail to notice the connection between its tendon and the capsule of the joint. The deep vessels to the articula- tion may be observed and followed after the muscle is re- moved. outer The outer head of the rectus femoris is a slip of tendon the rec- about an inch and a half long, that reaches outwards, almost where horizontally, above the margin of the acetabulum. In front ' it joins the other tendinous piece of the rectus, that is at- tached to the anterior inferior spine of the ilium ; and below it is connected by fibres with the capsule of the hip-joint. Origin The ptriformis arises in the pelvis from the front of the in the L pelvis, sacrum (p. 635 ), and comes from that cavity through the inser- great sacro-sciatic notch. Outside the pelvis it ends in a the tendon, and is inserted by it into the upper border of the great trochanter, between the gluteus medius and minimus, lies in and is frequently united with the latter. As the muscle sdauc passes through the sacro-sciatic notch it divides that space into two parts : the upper of these gives passage to the glu- teal vessels and nerve, and the lower to the sciatic and pudic position vessels and nerves. Its upper border is contiguous to the par°ts.er gluteus medius, and its slower edge to the gemellus superior. Like the other rotator muscles in this situation, it is covered by the gluteus maximus, and rests on the hip-joint. Dissect Dissection. — The pyriformis may be cut across, and vessels raised towards the sacrum, to allow the dissector to trace nerves, upwards the sciatic and pudic vessels, and the corresponding689 SCIATIC AND PUDIC VESSELS. nerves to the lower part of the sacral plexus. Some small offsets to the gemellus superior and the hip-joint are to be sought at the lower part of the plexus. A branch to the inferior gemellus and the quadratus will be found by raising the trunk of the great ^ciatic nerve; but it will be followed to its termination afterwards, since it passes beneath those muscles. Sciatic and Pudic Vessels. — The vessels on the back The of the pelvis, below the pyriformis muscle, are branches of comels the internal iliac, like the gluteal artery (p. 603.). aSj? the The sciatic artery supplies the buttock. After escaping sciatic from the pelvis below the pyriformis, it descends over the artery' gemelli and obturator muscles, in the interval between the course tuberosity of the ischium and the trochanter, as far as the quadratus femoris ; here the artery ends in branches for the and supply of the surrounding parts, and for anastomosis with the internal circumflex branch of the profunda artery. In es.to , L J joint and this course it furnishes muscular offsets to the great gluteus muscies. and the rotator muscles, and some articular branches to the hip-joint: some cutaneous offsets bend round the margin of the gluteus (p. 442.). It supplies also the following named branches : — a. The coccygeal branch, arising close to the pelvis, perforates the Coccy- great sacro-sciatic ligament and the gluteus maximus, and ramifies branch, in this muscle, and on the back of the sacrum. b. The branch to the great sciatic nerve (comes nervi ischiadici) ^r^ch is very slender, and enters the substance of the nerve near the sciatic pelvis; it extends in the nerve along the thigh, supplying offsets nerve* to it. c. The branch to the quadratus passes with the nerve of the same Branch name beneath the gemelli and obturator internus, and gives quadra- branches to the hip-joint and the inferior gemellus before it termi- tus' nates in its muscle. The pudic artery belongs to the perinseum and the geni- pUdic tal organs: it is less than the sciatic, and internal to it. artery* Only a small part of the vessel is seen on the back of the pelvis, for, after winding over the spine of the ischium, it crosses enters the perineal space through the small sacro-sciatic theis.0. notch, and is there distributed (p. 452.). It supplies a small branch over the back of the sacrum, which anasto- moses with the gluteal and sciatic vessels; and a twig from it accompanies the nerve to the obturator internus muscle. Y YDISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. 690 Veins. The veins with the sciatic and pudic arteries receive con- tributing twigs corresponding to the branches of those arte- ries, and open into the internal iliac vein. Nerves Sciatic and Pudic Nerves.— The nerves appearing at from the back of the pelvis, below the pyriformis, are branches of plexus, the sacral plexus to the lower limb, or to parts beyond the gluteal region (p. 607.). Some small muscular branches are present at the same spot, small The small sciatic may be considered a cutaneous nerve of nerve the back of the thigh, for it supplies only one muscle — the acuta-fly gluteus maximus : it springs from the lower part of the nerve; sacral plexus, generally by two parts that remain sepa- rate. The nerve takes the course of the sciatic artery as far as the lower border of the great gluteus, where it gives many cutaneous branches upwards and downwards : much diminished in size at that spot, the nerve is continued along ends in the back of the thigh, beneath the fascia, and ends in the the leg ; integument of the posterior part of the leg. The branches that are distributed on or near the buttock are muscular and cutaneous. gives a. The muscular tranches (inferior gluteal) enter the under sur- esato°h" face of the gluteus maximus near the lower border. A separate rnaxi-S °ffse^ °ftne sacral plexus is usually furnished to the upper part of mus- the muscle. Cutane- b. The cutaneous branches are directed either upwards or down- nerves wards at the border of the gluteus. The upper set are distributed buttoclf m ^ne superficial fascia over the lower part of the muscle. The the t0 l°wer set supply the integument of the inner side of the thigh at thigh; the posterior aspect: one of these branches, which is larger than one of the others, is distributed to the genital organs, and is named inferior the last pU(iendai (p 446.) ; as it courses to the peringeum, it turns below pudTn- tne tuberosity of the ischium, and perforates the fascia lata only dal- when it has nearly reached the perinatal space. Sometimes the inferior pudendal is a distinct branch of the plexus. Great The great sciatic is the largest nerve in the body, and is nerve0; the source of all the muscular, and most of the cutaneous outline branches beyond the knee, a3 well as of the muscular branches at the back of the thigh. At its origin it appears to be a prolongation of the interlacement of the nerves of the sacral and end- plexus. After leaving the pelvis, it is directed through the mg' region of the buttock to the posterior part of the thigh, course where it divides into branches for the leg. In the part of69 i EXTERNAL ROTATOR MUSCLES. y y 2 its course now dissected, viz., to the lower border of the in the gluteus maximus, it lies in the hollow between the tuberosity of the ischium and the great trochanter, and rests on the external rotator muscles below the pyriformis. Oftentimes the nerve is divided into two large trunks at its origin, and one of them pierces the fibres of the pyriformis muscle. Commonly it does not supply any branch to the buttock, but No it may give origin to a few filaments to the hip-joint. in this The pudic nerve winds over the spine of the ischium with part* . -, , r . Pudic its companion artery and the nerve to the obturator interims nerve. muscle, and is distributed with the vessel to the perinaeum and the genital organs (p. 453.). No branch is supplied by it to the buttock. The remaining muscular and articular branches are derived other from the lower part of the sacral plexus. onhehes Some nerves to the hip-joint perforate the back of the plexUs' Nerves capsular ligament, and supply the articulation. to the A nerve to the superior gemellus is a very small twig, and arises separately from the lower part of the plexus. p|"°j A nerve to the inferior gemellus and the quadratus is a lus- slender branch; it passes with a companion artery beneath ^JieT-*0 the gemelli and the obturator internus, and ends in the two q„ad?a- muscles from which it receives its designation. This nerve tus* will be more fully seen in a subsequent dissection, when articular filaments from it to the hip-joint may be recog- nised. Dissection.—To see the remaining small rotator muscles, clean hook aside the great sciatic nerve, and take away the muscles, branches of the sciatic artery if it may be necessary. In cleaning these muscles the limb should be kept rotated in- wards. The gemelli are to be turned aside from the tendon of the obturator internus. The SUPERIOR GEMELLUS is the highest of the two muS- Superior cular slips along the sides of the tendon of the obturator gemellus muscle. Internally it is attached to the spine of the ischium, iS often and externally it is inserted with the obturator into the great dbsent' trochanter. Oftentimes this muscle is absent. The inferior gemellus is larger and more constant than inferior its fellow. Its origin is connected with the inner and hinder §eme us part of the tuberosity of the ischium, and its insertion is the inserted same as that of the obturator tendon. This muscle is placed turato?."692 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. between the obturator interims and quadratus muscles, but near the femur the tendon of the obturator externus comes into contact with its lower border. Obtura- The obturator internus arises inside the pelvis, and ternus passes to the exterior through the small sacro-sciatic notch has part ^ 535 ^ Escaped from the .pelvis, the muscle is directed outwards over the articulation of the hip, and is inserted by and part a tendon with the gemelli into the upper border of the great pelvis; trochanter, in front of the pyriformis, as well as into the inner surface of that process above the pit at the root, latter Outside the pelvis the obturator is mostly tendinous, and is part lies over hip embraced by the gemelli muscles and a synovial sac. Cross- ing the muscle are the large and small sciatic nerves, and the sciatic vessels ; and covering the whole is the gluteus maximus. On cutting through the tendon, and raising the its ten. inner end, it will be found divided into four or five pieces as divided it turns over the margin of the pelvis ; at this spot the pelvis edge is marked by ridges of fibro-cartilage, that correspond to the pelvis, intervals between the tendons, and the whole is lubricated by a synovial membrane. Quadra- The quadratus femoris has the form expressed by its tusfemo- . n ris; name, and is situate between the inferior gemellus and the origin; adductor magnus. Internally it arises from the outer sur- face of the tuberosity of the ischium, along the side of the origin of the semimembranosus and part of the adductor inser- magnus ; externally it is inserted into the linea quadrati of the upper end of the femur, above the attachment of the parts great adductor to the same line. By one surface it is in con- and be- tact with the sciatic vessels and nerves and the gluteus ; and by the other surface it rests on the obturator externus, the internal circumflex artery, and the small branches of both the and at nerve and artery that supply it. Between its lower border lower J rr J border. and the adductor magnus one of the terminal branches of the internal circumflex artery issues. Between it and the small trochanter is a bursa, which is also common to the upper part of the adductor magnus. Dissect Dissection. — The quadratus and the gemelli muscles may circum- A 0 " tiex now be cut across, so that the obturator externus, the ending artery. ' 7 0 of the internal circumflex artery, and the small nerve and artery to the same muscles, may be dissected out. internal internal circumflex branch of the profunda artery circum- <J * • •693 SACRO-SCIATIC LIGAMENTS. (p. 678.) divides finally into two parts. One ascends beneath flex the quadratus, in this position of the body, to the pit of the artery trochanter, where it anastomoses with the sciatic artery, and supplies the bone. The other passes between the quadratus ends in and adductor magnus to the hamstring muscles, and commu- branch- . es. nicates likewise with the sciatic artery, The obturator externus has been dissected at its origin ootura- in the front of the thigh (p. 681.). In the part of its course temus now laid bare, the muscle winds backwards below the hip- joint, and ascends from that position to be inserted into the is insert- pit at the root of the great trochanter. On the back of the the tro- pelvis the obturator externus is covered by the quadratus, except near the femur, where the upper border is in contact tions. with the inferior gemellus. The sacro-sciatic ligaments pass from the innominate sacro- bone to the sacrum and the coccyx; they are two in number, and are named large and small. The large or posterior ligament is attached internally to Attach- the lower posterior spine of the ilium, and to the side of the ™fetheS sacrum and coccyx; and externally it is inserted into an im- 0{nreg#e pression on the anterior and inner part of the tuberosity of the ischium. It is wide next the sacrum, but is contracted Form; towards the middle, and is expanded again at the ischial tuberosity; from its outer attachment it sends upwards a gives a prolongation along the ramus of the ischium. On the cuta- gation. neous surface are the branches of the sacral nerves ; and the gluteus maximus conceals and takes origin from it. The small ligament will be seen on dividing the other small near the tuberosity of the ischium. At the sacrum and men"t coccyx it is united with the large ligamentous band, but at attach- the opposite end it is inserted into the spine of the ischium. ments; It is less strong than the superficial ligament, by which it is concealed, and rests on the coccygeus muscle. These ligaments convert the large sacro-sciatic notch of they the dried pelvis into two apertures or foramina by their to\w"se attachments to the bones. Between the insertion of both notches * into the innominate bone (the spine and tuberosity) is the small sacro-sciatic foramen, which contains the internal ob- small, turator muscle with its nerve, and the pudic vessels and contents, nerve. Whilst above the smaller ligament is the large sacro- sciatic foramen, which gives passage to the pyriformis iarge, y y 3694 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. and parts muscle, and several vessels and nerves, viz. the gluteal ves- passing 1 -i i • through sels, and the superior gluteal nerve above, and the sciatic and pudic vessels and nerves, with some muscular branches of the sacral plexus below it. Section III. THE BACK OF THE THIGH. tumsC~ Directi°ns- — The ham or the popliteal space maybe dis- sected after the buttock, in order that its size and boundaries may be less disturbed than they would be if they were seen subsequently to the examination of the muscles at the back of the thigh. When this space has been learnt the student will return to the dissection of the thigh, position. Position. — The limb is to remain in the same position as in the dissection of the buttock. Take the Dissection.—To remove the skin from the popliteal region, from let an incision be made behind the knee-joint, beginning it ham. about six inches above the knee, and ending it four inches below the joint. At each extremity of this longitudinal cut, let a transverse incision be made,, so as to allow the skin to be raised in two flaps, the one being turned outwards, and the other inwards. Seek the In the superficial fascia some small cutaneous nerves may ousane" be found, viz. one or two twigs in the middle line of the limb neives* from the small sciatic nerve beneath the fascia; and some off- sets of the internal cutaneous towards the inner part of the limb. Fascia Fascia lata.—After the fat is removed, the special fascia \\mbQ of the limb will be brought into view. Where it covers the ham.the popliteal space it is strengthened by transverse fibres, par- ticularly on the outer side ; and at each side it is connected with the tendons bounding that interval. The short saphe- nous vein perforates it sometimes opposite the knee, but usually at a spot lower down. Remove Dissection. — The fascia over the ham is now to be re- moved without injuring the small sciatic nerve and the short and take saphenous vein, which are beneath it. A large quantity of fromSie ftt may next be taken out of the space, and the several ham.POPLITEAL SPACE. 695 vessels and nerves be looked for. After the ham has been cleaned, the sartorius and the gracilis are to be replaced on the inner side. In the middle line the student will first come upon the seek the i i t i i i • t nerves in large internal popliteal nerve, and nearer the outer side, on the the external popliteal; both give branches, and their offsets SpdCe' will be recognised more certainly by tracing them from above down along the trunk of the nerve, than by proceeding in the opposite direction. In fat bodies the small nerves to the knee-joint are difficult to find. Under cover of the outer boundary, and deep in the space, is an articular nerve (ex- ternal), which sometimes arises from the great sciatic. In the bottom of the space are the popliteal vessels, and and the vein is more superficial than the artery. The student is vessels.6 to seek an articular branch (superior), on each side, close above the condyle of the femur. Numerous other branches of the vessels to the muscles around, especially below, are to be cleaned. On the upper part of the artery the branch of with ob. nerve from the obturator to the knee-joint may be found. nerve*.1" The popliteal space, or the ham, is the hollow behind The the knee which allows of the free flexion of the joint. In it the large vessels of the limb are contained. When dissected, situa- this interval has the form of a lozenge, and extends upwards extent: along one-third of the femur, and downwards along one-sixth of the tibia ; but in the natural condition of the parts the sides are approximated by the fascia of the limb, and the space is limited almost to the region of the joint. This hollow is situate between the attachments of the Bounda- muscles at the back of the limb to the condyles of the femur, and the lateral boundaries are therefore formed in part by the muscles of the thigh (hamstrings), and in part by those of the leg. Thus, on the outer side, is the biceps muscle as outer far as the joint, and the plantaris and the external head of the gastrocnemius are below it; but on the inner side, as low and ° inner. as the articulation, are the semimembranosus and semiten- dinosus muscles, with the gracilis and sartorius between them and the femur ; and beyond the joint is the inner head of the gastrocnemius. The upper point of the ham is ^mit limited by the apposition of the inner and outer hamstring muscles, in the middle line of the thigh ; and the lower point, Y Y 4DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 696 and by the union of the heads of the gastrocnemius. Stretched across this cavity is the fascia lata; and, forming the deep bound b°un(^arJ? or tne floor, are the following parts, — the lower ary. end of the posterior surface of the femur included between the lines to the condyles, the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, and the popliteus muscle with the upper end of the tibia. Greatest The popliteal space is widest opposite the knee-joint, and where the muscles are most drawn to the sides, and is deepest depth; 7 r contents, above the articular end of the femur. In it are contained the popliteal vessels and their branches, and the ending of the external saphenous vein; the popliteal divisions of the great sciatic nerve, and some of their branches; with some lymphatic glands, and a large quantity of fat. The small sciatic nerve lies over the space ; and the branch of the obturator is on the artery in the bottom of the hollow. Popliteal The popliteal artery is the continuation of the femoral extent- ^runkj an^ reaches from the opening in the adductor magnus to the lower border of the popliteus muscle; at this spot it terminates by bifurcating into the anterior and posterior part is in tibial vessels. In a part of its extent it lies in the ham, and the ham, . is uncovered by muscle ; but, inferiorly, it is beneath the and part gastrocnemius, and beyond the limits of the popliteal space beyond. ^ aDove defined : the description of the artery may, there- fore, be divided into two parts, corresponding with the differ- ence in the connections. The part In the ham the vessel is inclined obliquely from the inner space; side of the limb to the interval between the condyles of the course femur, and is then directed along the middle of the space and con- 7 ° 1 nections. over the knee-joint. In this course it is overlaid at first by the belly of the semimembranosus muscle, but thence on- wards to the gastrocnemius it is covered only by the fat, the fascia lata, and the integuments. Beneath it is the lower part of the posterior surface of the femur, together with the Position posterior ligament of the knee-joint. In contact with the ° vem vessel, and somewhat on its outer side, lies the popliteal vein, so that, on looking into the space, the arterial trunk is almost covered by it; but, lower down, in the interval be- tween the heads of the gastrocnemius, the vein and its branches altogether conceal the artery. More superficial than the large vessels, and slightly external to them in posi-697 POPLITEAL VESSELS. tion, is placed the internal popliteal nerve, which, however, and of like the vein, lies over the artery between the heads of the nerve, gastrocnemius. Dissection. — To see the artery beneath the gastrocnemius ^dof the inner head of this muscle should be cut through, and ^If' raised from the subjacent parts. On removing the cellular mms* tissue the vessels and nerves will appear. The lower arti- cular branches of the vessels and nerves are now brought into view ;—the inner artery is below the head of the tibia, and the outer higher up between the tibia and fibula, each with a vein and a nerve. Whilst the artery is beneath the gastrocnemius it sinks ^onTof" deeply into the limb, and is crossed by a small muscle, the ^ery plantaris. It is placed on the popliteus muscle. Both the onr.ther vein and the nerve (internal popliteal) change their position Position to the artery, and gradually cross over it, so as to lie on its and inner side at the lower border of the popliteus. Branches are furnished by the artery to the surrounding eSr.anch" muscles, and to the articulation ; those that enter the joint are five in number, and are called articular, viz..two superior, inner and outer; two inferior, also inner and outer; and a central or azygos branch. The muscular branches have not received separate names, ^ruscu" with the exception of those to the gastrocnemius and soleus, J?™1^" which are called sural arteries. One superficial or cutaneous cut«ne- branch accompanies the short saphenous nerve above the muscles of the leg. The superior articular arteries arise from the popliteal ^/j1"^ trunk, one from the inner and one from the outer side, above jpintare 7 ' five; the condyles of the femur; they are directed almost trans- versely beneath the hamstring muscles, and turn round the two su- „ ° penor, bone to the front of the joint. The external one perforates the intermuscular septum, andexternal divides in the substance of the vastus externus : some of the branches end in that muscle, and anastomose with the external circumflex (of the profunda) ; others descend to the joint; and one offset forms an arch across the bone with the anastomotic artery. The internal artery, oftentimes very small, winds beneath the ferna?" tendon of the adductor magnus, and terminates in branches in the vastus internus, that supply it and the knee-joint, and communicate with the anastomotic artery. The inferior articular branches lie beneath the gastro- Two 0 inferior;698 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. cnemius, but are not on the same level on the two sides of the limb, for the inner one descends below the head of the tibia, whilst the outer one is placed above the fibula. Each lies beneath the lateral ligament of its own side. also ex- The external branch supplies the outer side of the knee-joint, and anastomoses with the other vessels on the articulation, and with the recurrent branch of the anterior tibial artery: it sends an offset beneath the ligament of the patella to join a twig from the lower internal branch. and in- The internal arterv turns upwards to the ioint at the anterior ternal • " . . ' border of the internal lateral ligament, and after taking its share in the free anastomoses over the joint, ends in offsets for the arti- culation and the head of the tibia, and one The azygos branch enters the back of the joint through artery, the posterior ligament, and is distributed to the ligamentous structures and the synovial membrane of the interior. Popliteal The popliteal vein originates in the union of the vense vein. _ comites of the anterior and posterior tibial vessels, and has the same extent and connections as the artery it accompanies. Position At the lower border of the popliteus muscle the vein is artery, internal to the arterial trunk ; between the heads of the gastrocnemius it is superficial to that vessel; and thence to the opening in the adductor magnus it is to the outer side, Branch, and close to the artery. It is joined by branches correspond- ing to those of the artery, as well as by the short saphenous vein. Popliteal Peculiarities in the division of the artery. — The chief peculiarity may7 of the popliteal artery consists in its early division into terminal soonf branches. In some bodies the artery will be found divided as high as the back of the knee-joint, and in such instances the anterior tibial artery may lie beneath the popliteus muscle. Vein Course of the vein. — The popliteal vein may pass through the Save adductor magnus at a spot higher than the common opening, and teryar" enter the profunda vein. or be Double vein. — Or there may be a venous trunk on each side of spht* the artery for a certain distance, in consequence of the venae comites of the tibial arteries not being blended together as soon as is usually the case. Popliteal The popliteal nerves are two large trunks that are anTtwo, derived from the division of the great sciatic in the thigh; they are named internal and external from their relative inner position. In the popliteal space each furnishes cutaneousPOPLITEAL NERVES. and articular offsets, but only the inner one supplies branches and ■ J 11 outer. to muscles. The internal popliteal nerve is larger than the external, The in- and occupies the middle of the ham. Its connections are nerve the same as those of the artery, that is to say, it is partly space! superficial and partly covered by the gastrocnemius : like the vessel it extends through the back of the leg, and retains the name popliteal only to the lower border of the popliteus muscle. Its position with reference to the vessels has been already noticed. The branches that arise from it here are Branch- the following : — Two or three small articular twigs are furnished to the knee- two or joint with the vessels. One is with the lower internal articular a^icu- artery, and is of considerable size ; and another takes the same lar; course as the azygos artery. Occasionally a third may be found with the upper internal articular artery. Muscular branches arise from the nerve between the heads of to the the gastrocnemius. One supplies both heads of the gastrocnemius ciaT^" and the plantaris; another descends beneath the gastrocnemius and ™"hee8 enters the cutaneous surface of the soleus; and a third penetrates pe0p'1f.nd the popliteus at the under aspect, after turning round the lower teus '■> border. The external saphenous nerve (ram. communicans tibialis) is the external largest branch, and is a cutaneous offset to the leg and foot. It no^T" lies on the surface of the gastrocnemius, but beneath the fascia, as nerve- far as the middle of the leg, where it becomes cutaneous, and will be afterwards seen (p. 707.). The external popliteal nerve (peroneal) lies along the External outer boundary of the ham, and follows the biceps muscle to nerve, the head of the fibula. Below the head of that bone the nerve enters the fibres of the peroneus longus muscle, and divides beneath it into two,—musculocutaneous and anterior tibial. Its branches whilst in the popliteal space are cuta- Branch, neous and articular. es; The articular nerve runs with the upper external artery to the one ar- outer side of the knee, where it sends a twig along the lower arti- tlcular* cular artery, and enters the joint. The peroneal communicating branch (ram. communicans fibu- A com- laris) is a cutaneous nerve, and joins the external saphenous jJ5gmcat" branch of the internal popliteal about the middle of the leg. It branch- arises near the head of the fibula, and soon pierces the deep fascia; cutaneous offsets are given by it to the back of the leg. One or two other cutaneous offsets are furnished by the external Cutane-700 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. ous off- popliteal to tlie integument on the outer part of the leg in the sets' upper half. Articu- The articular hranch of the obturator nerve perforates the nerve of adductor magnus, and is conducted by the popliteal artery to the turator. back of the knee-joint. After supplying filaments to the vessel, the nerve enters the articulation through the posterior ligament. Lymph- The lymphatic glands of the popliteal space are situate glands around the large arterial trunk ; two or three are ranged on the the sides, whilst one is superficial to, and another beneath a tery' the vessel: they are joined by the deep lymphatic vessels of the lower limb, as well as by the superficial accompanying the saphenous vein. Dissect Dissection,—Now the anatomy of the popliteal space has of the been learnt, the student may proceed with the dissection of thigh. ^ Q£ foe thigh. The piece of skin therefore that re- mains between the buttock and the popliteal space, should be divided and reflected to the sides. Seek out In the fat on the sides of the limb offsets of the internal ous and external cutaneous nerves of the front of the thigh may be found, and along the middle line, some filaments from the small sciatic nerve, clean Lastly, remove the deep fascia of the limb, taking care of and the small sciatic nerve; and then clean the hamstring nerves* muscles, and trace into them branches of the great sciatic nerve. Three The MUSCLES ON THE BACK OF THE THIGH act as flexors of on back the leg. They extend from the pelvis to the bones of the leg, and are named hamstrings from their cord-like appear- ance on the sides of the ham: they are three in number, situa- viz. biceps, semitendinosus, and semimembranosus ; the first llon' of these lies on the outer, and the others on the inner side of the popliteal space. Biceps The biceps has two heads of origin, long and short, which a7ongby are attached to the pelvis and the femur. The long head arises from the middle impression on the back of the tubero- sity of the ischium, in common with the semitendinosus mus- anda cle; the short head is fixed to the femur below the gluteus short . . n i head; maximus, viz. to the linea aspera, to nearly the whole of the line leading inferiorly to the outer condyle, and to the ex- ternal intermuscular septum. The fibres from these sources are collected together to form the belly of the muscle, and endHAMSTRING MUSCLES. 701 inferiorly in a tendon, which is inserted into the head of the is insert- fibula by two processes, that embrace the external lateral the fibu* ligament. The muscle is superficial, except at the origin, where it is covered by the gluteus; and it rests on the upper part of the semimembranosus, on the great sciatic nerve, and Connec- on the adductor magnus muscle. On the inner side is the the semitendinosus muscle as far as the ham. Its tendon gives offsets to the deep fascia of the limb. The semitendinosus is a slender muscle, and receives its Seim- name from its appearance. It arises from the tuberosity of nosus is . J attached the ischium with the long head of the biceps, and by fleshy to pelvis fibres from the tendon of that muscle ; and inferiorly it is in- tibia. serted into the inner surface of the tibia, close below the gracilis, and for about the same distance. This muscle, like the biceps, is partly covered by the gluteus maximus; it rests on the semimembranosus, and on the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. A tendinous intersection is to be observed about its middle. The outer border is in con- sur- tact with the biceps as far as the popliteal space. As the par?sding tendon turns forwards to its insertion, an expansion is con- with it. tinued from it to the fascia of the leg; and it is separated from that of the sartorius by the bursa before referred to (p. 665.). The semimembranosus muscle is tendinous at both ends, semi- and its name is taken from the membraniform appearance of n^sus™" the upper tendon. The muscle is attached above to the highest impression on the back of the tuberosity of the ischium, above and external to the semitendinosus and bi- ceps ; and it is inserted below at the hinder and inner part of reaches the head of the tibia. The muscle presents a thick fleshy pre°i™s to belly inferiorly, where it bounds the popliteal space: on it is tlbia' the semitendinosus, which is lodged in a hollow in the upper Parts tendon ; and beneath it is the adductor magnus. Along the it. outer border is the great sciatic nerve, and below the place of division of that nerve, is the internal popliteal trunk. The insertion of the muscle will be dissected with the ten- dons in connection with the knee-joint. The great sciatic nerve lies on the adductor magnus Great between the buttock and the popliteal space, and divides into nerve in the two popliteal nerves about the middle of the thigh, thigh, though its point of bifurcation may be carried upwards702 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. as far as the pelvis. In this extent the nerve lies along the outer border of the semimembranosus, and is crossed by flexores tne long nea(l of the biceps. At its upper part it supplies ax]i . branches to the flexor muscles at the back of the thi^h, and adductor © 7 muscles, to the adductor magnus. Small Small sciatic nerve. — Between the gluteus maximus and fnthe the ham this small nerve is close beneath the fascia, but it thlsh becomes cutaneous below the knee, and accompanies the ex- ternal or posterior saphenous vein for a short distance, oufoff Snian cutaneous filaments pierce the fascia of the thigh, and sets. |;ne largest of these is near the popliteal space. Detach Dissection. — To see the posterior surface of the adductor strings, magnus, and the branches of the perforating arteries, the hamstring muscles must be detached from the tuberosity of the ischium, and thrown down, and the branches of arteries and nerves they receive may be cut through if it is neces- sary. The parts referred to are to be cleaned. Poste- Adductor magnus muscle. — At its posterior aspect the aspect^of large adductor is altogether fleshy, even to the opening for magnus. the femoral artery; and the fibres from the rami of the pubes and ischium appear to form a part almost distinct from those connected with the tuberosity of the ischium. In contact with this surface are the hamstring muscles and the great sciatic nerve. Number Ending of the perforating arteries. — These arteries are ries?^ four in number, and the spots at which they pierce the ad- ductor muscles have been before referred to p. 679. Muscles On the back of the thigh all of them supply offsets to the supplied £exor muscies 0f the leg. The three lowest are directed outwards, close to the bone and through the short head of end in the biceps, to the vastus externus in which they end ; but vastus . exter. the second perforating artery may run higher up than the attachment of the head of the biceps. Hip. The Hip-joint.—This articulation is a ball and socket- how' joint, in which the head of the femur is received into the formed; ments. acetabulum, or the cup-shaped cavity of the innominate its liga- bone. Connecting the bones are the following ligaments : — one to deepen the receiving cavity, which is named cotyloid; another between the articular surfaces of the bones, the interarticular; and a loose capsule around all.THE HIP-JOINT. 703 Dissection.—The muscles are to be taken away from the Lay back of the hip-joint, and the upper and lower attachments capsule, of the capsular ligament to be defined. Afterwards the front of the joint should be dissected in the same manner, with the body turned over for a short time if this change in the posi- tion does not interfere with the other dissections. The capsular ligament is a loose fibrous covering that is Capsule, fixed by one end around the acetabulum, and by the other to the neck of the femur. Its upper margin is attached to the Attach- ments circumference of the acetabular cavity at a short distance above from the edge, as well as to a transverse ligamentous band over the notch at the inner side of the cavity. Its lower margin is inserted in front into the anterior trochanteric and: line; and behind into the neck of the femur about a finger's breadth from the posterior trochanteric line, and the tro- chanters. The capsule is thinnest below, where it is in con- tact with the obturator externus. In front it is thickened by Qn tbe a band of fibres — ilio-femoral ligament, which crosses from bandoV* the lower of the two anterior spines of the ilium to the tro- fibres' chanteric line; and at the upper and outer part there is Another another strong band, that is attached externally to the top of outslde* the great trochanter in front, and is connected with the ten- don of the gluteus minimus. Posteriorly the joint is covered Muscles by the external rotator muscles; anteriorly by the psoas and around* iliacus, a bursa being between; and below by the obturator externus. Dissection. — The capsular ligament should be divided Cut open over the prominence of the head of the femur, and this bone suie?ap disarticulated to see the cotyloid and interarticular liga- ments. The cotyloid ligament is a band of fibro-cartilage, which is c<>ty- fixed to the margin of the acetabulum, and is prolonged gament across the notch on the inner side, so as to form part of the transverse ligament. It is thickest at its attachment to the bone, and becomes gradually thinner towards the free mar- attached gin, where it is applied to the head of the femur. This liga- acetaou- ment deepens the socket for the femur in the same manner as the glenoid ligament increases the surface for the reception of the head of the humerus. The transverse ligament is a firm but narrow band, that Trans- reaches across the notch at the inner side of the acetabulum : gllfnent"704 DISSECTION OF THE LEO. how it consists partly of special fibres that are attached to the margins of the notch, and partly of some from the cotyloid forms a ligament. Beneath it is an aperture by which the vessels with enter the acetabulum to nourish the fat in the bottom of that bone. -.I hollow. Round The inter articular ligament (ligam. teres) is a strong band ligament conneC£ing the femur with the innominate bone. One extre- mity is roundish, and is inserted into the pit in the head is divid- of the femur ; the other is bifid, and is connected to the sides temaiiy. of the notch in the cotyloid cavity, the lowest lip of the notch receiving the strongest band. Synovial A synovial membrane lines the capsular ligament, and is brine", continued along it to the acetabulum and the head of the femur. In the bottom of the cotyloid cavity it is reflected over the fat in that situation, and surrounds the ligamentum teres. Detach Dissection. — To see the surface of the acetabulum the the limb, lower limb is to be separated from the trunk by dividing the interarticular ligament, and cutting through any parts that attach it to the rest of the body. Articu- Surfaces of hone. — The articular surfaces of the bones are faces not completely covered with cartilage. In the head of the bones, femur is a pit into which the round ligament is inserted. In the bottom of the acetabulum is a space free from cartilage, in which a reddish fatty mass is lodged: this is sometimes synovial called the synovial gland. Beneath the transverse ligament an artery and a nerve enter the joint to supply the fat. Section IV. THE BACK OF THE LEG. Examine Directions.—Before the dissection of the leg is begun, the face. student should make himself acquainted, as in the thigh, with the prominences of bone or muscle on the surface, and with the markings that lead to the position of the subjacent vessels. in the Prominences on the surface. — The bones of the leg can leg the J °m tibia and be traced beneath the skin from the knee to the ankle-joint. fibula # J are su- On the inner side of the limb is the tibia, which is subcu- perficial.SURFACE MARKING OF THE LEG. 705 taneous in all its extent, and is limited in front and behind by a sharp ridge. Above, it presents in front a prominent tubercle into which the ligament of the patella is inserted ; and below, it ends on the inner side of the ankle in the inter- nal maleolar projection. On the outer side of the leg the fibula may be felt with ease in the lower half of its length, but with more difficulty in the upper half, in consequence of the prominence of the muscles of the calf. The head of this bone may be recognised below the knee; and the lower end forms the projection (malleolus) on the outer side of the ankle-joint. On the posterior aspect of the leg is the projection of the Behind calf: this is formed by the superficial muscles, and from it the leg. descends the firm band of the tendo Achillis, by which those Tendo muscles are connected with the heel. Between the tendon us and and the edge of the tibia, but nearest the former, is the vessels, superficial part of the posterior tibial artery. In front, be- Before, r r A J 7 anterior tween the tibia and fibula, are the extensor muscles of the tibial vessels, i foot and toes, amongst which the anterior tibial artery lies deeply: the position of the vessel will be indicated by a line from the centre of the ankle-joint, to the inner side of the head of the fibula. On the sides of the ankle-joint are the prominent malleoli; Ankie- and when the joint is extended, the head of the astragalus projects below the border of the tibia. At the inner border of the foot, about an inch from the Inner border of internal malleolus, is the prominent scaphoid bone pointing the foot, out the spot at which an amputation (that of Chopart) is practised; whilst farther forwards, by about one inch and a half, is a slight depression that marks the articulation be- tween the internal cuneiform bone and the metatarsal bone of the great toe. About the centre of the outer border of °uter . . n border. the foot is the eminence of the tarsal end of the fifth meta- tarsal bone. A line over the dorsum of the foot, from the Dorsal centre of the ankle-joint to the interval between the two inner toes, will be over the position of the artery of this part. Position. — For the dissection of the back of the leg the Position of the limb is to be placed on its front, with the foot over the side part, of the dissecting-table, and the muscles of the calf are to be put on the stretch by fastening the foot. z z706 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Take Dissection. — For the removal of the skin, one cut may be skin7 made along the middle of the leg to the sole of the foot, where a transverse incision is to be carried over the heel. The two resulting flaps of skin may be raised; the outer one is to be detached as far as the fibula, and the other as far as the inner margin of the tibia, seek cu- In the superficial fascia the cutaneous nerves and vessels nerves are to be followed. On the inner side, close to the tibia, is fat. the internal saphenous vein with the nerve of the same name, together with twigs of the internal cutaneous, near the knee. In the centre is the external saphenous vein, with the small sciatic nerve above, and the external saphenous nerve below the middle of the leg. On the outer side are the cutaneous offsets of the external popliteal nerve. super- The superficial fascia or the fatty layer of the back of the fosda.' leg is least thick over the tibia. Over the line of the super- ficial vessels it may be separated into two layers as in the thigh. Two su- Superficial Veins. — Two veins appear in the dissection veins, of the back of the leg, which are named saphenous—inner and outer. intprnai The internal saphenous vein begins in an arch on the nous? dorsum of the foot; it ascends along the leg in front of the inner ankle, and then behind the inner edge of the tibia, to reach the thigh, where it has been already noticed (p. 650.). In the leg the vein is joined by superficial branches, and by deep roots from the tibial veins. External The external saphenous vein begins at the outer end of nous. the arch on the dorsum of the foot, and appears below the outer ankle. The vein then courses along the back of the leg to the ham, where it ends in the popliteal vein. It receives large branches about the heel, and others on the back of the leg. cutane- Cutaneous Nerves.— The nerves in the superficial fascia ous nerves, of the back of the leg are prolongations of branches already examined in part, viz. the internal and external saphenous, cutaneous offsets of the external popliteal, the small sciatic nerve, and offsets of the internal cutaneous of the thigh. Internal The internal saphenous nerve, which has been traced before to saphe- ^e knee 672.)} accompanies tbe vein of the same name in the707 CUTANEOUS VESSELS AND NERVES. z z 2 leg, and terminates at the middle of the inner border of the foot, nous in In the leg the nerve gives off lateral * cutaneous offsets, and the the leg' ■ outer of these turn over the tibia to the anterior aspect. nation? The external saphenous nerve is a branch of the internal popliteal External (p. 699.) ; perforating the deep fascia about the middle of the leg, nous6" it is continued with the external saphenous vein below the outer ^sfo°0". ankle, and is distributed to the outer side of the foot and little toe. As soon as the nerve appears it is joined by the Communicating branches branch of the external popliteal, and near the heel it gives large !eg.he long branches to the integuments of that part. Cutaneous nerves of the external popliteaL — One branch of the Branch- external popliteal trunk (r. communicans fibularis, p. 699.) joins 0fthe the external saphenous nerve, usually, about the middle of the leg*; P°Pllteal but it is not uncommon to find this branch extend as a distinct ^caUng nerve, unconnected with the other, as far as the heel. The other small cutaneous offsets of the external popliteal terminate over the and cu- . -, o ii l taneous. outer side of the leg. The small sciatic nerve perforates the fascia near the popliteal Termi- space, and reaches with the external saphenous vein to about the small" °f middle of the leg; it ramifies in the integuments, and joins the sciatlc- external saphenous nerve. Offsets of the internal cutaneous.— Behind the internal saphenous Termi- nerve, near the knee, are the terminal branches of the inner divi- Tnter'nai^ sion of the internal cutaneous nerve of the thigh (p. 672.) ; these qu?16" extend to the middle, sometimes the lower third of the leg, and communicate with the internal saphenous nerve. Dissection. — The deep fascia will be seen by removing Take the fat. The superficial vessels and nerves may either be faTfy the cut or turned aside. The special or deep fascia on the posterior aspect of the Deep leg covers the muscles, and sends a thick process between the deep and superficial layers. Above, it is continuous with conti- the investing membrane of the thigh, and receives offsetsnuatlon* from the tendons about the knee; below, it joins the internal annular ligament. Externally it is continued uninterruptedly and from the one aspect of the limb to the other, but internally ments." ' it is fixed to the edge of the tibia. Veins are transmitted through it from the superficial to the deep vessels. Dissection. — The fascia is to be divided along the centre Take of the leg as far as the heel, and to be taken from the sur- faS.tbe face of the gastrocnemius muscle. By fixing with a stitch * Occasionally the junction may take place in or near the popliteal space.DISSECTION OP THE LEG. 708 the inner head that has been cut, the cleaning the fibres of the muscle will be facilitated. Muscles Superficial Layer op Muscles.—In the calf of the leg Sciaiper there are three muscles, gastrocnemius, soleus, and plantaris, layer* which are united in a common tendon, and extend the ankle : the two first are large, and give rise to the prominence on the surface, but the last is inconsiderable in size and is chiefly tendinous. Gastro- The gastrocnemius is the most superficial muscle ; united cnemius. m . below in the common tendon, it has above two distinct pieces or heads, which connect it with the condyles of the arises by femur. The inner head of origin is attached by a tendon to heads an impression at the posterior aspect of the inner condyle, femur, behind the insertion of the adductor magnus, and by fleshy fibres to the line above the condyle.' The outer head is fixed by a tendon to a pit on the outer surface of the correspond- ing condyle, above the attachment of the popliteus muscle, ends^be- These pieces are united along the middle line by a narrow Achniis ten(^mous S^P? an^ terminate inferiorly in the common tendon of insertion of the muscles of the superficial layer. Parts One surface is covered by the fascia; the other is in contact covered by it. with the soleus and the plantaris, and with the popliteal vessels and the internal popliteal nerve. The heads, by which the muscle arises, assist to form the lateral boundaries of the popliteal space: and the inner descends lower than the outer. In the tendon of the outer head is a piece of fibro-cartilage, or a sesamoid bone. Detach Dissection.—To see the soleus, the remaining head of the gastro- gastrocnemius is to be reflected by cutting it across, as well ' as the vessels and nerves it receives. After the muscle has been thrown down, the soleus and the plantaris must be cleaned. Soleus The soleus is a large flat muscle that is attached to both bones of the leg, and terminates, like the gastrocnemius, in is at- the strong common tendon. It arises from the head, and tached & boiesof ^e uPPer na^ °f tne posterior surface of the shaft of the the leg, fibula; from the oblique line across the tibia, and from the posterior edge of this bone in the middle third ; and, between the bones, from an aponeurotic arch over the large blood- and joins ves sels. Its fibres are directed downwards to the lower the ten- tendon. The superficial part of the soleus is in contact with709 EXTENSOR MUSCLES OF THE FOOT. z z 3 the gastrocnemius; and the opposed surfaces of the two are aponeurotic. Beneath the muscle are the bones of the leg, the deep layer of flexors, and the vessels and nerves. The common tendon of the gastrocnemius, soleus, and Tendo plantaris, (tendo Achillis) is the strongest in the body. It is wide above, and commences about the middle of the leg, Extent though it receives fleshy fibres on the under surface nearly to the lower end: it is inserted by a narrow and rounded and un- bundle into the lower part of the os calcis at the posterior aspect. A bursa intervenes between it and the upper part of the calcaneum. The tendon is close beneath the fascia ; and lying along its outer side, but superficial to it, is the external saphenous vein. The plantaris is remarkable in having the longest tendon pian- in the body, which takes the appearance of a riband when ittans is stretched laterally. The fibres- of the muscle arise from arises the line above the outer condyle of the femur, and from the outer condyle, posterior ligament of the knee joint, and soon end in the tendon which is inserted into the os calcis with, or by the side of the tendo Achillis. The belly of the muscle, which is about three inches in length, is concealed by the gastro- and joins , . i , . , n , common cnemius, but the tendon appears on the inner side 01 the tendon, tendo Achillis about the middle of the leg. This little mus- cle crosses the popliteal vessels, and lies on the soleus. Dissection. — The soleus is to be detached from the bones Detach of the leg, and the vessels and nerves it receives are to be divided ; but in raising it the student should take care not to injure the deep fascia and the vessels and nerves. The superficial muscles may next be removed by cutting through their tendons near the os calcis. The piece of fascia between the muscles of the superficial and and deep layer is then to be cleaned; and the integuments deep the between the inner ankle and the heel are to be taken away scia" to lay bare the annular ligament, but a cutaneous nerve to the sole of the foot in this spot is not to be destroyed. Lastly the student should open the bursa between the tendo Achillis and the os calcis, if this has not been done. Deep part of the fascia.—This intermuscular layer of the Deep- fascia of the leg is fixed to the tibia and fibula, and binds FSasda down the deep layer of flexor muscles. Beneath the soleus i°efg.he it is thin and indistinct; but below that muscle it is muchDISSECTION OF THE LEG. 710 stronger, and is marked by some transverse fibres near the malleoli, which give it the appearance of an annular liga- ment in that situation. Inferiorly it joins the annular liga- ment between the heel and the inner ankle, clean Dissection, — The deep layer of muscles, and the trunks muscles? and offsets of the posterior tibial and peroneal vessels, and the posterior tibial nerve, will be made ready for examination by the removal of the fascia and the cellular membrane. A muscle between the bones (tibialis posticus) is partly con- cealed by an aponeurosis which gives origin to the muscles on its sides, and will not fully appear till after this has been divided. Four Deep layer of muscles. — The deep flexor muscles at muscles back 0f the ieg are four jn number, viz. popliteus, flexor faver. longus pollicis, flexor longus digitorum, and tibialis posticus. The first of these is close to the knee-joint; it crosses the bones, and is covered by a special aponeurosis. The flexors Position lie on the bones, that of the great toe being on the fibula, and that of the other toes on the tibia. And the last muscle destina- covers the interosseous membrane. "With the exception of tlon* the popliteus, all enter the sole of the foot, and have a fleshy part parallel to the bones of the leg, and a tendinous part beneath the tarsus. Popii- The popliteus arises within the capsule of the knee- aSses joint; it is attached by a tendon to the fore part of an knee? oblong depression on the outer surface of the external J0lnt* condyle of the femur, below the external lateral ligament. External to the capsule of the joint the tendon gives origin to the fleshy fibres which radiate from it, and are inserted into the tibia above the oblique line on the posterior surface, inserted The muscle lies on the tibia, and is covered by a fascia, de- tlbia. rived in great part from the tendon of the semimembranosus muscle. On it lie the popliteal vessels and nerve, with the Parts gastrocnemius and plantaris. Along the upper border are around ^q lower articular vessels and nerve of the inner side of the knee. The insertion of the muscle corresponds to the attachment of the soleus to the tibia ; and the origin will be seen with the dissection of the ligaments of the knee-joint. Flexor The flexor longus pollicis pedis arises below the soleus pomcis from the lower half of the posterior surface of the fibula ex- tached cept an inch below, from the intermuscular septum betweenDEEP LAYER OF MUSCLES. 711 z z 4 it and the peronei muscles, and from the aponeurosis over to fibu- the tibialis. Inferiorly the tendon of the muscle enters a groove in the astragalus, and afterwards crosses the sole of the foot to reach the great toe. In part the muscle is is partly covered by the soleus; but in part it is superficial, and is in ficFah contact with the fascia. It rests on the fibula and the lower end of the tibia, and conceals the peroneal vessels. Along Muscles the inner side are the posterior tibial nerve and vessels ; and vesseic . i n . on sides. contiguous to the outer margin, but separated by the iascia, are the peronei muscles. The FLEXOR LONGUS DIGITORUM PEDIS is attached tO the Flexor longus posterior surface of the tibia from the popliteus to about digito- ruui lies three inches from the lower extremity, and it also takes on tibia; origin from the aponeurosis covering the tibialis posticus. Its tendon enters a partition in the annular ligament behind in the the sheath of the tibialis^ and escaped from the ligament ment; divides in the sole of the foot into tendons for the four outer toes. The muscle is narrow and pointed superiorly and isParti» A ... super placed beneath the soleus; but in the lower half it is in con- ficjai^ tact with the fascia, and the posterior tibial nerve and vessels soleus. lie on it. The deep surface rests on the tibia and the tibialis posticus. The tibialis posticus occupies superiorly the interval Tibialis between the bones of the leg, but it crosses inferiorly beneath intero:- the long flexor of the toes to reach the inner side of the foot, mem- The muscle arises from the posterior surface of the inter- osseous membrane, except about two inches below, and from the aponeurosis that covers it: from a surface of the tibia, contiguous to the interosseous membrane, which reaches from the head of the bone to rather below the attachment of the flexor longus digitorum ; and from the adjacent inner surface of the fibula for the three middle fifths of its length. In the lower fourth of the leg this muscle is directed beneath crosses ° beneath the flexor digitorum; and its tendon entering the inner Lhe .' flexor of space in the annular ligament, reaches the inner side of the the toes, foot to be inserted into the scaphoid and other bones. The tibialis is concealed by the aponeurosis before mentioned, Muscles . . and ves- and is overlapped by the neighbouring muscles, but in the sels in lower fourth of the leg it is placed between the tibia and the g°n with long flexor of the toes : on the muscle are the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. The upper part presents two712 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. pointed processes of attachment to the bones—that to the tibia being the highest, between which the anterior tibial vessels are directed forwards. The The aponeurosis covering the tibialis is attached laterally covered to the bones, but has a defined border inferiorly over the aponeu- muscle. By one surface it gives origin to the flexors of the rosls' toes, and by the other to the tibialis. The posterior tibial artery is one of the branches re- sulting from the bifurcation of the popliteal trunk. The Extent, artery extends from the lower border of the popliteus muscle to the lower part of the internal annular ligament, where it ends in two plantar branches for the sole of the Course, foot. At its origin the artery lies midway between the tibia and fibula, but as it approaches the lower part of the leg it gradually inclines inwards; and at its termination it is placed below the tibia, in the centre of the hollow between the heel and the inner ankle. Parts As far as the middle (in length) of the leg the vessel is the up- concealed by two muscles of the calf, viz. the gastrocnemius Fowe" and soleus ; but below that spot, as it lies between the tendo half* Achillis and the inner edge of the tibia, it is covered only by the integuments and the deep fascia. At its termination it Parts is beneath the annular ligament. For the greatest part of it. its extent the arterial trunk lies over the tibialis posticus, but afterwards on the flexor digitorum, and on the lower end of the tibia and the ankle joint. Veins. Venae comites (posterior tibial veins) closely surround Nerye. the vessel. The posterior tibial nerve is at first internal to the artery, but at the distance of one inch and a half it has crossed to the outer side, and retains that position throughout. Branch- This artery supplies branches to the muscles and the tibia, and a large peroneal trunk to the outer side of the leg. Muscu- Muscular branches supply the deep layer of muscles and the lar' soleus; an offset from a branch to the latter muscle pierces the fleshy attachment to the tibia, and ascends to the knee-joint. Nutri- A nutritious artery of the tibia is uncertain in its place of origin : tibia.t& passing through the tibialis, it enters the canal on the posterior surface of the bone, and ramifies in the interior. Commu- A communicating branch to the peroneal arises opposite the lower mcating. ^ of ^ tib^ and passes outwards beneath the flexor pollicis, to unite in an arch with a corresponding offset of the peroneal artery.713 POSTERIOR TIBIAL VESSELS. The peroneal artery is often as large as the posterior Pero- tibial, and arises from that vessel about one inch and a half artery if from the beginning. It takes the fibula as its guide, and lying close to the bone in the fibres of the flexor pollicis, JaS*in reaches the lower part of the interosseous membrane. At poinds, this spot it sends forwards a branch to the front of the leg (anterior peroneal), and continues over the articulation be- tween the tibia and fibula to the outer side of the foot, where it terminates in branches, and anastomoses with the tarsal Terrat- 7 nation and external plantar arteries. Two companion veins surround the artery. Branches. — Besides the anterior peroneal, it furnishes Jranch~ muscular, nutritious, and communicating offsets. Muscular branches are distributed to the soleus and the deep Jj£scu" flexors, and some turn round the fibula to the peronei muscles. The nutritious arterv is smaller than that to the tibia, and is *?utn; •* t 1 tious to transmitted through the tibialis posticus, to the aperture about the fibula, middle of the fibula. The anterior peroneal branch passes forwards through an aper- Anterior 1 1 . . peroneal ture in the lower part of the interosseous membrane, and is directed in front of the fibula to the dorsum and the outer part of the foot: on the front of the leg and foot it anastomoses with the external t°£ront ° m of foot. malleolar and tarsal branches of the anterior tibial artery. A communicating offset near the ankle joint joins in an arch, as ^j^"" before mentioned, with a similar branch of the posterior tibial ; sometimes there is a second arch between the same vessels. Peculiarities in the arteries. — The posterior tibial artery may be ®.i*,e1of smaller than usual, or absent; its place will then be supplied below changes, in the foot by a large peroneal artery, which will be directed in- wards at the lower end of the tibia, and either join the small tibial vessel, or run alone to the sole of the foot. The peroneal artery may arise from the popliteal, or from the JJjjgg"d anterior tibial artery. And its anterior peroneal branch may take ingot' the place of the anterior tibial artery on the dorsum of the foot. neal A compensating principle may be observed amongst the arteries g^ti of the foot as in those of the hand, by means of which the defi- tutions. ciency in one is supplied by an enlarged offset of another. The posterior tibial veins begin on the inner side of the Pos. foot by the union of the plantar veins ; they ascend, one on tibial each side of their artery, and unite with the anterior tibial trunks at the lower border of the popliteus, to form the large popliteal vein. They receive the peroneal veins, and branchesDISSECTION OF THE LEG. 714 corresponding to the offsets of the artery: branches connect them also with the saphenous veins. Poste- The posterior tibial nerve is a continuation of the internal tibial popliteal, and reaches, like the artery, from the lower border of the popliteus muscle to the interval between the os calcis and the inner malleolus. Whilst beneath the annular liga- Extent ment or somewhat higher than it, the nerve divides into the and con- internal and external plantar branches of the foot. Its con- nections. nectjons with surrounding parts are the same as those of the artery; but its position to the vessel changes, for it lies on Position the inner side of the posterior tibial artery above the origin artery, of the peroneal offset, but on the outer side thence to the ter- Branch- mination. Its lateral branches are chiefly muscular. Muscu- Muscular branches enter the deep flexors, and arise either at deep0 the seParate po^ts along the trunk, or together from the internal flexors, popliteal nerve. There is an offset for each muscle, except the popliteus, but the branch for the tibialis is the largest, and that for the flexor pollicis lies on the peroneal artery. Cuta- A cutaneous nerve of the sole of the foot pierces the internal an- the foot! nular ligament, and ends in the integument of the inner and under part of the heel; this nerve will be followed to its termination in the dissection of the foot. internal The internal annular ligament is placed between the heel annular ^e jnner ankle, and serves to confine the tendons of ment' the deep flexor muscles of the foot and toes. Attached by a Attach- pointed part to the internal malleolus, the fibres diverge from it, and are inserted into the os calcis. One border (upper) is continuous with the fascia of the leg; and the op- posite gives attachment to the abductor pollicis muscle of Pr°- „ the foot. From the under or deep surface are given off cesses of A ° ratePthe Processes> tnat separate, and form sheaths for the tendons, tendons, When the sheaths are opened, the innermost will be found to forming 1 7 sheaths; contain the tibialis posticus, which is lodged in a groove in their po- the malleolus : immediately behind this is another space for sition; f A the flexor digitorum; and about three quarters of an inch nearer the os calcis, is the interval in which the flexor lined by pollicis lies, contained in a groove in the astragalus. Each synovial # mem- sheath is lined bv a synovial membrane. brane Tibial Vessels beneath the ligament.—The posterior tibial vessels ^sels in passing beneath the ligament lie between the tendons of nerve tfiQ flexor pollicis and flexor digitorum, but rather nearer the715 THE PLANTAR FASCIA. latter. The artery supplies here small offsets to the tarsus, beneath and the ankle-joint. Occasionally the artery divides beneath merit! or even above the ligament. The nerve is nearer than the artery to the os calcis ; but it is sometimes bifurcated beneath the ligament, so that a nerve may lie on each side of the tibial vessels. Section V. THE SOLE OP THE FOOT. Position. — The foot is to be placed over a block of some Position thickness with the sole towards the dissector, and the part is part, to be made tense by fastening down, and separating the toes. Dissection. — The skin is to be raised as two flaps, inner Raise and outer, by means of one incision along the centre of thethe skm sole from the heel to the anterior part, and by another across the foot at the root of the toes. Afterwards the skin is to be removed from each toe, and the lateral digital vessels and nerves are to be dissected out at the same time. In the fat and dis. near the heel the student should follow the cutaneous nerve taneous of the sole of the foot (p. 714.) and trace out, at a little dis- nerves* tance from each border of the foot, some small branches of the plantar nerves and arteries. The subcutaneous fat of the sole of the foot is very subcu- abundant, and forms the thickest cushion over the parts of fatf°US the surface that press most on the ground in standing, viz. over the os calcis, and the line of the metatarso-phalangeal articulations. Dissection. — The fat should now be removed, and the Lay bare the plantar fascia be laid bare. Begin the dissection near the plantar heel, and follow forwards the fascia toward the toes, to each of which a process is to be traced. In the intervals between these processes the digital nerves and arteries will be found, and the covered by much cellular and fibrous tissue; but the vessels vessels and nerves to the inner side of the great toe, and the outer nerves, side of the little toe, pierce the fascia farther back than the rest. The student is next to dissect a transverse fibrous band Define between the toes, over the digital vessels and nerves ; and mint of the toes.DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. 716 when this has been defined, to remove the fat from the toes to see the sheaths of the tendons. Plantar Plantar fascia, — The special fascia of the sole of the fascia. foot is of a pearly white colour and great strength, and sends septa between the muscles. Its thickness varies in different parts of the foot; and from this circumstance, and from the existence of longitudinal depressions, where the two chief Division intermuscular septa are attached, the fascia is divided into a parts, central and two lateral parts. Central The central part, which is much the thickest, is pointed at its attachment to the os calcis, but widens and becomes thinner as it extends forwards. A slight depression, corre- sponding to an intermuscular septum, marks its limit on each divides side. Opposite the heads of the metatarsal bones it divides into five m 1 1 pieces, into five processes, which are continued onwards to the toes, one to each. If one of the processes be divided longitu- Termi. dinally, and its parts reflected to the sides, it will be seen to of the join, at the centre, the sheath of the flexor tendons, whilst pieces. . . it is attached on the sides to the margins of the metatarsal bone, and to the ligament uniting one of these bones to an- Arched other. Where the processes separate from one another the over ves- digital vessels and nerves and the lumbricales muscles be- sels. come superficial, and transverse fibres arch over the intervals between them. inner The lateral parts of the fascia are thinner than the central the piece. On the inner margin of the foot the fascia has but little strength, and is continued to the dorsum; but on the outer outer side it is increased in thickness, and presents a strong pdrt* band between the os calcis and the projection of the fifth metatarsal bone. Expose Dissection. — To examine the septa, a longitudinal incision e septa. ^ ma(je a]ong centre of the foot, and a transverse one near the calcaneum. On detaching the fascia from the subjacent flexor brevis digitorum, by carrying the scalpel from before backwards, the processes will appear on the sides of that muscle. Two The intermuscular septa pass down on the sides of the muscu- flexor brevis digitorum, and thus isolate the central muscle septa; in the superficial layer of the sole of the foot. The inner inner one lies between the short flexor and the abductor pollicis, and is perforated by the internal plantar nerve, and by theFIRST LAYER OF MUSCLES. 717 tendon of the flexor pollicis longus. The outer one, between and the short flexor and the abductor minimi digiti, is pierced by °uter' the digital nerve and artery for the outer side of the little toe. A piece of fascia reaches across the foot from the one septum to the other, beneath the short flexor. The transverse ligament crosses the roots of the toes, and Trans- ■ is contained in the skin forming the rudimentary web of the ligament foot. It is a band of fibres which is attached at the ex- toes, tremities to the great and little toes, and is connected with the sheath of the tendons of each of the others, as it passes over it. Beneath it are the digital nerves and vessels. The sheaths of the flexor tendons are similar to those of sheaths the fingers though not so distinct, and serve to confine the tendons, tendons against the grooved bones. The sheath is weak opposite the articulations between the phalanges, but is strengthened by a band opposite the centre of both the meta- tarsal and the next phalanx. Each is lubricated by a syno- vial membrane, and contains tendons of the long and short flexor muscles. Dissection, — In the sole of the foot the muscles are Dissect numerous, and have been arranged in four layers. To pre- Payer of pare the first layer all the fascia must be taken away, but this muscles' dissection must be made with some care lest the digital branches of the plantar nerves, which become superficial to the muscles towards the toes, should be injured. The ten- dons of the short flexor muscle are to be followed to the toes, and the sheaths in which they are contained must be opened. First layer of muscles.—In the first layer, which is now Muscles visible, are three muscles, viz., the flexor brevis digitorum, four the abductor pollicis, and abductor minimi digiti: the short thTeeS' flexor of the toes is in the centre of the foot, and each of the in the others is in a line with the toe on which it acts. The abductor pollicis is the most internal of the muscles Abduc- of the superficial layer, and is bifurcated at its posterior at- hS??1"' tachment. It takes origin from the larger tubercle on the origin; under part of the os calcis; from the internal annular liga- ment, and the tendinous structures on the inner side of the foot as far as the internal cuneiform bone; and from the plantar fascia. In front the muscle ends in a tendon, which is joined by fibres of the short flexor of the great toe, and is inserted, inSer. with the tendon of the flexor into the inner side of the base tlon;718 DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. cormec- of the metatarsal phalanx of the great toe. The cutaneous tions* r n i , . . surface of the muscle is in contact with the plantar fascia ; and the other touches the plantar vessels and nerves, the tendons of the long flexors of the toes, and the accessory muscle. Flexor The flexor brevis digitorum (flexor perforatus) arises brevis . . . v r J digito- posteriorly by a pointed tendinous process from the inner side of the larger tubercle of the os calcis, and by fleshy fibres from the plantar fascia and its septa. About the centre of the foot the muscle ends in four small tendons; these are directed forwards over the tendons of the long flexor, and divides entering the sheaths of the four smaller toes, are inserted tendons into the middle phalanges. In the sheath of the toe, the toes; tendon of this muscle lies at first on that of the long flexor these are (in this position); but opposite the middle of the metatarsal phalanx it is slit for the passage of the other, and is attached by two processes to the sides of the middle phalanx. The short flexor of the toes is contained in a sheath of the plantar Connec- fascia, and occupies the middle of the foot: it conceals the tendon of the long flexor of the toes, the accessory muscle, and the external plantar vessels and nerve. Abduc- The abductor minimi digiti has a wide origin behind little toe. from the outer and inner tubercles of the os calcis, and from the plantar fascia and the external intermuscular septum. Origin It ends anteriorly in a tendon which is inserted, with the and in- . sertion. short flexor of the little toe, into the outer side of the base of the metatarsal phalanx of that toe. The muscle lies along is at the outer border of the foot, and conceals the flexor acces- side of m 7 the foot, sorius, and the tendon of the peroneus longus. On its inner side are the external plantar vessels and nerve. Dissect Dissection. — To bring into view the second layer of plantar ° J vessels muscles and the plantar vessels and nerves, the muscles al- and 1 r~i nerves, ready examined must be reflected. Cut through the flexor brevis at the os calcis, and as it is raised, notice a branch of nerve and artery to it; divide the abductor minimi digiti near its origin, and turning it to the outer side of the foot, seek a small nerve and vessel to it close to the bone. The abductor pollicis can be drawn aside if it is necessary, but it may remain uncut till afterwards. Now the plantar vessels and nerves are to be followed forwards to their termination, and backwards to their origin ; and the tendons of the longPLANTAR VESSELS AND NERVES. 719 flexors of the toes, the accessory muscle, and the small lum- bricales, should be freed from cellular membrane. The plantar arteries are the terminal branches of the Two plantar posterior tibial trunk. They are two in number, and are arteries: named external and internal from their relative position in the sole of the foot. Of the two the former is the larger ; inner and it forms the plantar arch of arteries, from which digital outer, branches are furnished to the toes. The internal artery is commonly inconsiderable in size, internal J J 7 small ; and is directed forwards, under cover of the abductor pollicis, to the root of the great toe : here it ends either in small ends on ' _ . side of branches to the side of the foot, or m digital branches to the foot, the two inner toes which anastomose with the external plantar artery. The external artery has an arched course in the foot, with External . artery the concavity of the arch turned inwards, and supplies has . m 11 curved branches to the toes. Starting from the inner part of the course; foot, the vessel is first directed outwards across the sole, and then obliquely forwards towards the root of the great toe, or to the side on which it began, so that the vessel twice crosses the foot. In the first half of its extent, the artery is com- paratively superficial, and extends from the inner side of the partly calcaneum to the base of the metatarsal bone of the little ficFai* toe; in the other half it lies deeply in the foot, in contact partly with the interosseous muscles, and forms the plantar arch deep' between the little and the great toe. Only the first part of the artery is now laid bare; the re- Super- maining part, that supplies the digital branches, will be part, noticed after the examination of the third layer of muscles (p. 719.). As far as the metatarsal bone of the little toe, Connec- the vessel is concealed by the abductor pollicis and the flexortl0ns* brevis digitorum, but for a short distance near its termination it lies in the interval between the last muscle and the abductor minimi digiti. In this extent it is placed on the os veins calcis, and the flexor accessorius; and it is accompanied nerve, by venas comites, and the external plantar nerve. It sup- plies offsets to the muscles between which it lies, and some Branch- branches to the outer side of the foot for anastomosis with the peroneal artery. The plantar nerves are derived from the bifurcation of pian^r the posterior tibial nerve behind the inner ankle. They are afs^twa,DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. 720 two in number, like the arteries, and have the same con- nections as those vessels, for each accompanies a plantar but the artery; but the larger nerve is found with the smaller inner is . n -, * largest, blood-vessel. Internal The internal plantar nerve courses with its artery be- nerve to three tween the short flexor and the abductor pollicis, and divides a half, into four digital branches for the supply of both sides of the three inner toes, and half the fourth ; it thus resembles the median nerve in the hand in the number and distribution of other its digital branches. Offsets are given by it to the short es. flexor and the abductor pollicis, and a few superficial twigs perforate the fascia. Digital The digital nerves have a numerical designation, and the nerves aredi- first is nearest the inner border of the foot. The branch to vided ex- cept the inner side of the great toe is undivided, but the others ' , are bifurcated at the clefts between the toes. Muscular muscular branch- branches are furnished by the nerves before they reach the toes ; thus, the first (most internal) supplies the flexor brevis pollicis; the second, the inner lumbrical muscle; and the third, the next lumbrical muscle. give cu- On the toes. — Each of the three outer nerves, being divided at the spot mentioned, supplies cutaneous offsets to the contiguous sides of two toes, and to the cutis beneath and ar- the nail; and articular filaments are distributed to the joints, ticular . ,i n offsets, as m the fingers. External The externalplantamerve furnishes the remaining digital nerve to one toe nerves, viz., to both sides of the little toe, and the outer side and a half; of the next, and ends in the deep muscles of the sole of the foot. This nerve corresponds in its arrangement to the ulnar nerve in the hand. It has the same course as the external has su- plantar artery, and divides at the outer margin of the flexor and deep brevis digitorum into a superficial and a deep portion: — part* the former gives origin to two digital nerves; but the latter accompanies the arch of the plantar artery into the foot, and will be afterwards dissected. Whilst the external plantar nerve is concealed by the short flexor of the toes, it Branch- gives muscular branches to the abductor minimi digiti and the flexor accessorius. Two The digital branches of the external plantar nerve are but branches two, and resemble those of the ulnar nerve in the hand, from su- .g un(j^v^e(j . |t is distributed to the outer side of the721 SECOND LAYER OF MUSCLES. little toe, and gives branches to the flexor brevis minimi perfkiai digiti, and the interosseous muscles of the fourth space.part* The other bifurcates at the cleft between the two outer toes, 0ne is midl- and supplies their collateral surfaces: this nerve com-vided. municates in the foot with the last digital branch of the internal plantar nerve. On the toes. — On the sides of the toes the digital nerves Distri- have the same distribution as those from the other plantar like others. trunk. Dissection. — To complete the preparation of the second Lay layer of muscles, the origin of the abductor pollicis should second be detached from the os calcis, and the muscle should be muscles, turned inwards. The internal plantar nerve and artery, and the superficial portion of the external plantar nerve, are to be cut across and thrown forwards; but the external plan- tar artery and the nerve with it are not to be injured. All the cellular membrane and the fascia are to be taken away from near the toes. Second layer of muscles.—In this layer are the tendons Tendons of the two flexor muscles at the back of the leer, viz., the cies of the flexor longus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis, which second cross one another: connected with the former, soon after it enters the foot, is an accessory muscular slip, and at its division into pieces are four slender muscles named lum- bricales. The tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, whilst Tendon entering the foot beneath the annular ligament, lies on the flexor of internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. In the foot it is directed obliquely towards the centre of the sole, where it is joined by the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis and the accessory muscle, and divides into tendons for the four outer divides toes. Each tendon enters the sheath of the toe with, and four, beneath a tendon from the flexor brevis. About the centre These enter of the metatarsal phalanx the tendon of the long flexor deaths is transmitted through the other, and passes onwards to be inserted into the base of the ungual phalanx. The tendon t(?es and ~ 1 pierce of the flexor longus digitorum is sometimes increased in size ^eo^er ^ ° tendons. by its junction with that of the long flexor of the great toe. The lumbricales are four small muscles between the F°ur lumbri- tendons 01 the flexor longus digitorum. Each arises from caies. two tendons, with the exception of the most internal; and ^em to 3 a722 DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. toes and this last is connected with the inner side of the tendon to flexor, the second toe. Each is inserted into the tibial side of the base of the metatarsal phalanx in the four outer toes; and from the insertion an expansion is prolonged to the dorsum of the phalanx to join the aponeurotic covering on it. These muscles decrease in size from the inner to the outer side of the foot. Flexor The accessorius muscle has two heads of origin: — one is acces- ° sorius tendinous, and is attached to the under or outer surface of the os calcis, and the ligamentum longum plantas ; the other is large and fleshy and springs from the inner or concave sur- is joined face of the calcaneum. The fibres end in aponeurotic bands, flexor that ioin the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum about longus. J . . the centre of the foot, so as to form a kind of groove for it. The muscle is bifurcated behind, and the heads of origin are separated by the long plantar ligament. On it are the ex- ternal plantar vessels and nerve, and the flexor brevis digi- torum conceals it. inser- The tendon of the flexor longus pollicis in the sole of tion of tendon the foot is deeper than that of the flexor longus digitorum, of flexor . . ... pollicis. to which it is united by a strong tendinous process: it is then directed to the root of the great toe, enters the digital sheath, and is inserted into the base of the ungual phalanx. Between the calcaneum and the internal malleolus this tendon lies in a groove in the astragalus; and in the foot, in a groove below the tubercle (sustentaculum tali) of the os calcis. Dissect Dissection.—For the dissection of the third layer of layer^of muscles, the accessorius and the tendons of the long flexor are to be cut through near the calcaneum, and turned towards the toes ; whilst raising the tendons the external plantar nerve and artery are not to be interfered with, and two small nerves to the two external lumbricales are to be looked for. Afterwards the cellular membrane is to be taken from the muscles now brought into view. Third Third layer of muscles.—Only the short muscles of the layer of , . muscles, great and the little toe enter into this layer. On the meta- tarsal bone of the great toe the flexor brevis pollicis lies, and external to it is the adductor pollicis; on the metatarsal bone of the little toe is the flexor brevis minimi digiti. Position. Crossing the heads of the metatarsal bones is the trans-723 THIRD LAYER OF MUSCLES. versalis pedis muscle. The fleshy mass between the ad- ductor pollicis and the short flexor of the little toe consists of the interossei muscles of the next layer. The flexor brevis pollicis muscle is tendinous and Flexor • t • brevis pointed at the posterior part, but bifurcated m front. It is poinds 1 r r .is bifur- attached posteriorly to the cuboid bone and to a prolongation cated from the tendon of the tibialis posticus to the external and joins cuneiform bones. Near the front of the metatarsal bone of muscles, the great toe it divides into two heads, which are inserted into the sides of the base of the metatarsal phalanx. Resting on the muscle, and in the interval between the heads, is the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. The inner head joins the abductor, and the outer is united with the adductor pollicis. A sesamoid bone is developed in the tendon con- nected with each head. The adductor pollicis, which is larger than the pre- Adduc- ceding muscle, and external to it, arises from the sheath of iicisPOl~ the tendon of the peroneus longus, and from the bases of the third and fourth metatarsal bones. Anteriorly the muscle is united with the outer head of the short flexor, and is in- joins serted with it into the base of the metatarsal phalanx of the head of great toe. To the inner side is the flexor brevis; and beneath flexor. the outer border the external plantar artery and nerve are pi°ntar Covers ' plant; directed inwards. arch* The transversalis pedis is placed transversely over the Trans- heads of the metatarsal bones. Its origin is by fleshy pedis bundles from the four outer bones (frequently not from the little toe); and its insertion is united with that of the adduc- tor pollicis. The cutaneous surface is covered by the ten- attached dons, and the vessels and nerves of the toes ; and the oppo- of the site surface is in contact with the interossei muscles. This muscle is sometimes described as a part of the adductor pol- licis. The FLEXOR BREVIS MINIMI DIGITI is a Small narrow Flexor muscle ; it lies on the metatarsal bone of the little toe, and digiti iS resembles one of the interossei. Attached to the metatarsal inter- bone, and slightly to the sheath of the peroneus longus, it is inserted into the outer side of the base of the metatarsal pha- lanx of the same toe, and into the inferior ligament of the metatarsophalangeal articulation. Dissection.—In order that the deep vessels and nerves Dissect 3 a 2DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. 724 the deep may be seen, the flexor brevis and adductor pollicis are to be and cut through at their posterior part, and thrown towards the toes, but the nerves supplying them are to be preserved. Beneath the adductor is the plantar arch, and the external plantar nerve, with their branches; and in the first inter- osseous space is the part of the dorsal artery of the foot that enters the sole. All these vessels and nerves require careful cleaning. The muscles projecting between the metatarsal bones are the interossei. Arch of The plantar arch is the part of the external plantar artery plantar that extends obliquely from the base of the metatarsal bone artery. ^ ^ jj^tle toe to the back of the first interosseous space (p. 719.) : internally the arch is completed by a communi- Extent eating branch from the dorsal artery of the foot. It is placed nections across the tarsal ends of the metatarsal bones in contact with muscles, the interossei, being between the third and fourth layers of muscles in the foot. From the front or convexity of the Branch- arch the digital branches are supplied, and from the opposite es* side small muscular branches arise. From the under part P0Ste- are given off three small arteries, the posterior perforating, foratmg" which pass to the dorsum of the foot through the three outer intermetatarsal spaces, and anastomose with the interosseous branches of the anterior tibial artery. Digital The digital branches are four in number, and supply both to three sides of the three outer toes, and half of the next. The one toes and to the outer side of the little toe is single ; the others lie in next. the three outer metatarsal spaces, and bifurcate in front to Anterior supply the contiguous sides of two toes. Where they divide, mgoff^ they send small communicating branches — anterior perfo- sets' rating, to the interosseous arteries on the dorsum of the foot. Distri- On the toes. — On the sides of the toes the disposition of bution. ^e arteries is like that in the hand:—they extend to the last phalanx, where they unite in an arch, and give offsets to the ball of the toe; and near the front of both the metatarsal and the next phalanx, they form anastomotic loops beneath the tendons, from which the phalangeal articulations are supplied. Ending The dorsal artery of the foot enters the sole at the pos- dorsaf terior part of the first (inner) intermetatarsal space, and sup- theToot; plies digital offsets to both sides of the great toe and to halfPLANTAR VESSELS AND NERVE. 725 3 a 3 the next, in the same manner as the radial artery in the hand is distributed to one digit and a half. Besides these, it fur- nishes a communicating branch to join the plantar arch. The digital branch (art. magna pollicis) extends to the its digital front of the §pace, and divides into collateral branches for the great toe and the next. Near the front of the metatarsal bone it sends inwards, beneath the flexor muscles, the digital branch for the inner side of the great toe. These arteries have the same arrangement along the toes on the ° digits. as the other digital branches. The deep branch of the external plantar nerve passes with External the arch of the artery, and ends internally in the adductor nerve pollicis. In addition it furnishes branches to all the inter- the deep . . muscles. ossei, one or both in the external space excepted ; to the transversalis pedis; and to the two external lumbrical muscles. Dissection. — It will be needful to remove the transver- Dissec- salis pedis muscle, to see a ligamentous band across the heads of the metatarsal bones. The transverse metatarsal ligament is a strong fibrous Trans- band, like that in the hand (p. 314.), that connects together meta- tarsal li- the anterior extremities of all the metatarsal bones. A thin gament. fascia that covers the interossei muscles is connected to its hinder part. It is concealed by the transversalis pedis, and by the tendons, vessels, and nerves of the toes. Dissection. — To complete the dissection of the last layer Dissect of muscles, the flexor brevis minimi digiti may be detached li^of and thrown forwards. Then the metatarsal ligament is to des.mus* be divided between the bones, the knife being carried directly backwards in the centre of each interosseous space except the first, in order that the two interossei muscles may be separated one from another. The fascia covering these muscles should be taken away, and the branches of the external plantar nerve to them dissected out. All the inter- ossei are visible in the sole of the foot. Fourth layer of muscles.—In the fourth and last layer Fourth of the foot are contained the interossei muscles, and the muscles, tendons of the tibialis posticus and peroneus longus muscles. The interossei muscles are situate in the intervals be- interos- tween the metatarsal bones : their arrangement corresponds S61'are closely to that of the interossei in the hand, and like themDISSECTION OF THE FOOT. 726 plantar they are classed into two sets, plantar and dorsal. Seven in sal. number, there are three plantar and four dorsal; and two are found in each space, except in the internal one. Three The plantar interossei belong to the three outer meta- plantar ° for three tarsal bones : they arise from the under and inner surfaces outer ^ toes. of those bones, and are inserted into the tibial side of the base of the metatarsal phalanx of the same toes; and an expansion is continued from each to the extensor tendon on the dorsum of the phalanx. These muscles are smaller than the dorsal, and are placed more in the sole of the foot, dorsal dorsal interossei, one in each space, arise from the lie be- lateral surfaces of the two bones between which they lie, and tween J 7 the are inserted into a particular side of the metatarsal phalanx bones; 1 A of certain toes :—Thus, the two internal muscles are attached to the second toe, one to each side ; the next to the outer side of the third toe, and the remaining one to the outer side of the fourth toe. An expansion is continued from the tendons to those of the extensors on the dorsum of the toes phalanges ; and the posterior perforating arteries pierce the into. hinder extremities of the muscles. These small muscles will be partly seen on the dorsum of the foot. Action The attachment of the dorsal muscles to the toes may be muscles, remembered by considering them abductors as in the hand (p. 314.) from the middle line of the secondMigit : the two outer muscles will draw their respective toes from the rest, and the two connected with the second digit will move it to the right or the left of the line referred to. Trace Dissection.— Follow the tendon of the tibialis posticus deeV 6 muscle from its position behind the inner malleolus to its tendons. insertjon jnto ^e scaphoid bone, and trace the numerous processes that it sends forwards and outwards. Open also the fibrous sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus, which crosses from the outer to the inner side of the foot. Insertion The tendon of the tibialis posticus, after leaving the don of groove in the inner malleolus, is continued forwards over posticus, the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-koint, and beneath the articulation between the astragalus and the os scaphoides, and is inserted into the prominence of the latter bone. From its insertion processes are continued to many of the other bones of the foot. One is directed backwards to the margin of the groove in the os calcis for the tendon of the flexor727 SUPERFICIAL VEINS AND NERVES. longus pollicis. Two offsets are directed forwards :—one is prolonged to the internal cuneiform bone; the other, much the largest, is attached to the middle and outer cuneiform, to the os cuboides, and to the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. Where the tendon is placed be- neath the articulation of the astragalus, it contains a sesa- moid bone, or a fibro-cartilage. The tendon of the peroneus longus muscle turns round insertion of ten- the cuboid bone, and placed in the groove on the under sur- don of . . . peroneus face, is continued inwards to be inserted into the internal longus. cuneiform bone, and the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe; it sends a process also to the base of the second metatarsal bone. In the sole of the foot it is contained in a sheath which is formed, for the most part, by the fibres of the long plantar ligament prolonged to the tarsal ends of the third and fourth metatarsal bones. A separate synovial membrane lubricates the sheath. Where the tendon turns round the cuboid bone it is thickened, and contains fibro- cartilage or a sesamoid bone. Section VI. the front of the leg. Position. — The limb is to be raised to a convenient height position by putting blocks beneath the knee, and the foot is to be ifmb? extended in order that the muscles on the front of the leg may be put on the stretch. Dissection. — To enable the dissector to raise the skin Raise from the leg and foot, one incision should be made along the the skm' middle line, from the knee to the toes, and this should be intersected by cross cuts at the ankle and the web of the foot. After the flaps of skin are reflected, the cutaneous vessels seek the and nerves are to be looked for. At the inner part of the ousane" leg are some filaments from the great saphenous nerve, and "hTieg"1 at the outer side, others from the cutaneous ramifications of the external popliteal nerve. Perforating the fascia in the lower third, on the anterior aspect, is.the musculo-cutaneous nerve, whose branches should be pursued to the toes. 3 a 4728 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. on the On the dorsum of the foot is an arch of veins, which ends v°e°sseisth at the sides in the saphenous veins. On the outer side is nerves, the short saphenous nerve; and in the interval between the great toe and the next, is the cutaneous part of the anterior tibial nerve. The nerves should be traced to the ends of the toes by removing the integuments. After the several vessels and nerves are dissected, the fat is to be taken away, in order that the fascia may be seen. Cutane- The venous arch on the dorsum of the foot has its con- ous . veins, vexity turned forwards, and receives digital branches from the toes; but at its concavity it is joined by small veins from the instep. Internally and externally it joins the saphenous veins. internal The internal saphenous vein begins at the inner side of saphe- nous. the great toe, and in the arch of veins; it ascends along the inner side of the foot, and in front of the inner ankle to the inner part of the leg, where it has been before seen (650.). It receives branches from the inner side and the sole of the foot. External The external saphenous vein begins on the outside of the nous?" little toe and the foot, and in the venous arch; it is then continued below the outer ankle to the back of the leg (p. 706.). source Cutaneous Nerves, All the superficial nerves on the cutane- front of the leg and foot are derived from branches of the nerves, popliteal trunks, viz., from the musculocutaneous and ante- rior tibial nerves of the external popliteal, and from the external saphenous nerve of the internal popliteal. Some inconsiderable offsets to the sides of the leg from the internal and external saphenous do not require separate notice. Muscu- The musculo-cutaneous nerve has a cutaneous termination, and its n°eousta~ place of destination is the dorsum of the foot and the toes. Per- ce?tainS f°ratm© the fascia in the lower third of the leg, it divides into two toes; principal branches (inner and outer), which give digital nerves to the sides of all the toes, except the outer part of the little toe and ^divides the contiguous sides of the great toe and the next. The digital lnt0 branches may be traced in the integument as far as the end of the last phalanx. inner The inner branch communicates with the internal saphenous and nerve, and supplies the inner side of the foot and great toe : it also joins the anterior tibial nerve, outer b. The outer branch divides into three nerves, which lie over the branch.FASCIA OF THE FRONT OF THE LEG. 729 three outer interosseous spaces, and bifurcate at the web of the foot for the supply of the contiguous sides of the four toes cor- responding to those spaces: it joins the external saphenous nerve on the outer part of the foot. The anterior tibial nerve becomes cutaneous in the first inter- Anterior osseous space, and is distributed to the opposed sides of the great where toe and the next. The musculo-cutaneous nerve joins it, and found* sometimes assists in supplying the same toes. The external saphenous nerve comes from the back of the le£ External saphe- below the outer ankle, and is continued along the foot to the out- nous, side of the little toe. Occasionally it supplies both sides of the little toe, and part or more of the next. The fascia of the front of the leg is thickest near the knee- peep joint, where it gives origin to muscles. It is fixed internally the leg; and externally to the tibia and fibula. Intermuscular septa attach- are prolonged from the deep surface, and one of these, that is attached to the fibula, separates the muscles on the front from those on the outer side of the leg. Superiorly the fascia is connected to the heads of the bones, but inferiorlj it is continued to the dorsum of the foot. Above and below trans- the ankle-joint are some strong transverse fibres, marking fibres at the position of the two parts of the anterior annular liga- ankle, ment; and below the end of the fibula is another band, the external annular ligament. Dissection. — The fascia is to be removed from the leg, Take and the dorsum of the foot, but the thickened band of the SscL 16 annular ligament above and below the end of the tibia, is to be left. On separating the fascia from the anterior muscles, let the edge of the scalpel be directed upwards. In like manner the fascia may be taken from the peronei muscles on the outside of the fibula, but without destroying the band below that bone. On the dorsum of the foot the dorsal vessels with their CIean nerves nerve, and the short extensor of the toes are to be dissected : and ves- sels. and, in the leg, the anterior tibial nerve and vessels are to be followed into their intermuscular space and then cleaned. The anterior annular ligament consists of two parts, Anterior upper and lower, which confine the muscles in their position : iiga-lar the former serving to bind the fleshy part to the bones ofment' the leg, and the latter to keep down the tendons on the dorsum of the foot.DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 730 its upper The upper part is attached laterally to the bones of the ' leg, and possesses a separate sheath for the tibialis anticus. and The lower part is in front of the tarsal bones. It is in- lower ■* part. serted externally into the upper surface of the os calcis, in front of the depression for the interosseous ligament; and, internally, by a thin and widened piece into the plantar Sheaths fascia and the inner malleolus. In this part of the ligament each!m there are three sheaths: the inner one is for the tibialis anticus; the next for the extensor pollicis; and the outer one for the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus. Sepa- rate synovial membranes lubricate the sheaths. External The external annular ligament is attached on the one side annular ^ ^e outer malleolus, and on the other to the outer surface ment* of the os calcis; it contains the tendons of the peronei muscles in one sheath, which is lined by a synovial mem- brane. Muscles The muscles on the front of the leg are three in front of number; they are flexors of the ankle and extensors of the and foot, toes. The large muscle next the tibia is the tibialis anticus ; that next the fibula, the extensor longus digitorum, — its lower part with a separate tendon to the fifth metatarsal bone being called peroneus tertius; and the one between these, in the lower half of the leg, is the extensor pollicis. On the dorsum of the foot is only one muscle, the extensor brevis digitorum. Tibialis The tibialis anticus reaches the tarsus: it is thick and amicus, flggky jn tne Upper? but tendinous in the lower part of the origin, leg- It arises from the outer tuberosity and the two upper thirds of the tibia, from the contiguous part of the interos- seous ligament, and from the fascia of the leg and the inter- muscular septum between it and the next muscle. After passing through the innermost compartment in the annular inser- ligament, the tendon is inserted into the under surface of the tlon' internal cuneiform bone, and sends forwards a process to the Parts metatarsal bone of the great toe. The muscle is subfascial, beneath jt j«eg ^ grgt external to the tibia, resting on the interosseous and on membrane, but it is then placed successively over the end the sides. 0f tne tibia, the ankle-joint, and the inner line of the tarsal bones. The outer border touches the extensor muscles of the toes, and partly conceals the anterior tibial vessels as low as the foot.MUSCLES IN FRONT OF THE LEG. 731 The EXTENSOR PROPR1US POLLICIS is deeply placed at its Extensor origin between the former muscle and the extensor longus digitorum, but its tendon becomes superficial on the dorsum of the foot. The muscle arises from the three middle fifths of the anterior surface of the fibula, and from the interosseous attached to hbula, ligament for the same distance. The tendon comes to the surface through a sheath in the lower part of the annular ligament, and then continues over the inner part of the tarsus to be inserted into the last phalanx of the great toe. The anterior tibial vessels are to the inner side of theam* great toe, muscle as low as the sheath in the ligament, but afterwards crosses ° 7 the to the outer side of the tendon, so that they are crossed by it vessels, beneath the ligament. The EXTENSOR LONGUS DIGITORUM, like the tibial muscle, Extensor longus is fleshy in the leg and tendinous on the foot. Its origin is arises from the tuberosity of the tibia (the outer part), from the fibula; head and three-fourths of the anterior surface of the fibula, from a small part (about an inch above) of the interosseous membrane, and from the fascia of the leg and the intermus- cular septum on each side. The tendon enters its sheath in inserted . into four the annular ligament with the peroneus tertius, and divides outer into four pieces. Below the ligament these tendons are continued to the four outer toes, and are inserted by pro- cesses into the middle and ungual phalanges. On the phalanges of the toes the tendons have the same Arrange- arrangement as in the hand. For, on the metatarsal pha- the ten- lanx, the tendons of the long and short extensor join with the toes, prolongations from the interossei and lumbricales to form a membranous expansion. At the further end of this phalanx the expansion divides into three parts — a central and two lateral; the central piece is inserted into the base of the middle phalanx, while the lateral ones unite at the front of that bone, and are fixed into the ungual phalanx. In the leg the muscle is placed between the peroneus on connec- the one side, and the tibialis anticus and extensor proprius the8 °f pollicis on the other; it lies on the fibula, and on the lower muscle< end of the tibia and the ankle-joint. On the foot the tendons rest on the extensor brevis digitorum; and the vessels and nerve of this part are internal to them. The peroneus tertius may be considered a part of the pero- extensor longus digitorum, from which it is seldom separate tertius732 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. is the at its origin. It arises from the lower fourth of the anterior part of surface of the fibula, from the lower end of the interosseous tensor, ligament, and from the intermuscular septum between it and the peroneal muscles; and it is inserted by a tendon into the tarsal end of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. This muscle has the same connections in the leg as the lower part of the long extensor, and is contained in the same space in the annular ligament. Anterior The anterior tibial artery extends from the bifurcation tibial artery; of the popliteal trunk to the front of the ankle-joint, where it loses the name tibial, and becomes the dorsal artery of the course foot. The course of the artery is at first forwards, through and ex- _ ' tent; the aperture m the upper part 01 the interosseous membrane, and then along the front of that membrane and the tibia to the foot. A line from the inner side of the head of the fibula to the centre of the ankle will mark the position of the vessel, connec- In the upper third of the leg the artery lies between the with tibialis anticus and the extensor longus digitorum; and in around, the lower two thirds between the tibial muscle and the extensor proprius pollicis, but towards the lower end of the vessel, this last muscle becomes superficial, and crosses to its inner side. The artery rests on the interosseous mem- brane in two thirds of its extent, and is overlapped by the fleshy bellies of the contiguous muscles, so that it is at a great depth from the surface; but it is in front of the tibia and the ankle-joint in the lower third, and is comparatively superficial, for it here lies between only the tendons of the muscles. Position Vense comites closely entwine around the artery, covering it very closely with cross branches on the upper part. The and anterior tibial nerve approaches the tibial vessels about the nerve' middle third of the leg, and continues with them, crossing once or twice. At the lower end of the artery the nerve is on the outer side, branch- Branches. — In the leg the anterior tibial artery furnishes mostly muscular offsets, but near the knee and ankle-joints other named branches take origin, and a cutaneous branch accompanies the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Recur- A recurrent branch leaves the trunk as soon as it appears above rent* the interosseous membrane, and ascends in the tibialis anticus733 DORSAL ARTERY OF THE FOOT. muscle to the knee-joint. On the joint it anastomoses with the other articular arteries. Malleolar arteries (internal and external) arise near the ankle- Maiie- joint, and, as their name expresses, are distributed over the ends of the tibia and fibula. The internal is the least regular in size inner and origin: the external anastomoses with the anterior peroneal and ° outer. artery. Some small articular hranches are supplied from the lower end of Articu- the artery to the ankle-joint. The dorsal artery of the foot is the continuation of the Dorsal anterior tibial, and extends from the front of the ankle-joint extent' to the posterior part of the first interosseous space; at this course; interval it passes downwards between the heads of the inter- osseous muscle, to end in the sole as before described (p. 724.). The artery is supported by the inner row of the tarsus, connec- viz., the astragalus and the scaphoid and cuneiform bones; and is covered by the integuments and the deep fascia, but near its termination it is crossed by the inner tendon of the extensor brevis muscle. The tendon of the extensor pollicis is on the inner side; and that of the extensor brevis digi- torum on the outer side, except for about half an inch before the artery dips into the sole of the foot, at which spot this tendon crosses to the inner side of the vessel. The veins position have the same position with respect to the artery as in the andems leg, and the nerve is external to it. Branches. — Offsets are given to the bones and the liga- Branch- ments of the foot: those from the outer side of the vesseles* have received the names tarsal and metatarsal from their distribution. A small interosseous branch is likewise fur- nished to the first intermetatarsal space. The tarsal branch arises opposite the scaphoid bone, and runs Tarsal, beneath the extensor brevis digitorum to the outer side of the foot, where it divides into twigs that inosculate with the metatarsal, plantar, and peroneal arteries : it supplies offsets to the extensor muscle, beneath which it lies. The metatarsal branch takes an arched course to the outer part Metatar- of the foot, near the base of the metatarsal bones and beneath the sal' extensor muscle, and its terminal branches anastomose with the external plantar and tarsal arteries. From the convexity of this arch, which is turned forwards, three which interosseous arteries are furnished to the three outer spaces : these gIves m"734 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. terosse- supply the interosseous muscles, and divide at the cleft of the toes into two dorsal collateral branches. At the fore part and the back of each space the interosseous arteries join the deep vessels in the sole of the foot by means of the anterior and posterior perforating arteries. First The first interosseous branch (arteria dorsalis pollicis pedis) arises seous. from the trunk of the artery as this is about to leave the dorsum of the foot; it extends forwards in the space between the first two toes, and is distributed like the other interosseous branches of the metatarsal artery. Anterior The anterior tibial veins have the same extent and con- veins, nections as the artery they accompany. They have their usual position along the artery, one on each side, around which they form loops by cross branches ; they end in the popliteal vein. The branches they receive correspond to those of the artery ; and they communicate with the internal saphenous vein. Varie- Peculiarities in size. — The anterior tibial may be small, or even anterior wanting, in which case the place of its diminished or deficient part tibial wiH be supplied by the posterior tibial or the peroneal artery. In position. — On the dorsum of the foot it is often removed farther outwards than the direction of a line from the centre of the ankle to the posterior part of the first interosseous space, and dor-- Substitution. — The place of the dorsal artery of the foot may be telyT" taken by a large anterior peroneal artery. Divide Dissection.—To examine the extensor brevis digitorum on sorion- the dorsum of the foot, cut through the tendons of the gus' extensor longus and peroneus tertius below the annular ligament, and throw them towards the toes. The attachment of the muscle to the os calcis should be defined. Exten- The extensor brevis digitorum is a short thin muscle vis " on the dorsum of the foot. It arises from the outer surface of the os calcis in front of the groove for the peroneus brevis muscle, and from the anterior annular ligament (the sends lower band); the muscle ends in four tendons, which spring tendons to four from as many fleshy bellies, and are inserted into the four inner it* toes; inner toes. The tendon to the great toe has a distinct attachment to the base of the metatarsal phalanx; but the rest are united to the outer side of the tendons of the long extensor, and assist to form the expansion on the metatarsal onfStehesen Pnalanx (P* 731.). The muscle lies on the tarsus, and is735 NERVES TO THE FRONT OF THE LEG. partly concealed by the tendons of the long extensor. Its inner tendon crosses the dorsal artery of the foot. Dissection,— The branches of artery and nerve that are Cut beneath the extensor brevis will be laid bare by dividing extensor that muscle near its front, and turning it upwards. By cutting through the lower band of the annular ligament over the tendon of the extensor pollicis, and throwing outwards the external half of it, the different sheaths of the ligament, the attachment of it to the os calcis, and the origin of the extensor brevis digitorum from it may be observed. The anterior tibial and musculo-cutaneous nerves are to be Follow followed upwards to their origin from the external popliteal; nerves, and a small branch from the same nerve is to be traced through the tibialis anticus to the knee-joint. Nerves to the front of the leg.—Between the fibula Nerves of the and the peroneus longus muscle the external popliteal nerve front of divides into the recurrent articular, musculo-cutaneous, and anterior tibial branches. The recurrent articular branch is very small, and takes Recur- the course of the artery of the same name through the tibialis anticus muscle to the knee-joint. The musculo-cutaneous nerve is beneath the fascia in the Muscu- . . lo-cuta- first part of its course, and is continued between the extensor neous longus digitorum and the peronei muscles to the lower third of the leg, where it pierces the fascia, and is distributed to the dorsum of the foot and the toes (p. 728.). Before the supplies VA ' peronei. nerve becomes cutaneous, it furnishes branches to the peronei muscles. The anterior tibial nerve (interosseous) is directed inwards Antprior beneath the extensor longus digitorum, and reaches the with the artery of the same name about the middle of the leg. From this spot it takes the course of the vessel along the foot to the first interosseous space, in which it ends on the surface (see p. 729.). In the leg it crosses the anterior tibial artery once or more, but its position on the foot is external to the dorsal artery. Branches.—In the leg the nerve supplies the anterior Branch- tibial muscle and the extensor of the toes. On the dorsum es* of the foot it gives a considerable branch to the short ex- tensor ; this becomes enlarged, and gives offsets to the articulations of the foot.736 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. External Muscles on the outer part of the leg. — Only two of the muscles are found in this situation : they are named peronei leg* from their attachment to the fibula, and are distinguished by terms (longus and brevis) expressive of their relative length. Intermuscular processes of fascia, which are attached to the fibula, isolate these muscles from others, viz. from the soleus and flexor pollicis behind, and from the extensor longus digitorum in front. Pero- The peroneus longus is the more superficial of the two gu"s lon" muscles, and passes round the outer border of the foot into the sole to end in the cuneiform and metatarsal bones. It arises from the head of the fibula, from the outer surface of Origin the shaft of the bone for two thirds of its length, and from ftbuia; the fascia and the intermuscular septa. Inferiorly it ends in a tendon which is contained, with that of the peroneus brevis, in the groove at the back of the external malleolus, and the sheath of the external annular ligament. After- wards the tendon is continued in a separate sheath, below that of the peroneus brevis, along the side of the os calcis to the groove in the outer border of the cuboid bone, by which insertion it enters the sole of the foot. Its position in the foot, and bones of its insertion into the tarsal and the metatarsal bones, are the foot, described in page 727. In the leg the muscle is immediately Position beneath the fascia, and lies on the peroneus brevis. Be- Lg. neath its annular ligament it is placed over the middle piece of the external lateral ligament of the ankle, with the peroneus brevis, and surrounded by a single synovial mem- brane common to both. The extensor longus digitorum and the soleus muscles are fixed to the fibula laterally with respect to it, one being on each side. Perone. The peroneus brevis reaches the outer side of the foot, isSattacVhS;and is connected with the metatarsal bone of the little toe. fibula. It is smaller than the preceding muscle, and inferior to it in position. The muscle arises from the outer surface of the shaft of the fibula for about the two lower thirds, and from the intermuscular septa. Its tendon passes, with that of the peroneus longus, beneath the external annular ligament, and is placed next the fibula as it turns below this bone. Escaped from the ligament, the tendon enters a distinct fibrous sheath, which conducts it along the tarsus to its and bone insertion into the base of the metatarsal bone of the little of theARTICULATION OF THE KNEE. 737 toe. In the leg the muscle is beneath the peroneus longus, little . ... toe; except in front. On the outer side of the os calcis it is con- tained in a sheath above the tendon of the former muscle ; connec- tions. and each sheath is lined by a prolongation from the common synovial membrane behind the outer ankle. Section VII. LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE, ANKLE, AND FOOT. Directions.— The student may now examine the remaining Examine . . first the articulations of the limb, and may take first the knee-joint, knee. unless this has become dry; in that case the ankle-joint and the ligaments of the foot may be dissected whilst the other is being moistened. Dissection. — For the dissection of the ligaments of each Dissec- tion to articulation, it is sufficient to detach the muscles and tendons see from around it, and to remove the cellular or fibrous struc- ture that may obscure or conceal the ligamentous bands. In the knee-ioint a kind of capsule is to be defined around acap- 1 sule and the articular surfaces of the bones ; and there are four other the ex- ternal ligaments, anterior and posterior, internal and external, i*ga- & . . ments. which are thickened bands at their respective parts of the articulation. Some tendons, namely, those of the biceps, popliteus, adductor magnus, and semimembranosus, are to be followed to their insertion, and a part of each is to be left. The Articulation of the Knee. — The knee is the Bones in largest hinge joint in the body, and is formed by the con- joint, tiguous ends of the tibia and femur with the patella. The articular surfaces of the bones are covered with cartilage, and are maintained in apposition by the following ligaments: — A capsule surrounds the ends of the bones, and fills the CaPs^e * only an intervals between the stronger special ligaments. The '^p^j fascia lata is closely united with it, and in front it receives vering. accessory fibres from the vasti and crureus, and from the biceps and sartorius ; and, behind, from the tendon of the semimembranosus. It is connected with the interarticular cartilages, and the tendon of the popliteus muscle per- forates it. 3 B738 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. External CI, The external lateral ligament is round and cord-like; ligament it is attached to the outer condyle of the femur below the ' tendon of the gastrocnemius, and descends vertically between two pieces of the tendon of the biceps to the outer part of the head of the fibula. A second fasciculus, short external lateral ligament is sometimes found behind the other. Be- neath the ligament are the tendon of the popliteus, and the lower external articular vessels and nerve. Tendon The tendon of the biceps is inserted into the upper part of biceps is the head of the fibula by two processes, and from one of these there is a prolongation to the head of the tibia. The external lateral ligament passes between the pieces into which the tendon splits. Tendon The tendon of the popliteus may be followed to the femur popliteus by dividing the external lateral and capsular ligaments. It edatoach" arises from the fore part of the oblong depression on the condyle; outer surface of the external condyle of the femur; and, in its course to the outside of the joint, it crosses the external semilunar cartilage and the upper tibio-peroneal articulation. When the joint is bent, the tendon lies in the hollow on the condyle. adduc- The tendon of the adductor magnus is inserted into a nus to*8 tubercle on the inner surface of the internal condyle above the . . inner, the attachment of the internal lateral ligament. internal b. The internal lateral ligament is scarcely distinguisb- lateral iiga- able from the capsule at its attachment to the condyle of attach- the femur ; but it becomes thicker inferiorly, and is fixed to merits; . _ _ . the inner surface and the posterior border of the tibia nearly as low as the popliteus muscle. The tendons of the sar- torius, gracilis, and semitendinosus muscles lie over the is joined ligament; and the tendon of the semimembranosus, and the by semi- ° . mem- lower internal articular vessels are beneath it : to the brano- sus. posterior edge some fibres of the tendon of the semimem- branosus are added, inser- The tendon of the semimembranosus muscle is to be fol- tion of the semi-lowed beneath the internal lateral ligament. It is inserted mem- % . # brano- beneath the ligament into an impression at the hinder part of the inner tuberosity of the head of the tibia, and sends some fibres to that band; it gives also one membranous prolonga- tion to join the fascia covering the popliteus muscle, and another to the posterior ligament of the knee-joint.LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 739 c. The posterior ligament (ligament of Winslow) is formed Poste- in great part by the fibres from the tendon of the semimem- ment. branosus, which are directed across the joint to the outer condyle, but a deeper set of fibres is continuous with the Two sets " 9 r of fibres general capsule. Numerous apertures exist in it for the passage of vessels and nerves to the interior of the articula- tion. • d. The anterior ligament (ligamentum patellae) or the Anterior tendon of insertion of the extensor muscles of the leg, is ment, or about three inches long, and is narrower in the middle than at the ends. Superiorly, it is attached to the lower part of tendon the patella and the depression on the inner surface; and, lQ- exten- feriorly, it is inserted into the tubercle of the head of the s°rs* tibia, and an inch of the bone below it. The expansion of the vasti covers it ; and a bursa intervenes between it and the tubercle of the tibia (see p. 770.). Dissection. — To see the reflections of the synovial mem- Open the brane raise the knee on blocks, and open the joint by an in- joint, cision along each side from the front to the back. When the anterior part of the capsule with the patella is thrown down, a fold (mucous ligament) will be seen extending from the end of the femur to the front of the joint below the patella. On each side of the patella is a similar fold (alar ligament), con- taining some fat. The limb is afterwards to be taken from this position, and and dis- part of the posterior ligament is to be removed, to lay bare cial liga- the crucial ligaments at the back of the joint; but the limb ments' is to be replaced in the former position before the structures are learnt. The synovial membrane lines the interior of the capsule, Synovial and is continued to the articular ends of the bones. Besides brane covering the capsule, it invests the interarticular cartilages, and sends a pouch between the tendon of the popliteus and the external cartilage and the head of the tibia: it is likewise reflected over the strong crucial ligaments at the back of the joint. On the front of the femur the sac of the membrane extends two inches above the articular surface. In the cen- extends tre of the joint is a fold (mucous ligament) which contains a Sar^' small vessel and some cellular tissue, and extends from the furfdCes' 7 is interval between the condyles to the fat below the patella. *hI°™, J r into folds On each side of the patella is another fold (alar ligament), JJJ™^ 3 b 2DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 740 and alar occasioned by the fat at this spot, which is continuous with ments. the former below the patella. Dissect Dissection. — The ligamentous structures within the cap- liga- sule will be brought into view, whilst the limb is still in the same position, by detaching the patella and its ligament, and clearing away the fat that is behind it; but in this step the student must be careful of a small transverse band that con- nects anteriorly the interarticular cartilages. The remains of the capsule and the synovial membrane are finally to be cleared away from both the crucial ligaments and the inter- articular cartilages, other h- Ligamentsivithin the capsule.—The remaining ligamentous within structures, although within the capsule, are external to the suie.cap sac of the synovial membrane which is reflected over them : they consist of the crucial ligaments in the middle line: of two flat plates of fibro-cartilage, the interarticular or semi- lunar, on the head of the tibia ; and of the transverse liga- ment between the fore part of the last. Two The crucial ligaments are two strong fibrous processes, liga. which intervene between the ends of the tibia and femur, and chiefly maintain those bones in contact. They cross one another somewhat like the legs of the letter X, from which circumstance they have received their name. One is an- terior to the other in position at the attachment to the tibia. Anterior a. The anterior ligament is oblique in its direction, and is lique"; smaller than the posterior. Inferiorly it is attached to the its at- tach- inner lip of the hollow in front of the spine of the tibia, close ' to the inner articular surface; and superiorly it is inserted into the back part of the outer condyle of the femur, on the inner surface, and slightly into the interval between the con- dyles. posterior b. The posterior ligament is almost vertical between the is verti- cai.. bones at the back of the joint. By the lower end it is fixed to the back of the depression behind the spine of the tibia, at the margin of the bone ; and by the upper extremity it is inserted into the fore part of the hollow between the con- dyles of the femur, and into the contiguous surface of the inner condyle. Their The use of these ligaments in the movements of the joint, flexion after the other ligaments have been cut through, should be741 LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 3 b 3 studied. When the joint is bent the posterior ligament is and ex- stretched, and when it is straightened the anterior band is made tense. In rotation inwards of the tibia the ligaments are crossed in rota- tion. tightly, and the movement is arrested by the anterior fasci- culus ; but in rotation outwards the ligaments untwist, be- coming almost parallel, and that bone may be turned back foremost. As long as both ligaments are whole the femur cannot be in keep- • > in£> the dislodged from the tibia. If the anterior be cut the femur bones in can be displaced backwards ; but if the posterior is divided, whilst the other remains entire, the same bone can be brought in front of the tibia. Since the ligaments act in the manner above stated in in ex. treme keeping the articular surfaces one on another, both will be flexion called into play in extreme flexion and extension. For in tension, great flexion the anterior will be stretched with the posterior crucial, because there is an attempt to separate the articular surfaces backwards at the same time. So in great extension, the posterior comes into action after the anterior ligament, to prevent the femur being carried forwards. The inter articular or semilunar cartilages are two fibro- semi- cartilaginous plates, which partly cover the articular surface carti- of the tibia. They are thickest at the outer margin, where two. they are united by fibres to the capsule; and are hollowed on the upper surface, so as to assist in giving depth to the fossse for the reception of the condyles of the femur. At their at- tachments to the bone they are coarsely fibrous, like the crucial ligament, and become cartilaginous only where they lie between the articular surfaces. The synovial membrane is reflected over them. a. The internal cartilage is semicircular in form, and is a internal . . is semi- segment of a larger circle than the external. In front it is circular. attached by a pointed part to an impression close in front of the inner articular surface of the tibia, and in a line with the anterior margin of the head of that bone. At the back, where it is much wider, it is fixed to the inner lip of the hollow behind the spine of the tibia, between the attachment of the other cartilage and the posterior crucial ligament. b. The external cartilage is nearly circular in form, and Exter- is connected to the bone within the points of attachment of Seiriy742 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. circular its fellow. Its anterior part is fixed to the bottom of the depression in front of the spine of the tibia, and close to that point of bone; and its posterior extremity is inserted into the middle of the spine, between the two osseous points, band of -^rom *ne posterior part of this disc a ligamentous fasciculus Jiga- ascends to the inner condyle of the femur, to be inserted ment. \ before or behind the posterior crucial ligament. This fibro- cartilage is less closely united to the capsule than the internal, for the tendon of the popliteus muscle separates it behind from that membrane. Trans- The transverse ligament is a narrow band of fibres be- verse li- <*#•!• gament. tween the semilunar cartilages at the front of the joint. Sometimes it is scarcely perceptible. Articu- Articular surface of the bones.— The lower end of the lar end J J femur ^emur presents on each side a large convex condyle, and between them a slightly hollowed part; of the two, the articular surface on the external condyle is the largest and extends highest. Each condyloid half of the bone has the following differences in its surface : altogether in front is a trochlea or pulley-like surface formed by both; at the pos- terior part each is rounded and convex, but the inner one most so; whilst the intervening part of each is flattened, tibia, On the head of the tibia are two articular surfaces, but the inner one is deepest, and has the greatest extent, and pa- The surface of the patella is divided into two parts, but unequally, by a vertical ridge, so that the outer, which cor- responds to the wider face on the external condyle of the femur, is the largest in size. Articu- Peroneo tibial articulations. — The tibia and fibula of tibia are united by ligamentous bands at the ends, where they la. touch, and by an interosseous ligament between the shafts of the bones. The surfaces in contact are tipped with car- tilage, and a synovial membrane is present in the joint. Dissec- Dissection. — The muscles are to be taken away from the the liga- front and the back of the interosseous ligament; and the ments* cellular membrane is to be removed from a small band in front of, and behind both the upper and lower articulations between the tibia and fibula. After the examination of the ankle-joint, a strong interosseous ligament may be seen at the lower part of the leg by forcibly tearing the bones one from another.743 ARTICULATIONS OF THE FIBULA. a. The upper articulation, like the lower, is almost im- Upper movable, and therefore the structures between the ends of tion,, the bones are slight and simple. Only two small bands, anterior and posterior, are present here. The anterior ligament extends before the joint from theby an- outer tuberosity of the tibia, to the head of the fibula. The posterior ligament, thinner than the anterior, is attached to and Pos- corresponding parts of the bones behind the joint, and is band, covered by the tendon of the popliteus muscle. A synovial membrane lines the articulation, and projects upwards so as to touch that of the knee-joint. b. The lower articulation is continuous with the ankle- Lower joint, for the same synovial membrane serves for the two. tion has Besides an anterior and a posterior band, there is an inferior ligament between the lower ends of the bones. The anterior ligament reaches obliquely from the lower anterior, end of the tibia to that of the fibula; and the posterior has posten- attachments behind the joint, similar to those of the band in front. The inferior ligament is continuous with the fibres and infe- of the posterior, but is stronger than it. It is fixed on the ment^* one side to the end of the fibula, and on the other along the posterior edge of the articular surface of the tibia, so as to assist in deepening the hollow into which the astragalus is received. The interosseous ligament is an aponeurotic partition be- inter- tween the muscles on the front and the back of the leg. Its ligament fibres are for the most part directed downwards from the the outer border of the tibia to the ridge on the anterior or inner surface of the fibula; but some few cross in the opposite direction. Both superiorly and inferiorly is an aperture which transmits vessels, viz. the anterior tibial at the one spot, and the anterior peroneal at the other. Some strong irregular bundles of fibres, which constitute the inferior in- inferior terosseous ligament, extend between the bones below the ment. aperture for the anterior peroneal artery ; these take differ- ent directions, like the fibres of the rest of the interosseous membrane. Articulation of the ankle.—Like the knee, the ankle Bones is a ginglymoid or hinge joint. In this instance the upper ankie- surface of the astragalus is received into an arch formed by J°mt' the lower ends of the tibia and fibula, and the four ligaments 3 b 4DISSECTION OF THE LEG. belonging to this kind of articulation connect together the bones. Dissec- Dissection.—To make the dissection required for the liga- the1 an- ments of the ankle-joint, the cellular membrane and vessels kie-jomt, must removed from the front and back of that articulation. For the purpose of defining the lateral ligaments, the limb must be placed first on one side and then on the other: the internal ligament is wide and strong, and is beneath the tendon of the tibialis posticus ; the external is divided into three separate pieces, and to find these the peronei muscles, and the remains of the annular ligament below the outer malleolus should be taken away. Anterior The anterior or tibio-tarsal ligament is a thin fibrous is^thin membrane, which is attached to the tibia close to the articular perfeS" surface, and to the upper part of the astragalus near the arti- culation with the scaphoid bone. The ligament is not usually a continuous membrane, for in it are some cellular intervals and apertures for vessels. On the sides it joins the lateral ligaments. Poste- The posterior ligament is formed chiefly of transverse ment!ga" fibres, which seem to be continuous with the posterior piece of the external lateral ligament. It is inserted into the tibia and the astragalus, close to the articular surfaces, internal The internal lateral or deltoid ligament is attached by its toid^1" upper or pointed part to the inner malleolus, and by its base attach- to the astragalus, the os calcis, and the scaphoid bone. From its upper attachment the fibres radiate to their insertion be- low in this manner ; — the posterior are directed to the hinder part of the inner surface of the astragalus ; the middle pass vertically to the side of the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis ; and the anterior which are thin and oblique, join the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament, and the inner side of the scaphoid bone. The tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum are in contact with this ligament. External The external lateral ligament consists of three separate partsh-ree pieces, anterior, middle, and posterior : two of these (anterior and posterior) are attached to the astragalus, and the other anterior, to the os calcis. The anterior piece is a short flat band, which is directed from the fore part of the malleolus to the astragalus, in front of the lateral articular surface. The middle, middle portion is round and cord-like, and descends from the745 LIGAMENTS OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. tip of the malleolus to the outer surface of the os calcis, about the middle. The posterior part is the strongest, and is a"^0P°s~ almost horizontal in direction ; it is connected externally to the pit on the under surface of the malleolus, and is inserted into the posterior surface of the astragalus, extending to the groove for the flexor proprius pollicis tendon. The posterior and middle fasciculi are in contact with the peronei muscles. Connec- tions. The middle part is altogether removed from the synovial membrane of the ankle-joint; and both it and the under sur- face of the posterior piece are in contact with the synovial membrane between the astragalus and the os calcis. Dissection. — Dividing the ligaments of the ankle-joint, ^pen the separate the astragalus from the bones of the leg, to see the i°int- osseous surfaces entering into the joint. Articular surfaces. — On the tibia there are two articular surfaces J m of the faces, one of which corresponds to the end of its shaft, and bones in 1 7 thejoint, the other to the malleolus; but on the fibula only the surface of the malleolus, that is turned to the astragalus, is tipped with cartilage. The astragalus has a central articular sur- face, that touches the end of the tibia; and on the sides are similar articular impressions that are in contact with the malleoli, but the outer one is the largest. The synovial membrane of the joint lines the capsule, and synovial sends a process upwards to the lower peroneo-tibial articula- tion. Articulations of the astragalus and os calcis. — Articuia- These two chief bones of the tarsus are united to one another, the two as well as to the bones in front of them, by separate arti- bones, culations. Dissection.—All the rest of the joints of the foot will be Dissec- demonstrated by removing from both the dorsum and the thejoints sole the parts that have been already examined, and then tarsus, cleaning the ligaments. Between the different tarsal bones bands of ligament extend, which will be defined by remov- ing the cellular membrane from the intervals between them. a. The astragalus with the os calcis. — These bones are Astra- kept together by a strong interosseous ligament; and there SlTos is also a thin band both on the outer side and behind. The posterior ligament consists of a few fibres between posteri- * ° or, ex- the bones, where they are grooved by the tendon of the ^™a,» flexor pollicis ; and the external ligament is connected to theDISSECTION OF THE FOOT. 746 sides of the astragalus and os calcis, near the middle piece of interos- the external lateral ligament of the ankle-ioint. The inter - seous li- ; _ . gament. osseous ligament consists of strong vertical and oblique fibres, that are attached above and below to the depressions on the contiguous surfaces of the two bones. This band extends across the bones, and its depth is greatest at the outer side. The astragalus will be subsequently removed, and then the bones will be seen to have articular surfaces and synovial Articu. sacs. There are two articular surfaces where the bones facesUr" touch, viz. behind the ligament, and in front of it. Two noviai" synovial membranes exist between the bones, one for each branes. articulation; and the one in front of the interosseous liga- ment is continued between the head of the astragalus and the scaphoid bone. Astraga- b. The astragalus with the scaphoid bone.—The large scaphoid head of the astragalus is received into the hollow of the sca- phoid bone, and is united to it only by a dorsal ligament; for the place of a plantar ligament is supplied by a strong band between the os calcis and the scaphoid bone, which will be presently noticed. Dorsal The dorsal or astragalo-scaphoid ligament is attached to ment. the astragalus close to the articulation, and to the dorsal surface of the scaphoid bone: its attachments will be better synovial seen when it is cut through. The synovial membrane of brane. the joint is the same as that for the articulation between the astragalus and the anterior part of the os calcis. Os calcis c. The os calcis with the scaphoid bone. — These bones and sea- . . - phoid, by are not in contact, but ligamentous bands extend between them both below, and on the outer side of the head of the astragalus, and thus make more perfect the socket for the reception of the fore part of the last bone. inferior The inferior ligament (calcaneo-scaphoid) will be defined in the sole of the foot by removing some fibro-cartilaginous substance from it; and its upper surface, together with the other ligament, will be brought into view by sawing off the part of the astragalus that is in front of the interosseous ligament to the os calcis. It is attached by one extremity to the anterior part of the os calcis, and by the other, to a groove on the under surface of the scaphoid bone. The tendon of the tibialis posticus is beneath the ligament in the sole of the foot, and on it the head of the astragalus rests.747 ARTICULATIONS OF THE TARSUS. The external calcaneo scaphoid is an interosseous ligament, external and is outside the head of the astragalus; it is about half an ments inch deep. Behind, it is fixed to the os calcis, between the articular surfaces for the cuboid bone and the astragalus; and in front it is attached to the outer side of the os sca- phoides. These ligaments enter into the articulation of the enter * into as- astragalus with the scaphoid bone, and are lined by the tragaio. ° . i , scaphoid same synovial membrane. articuia- d. The os calcis with the cuboid bone,—-The ligaments in 0s calcis this articulation are plantar and dorsal, the former being bofdCU" much the strongest; and there is also an internal or inter- bone'by osseous band. The dorsal ligament (superior calcaneo-cuboid) is a thin dorsal fasciculus of fibres, which is attached to the upper surfaces of the contiguous ends of the os calcis and the cuboid bone, and is divided into one or two parts. At the inner side of the os cuboides is another rather strong internal or inter- osseous band from the os calcis. The inferior calcaneo- and infe- cuboid ligament in the sole of the foot is the strongest, and gament. is divided into a superficial and a deep part: — The superficial portion {ligamentum longum plantce) is attached to the The last under surface of the os calcis, and its fibres pass forwards to est'and8 be connected to the ridge on the under part of the cuboid into two bone; whilst some are prolonged over the tendon of the pe- parts' roneus longus muscle, assisting to form its sheath, and are attached to the tarsal ends of the third and fourth metatarsal bones. The deep piece of the ligament will be seen, on division of the superficial, to extend from the eminence on the fore part of the under surface of the os calcis, to the portion of the cuboid bone behind the ridge. A single synovial synovial membrane belongs to the articulation. Dissection* — The interosseous ligament uniting the astra- Dissec- galus and the os calcis is now to be cut through to demon- strate the articular surfaces, the synovial sacs, and the attachment of the ligament. Articulations of the scaphoid bone. — The scaphoid union bone articulates in front with the three cuneiform bones, and scaphoid laterally with the os cuboides, by dorsal and plantar bands. bone a. In the articulation with the cuneiform bones there are to the three small dorsal ligaments, one to each bone, but the inner- form1" most is the strongest. The place of plantar bands is sup-DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. 748 plied by processes of the tendon of the tibialis posticus. A synovial membrane lines the articulation, and sends forwards prolongations between the cuneiform bones, and the b. In the articulation with the os cuboides there is a dorsal bone. oblique band of fibres; a 'plantar transverse band, which is concealed by the tendon of the tibialis posticus; and a strong interosseous ligament between the contiguous surfaces of the bones. At the points of contact of the scaphoid and cuboid bones the surfaces are tipped with cartilage, and furnished with a prolongation from the common synovial membrane of the tarsus. Union ARTICULATIONS OF THE CUNEIFORM BONES.—These bones cunei- are united to one another by cross bands; and the external bones one articulates with the os cuboides after a similar manner, one with a. The three cuneiform bones are connected together by another, transverse dorsal bands between the upper surfaces. Similar plantar ligaments are wanting, except between the two innermost. There are also interosseous ligaments be- tween the contiguous surfaces of the bones, and with b. Where the external cuneiform touches the cuboid bone the cuboid the surfaces are covered with cartilage, and furnished with bone. & a prolongation of the common tarsal synovial membrane. A dorsal ligament passes transversely between the two, and a plantar ligament takes a similar direction. Between the bones there is also an interosseous ligament, synovial The synovial membrane of the articulations of the cunei- form bones is common to many of the bones of the tarsus. Placed between the scaphoid and the three cuneiform bones, it sends a prolongation forwards between the two inner cuneiforms to the second and third metatarsal bones, and another outwards to the articulations of the scaphoid and the external cuneiform with the cuboid bone. Union ARTICULATION OF THE METATARSAL BONES. The bases meta- of the metatarsal bones, except the first, are connected toge- by ' ther by dorsal, plantar, and interosseous ligaments; and where the contiguous parts touch they are covered with car- tilage, and have part of a synovial sac. dorsal, The dorsal ligaments are small transverse bands that pass from the base of one metatarsal bone to that of the next, on plantar, the upper surface, in the four outer toes. The plantar liga- ments are similar to the dorsal, between the same bones.749 ARTICULATIONS OF THE METATARSUS. The interosseous ligaments are short, transverse fibres be- and in- tween the rough lateral surfaces of the four outer bones, and seous may be afterwards seen by tearing these asunder, ments. Lateral union. — The four outer bones touch one another Lateral union. laterally, and the second lies against the internal cuneiform. At those spots they are covered with cartilage, and provided with synovial membrane, that is derived from the sacs serv- Synovial ing for the articulation of the metatarsal with the tarsal bones. The metatarsal bone of the great toe, like that of the thumb, Articu. is not united to the others by any intervening bands : it has great" °f its own articulation with the internal cuneiform bone. The digital ends of all the metatarsal bones are further Anterior united by the transverse metatarsal ligament; this has been ment. described in page 725. Articulations of the tarsal and metatarsal bones. Arficu% lation of — The last row of the tarsus articulates with the metatarsus the tar- sus and in the following manner ; the three cuneiform with the three metatar- ° 7 sus. inner metatarsal, and the cuboid with the two outer meta- tarsal bones. The bones are tipped with cartilage where they are in contact, and have, moreover, dorsal, plantar, and lateral ligaments. a. The dorsal ligaments are thin bands of fibres, that are Dorsal either longitudinal or oblique, as they extend from the tarsal mgents. , to the metatarsal bones. Each metatarsal bone has one, ex- cept that of the second toe, to which there are three : — the first has its band from the inner cuneiform bone; the second its three bands from the cuneiform bones, one from each ; the third has a ligament from the external cuneiform; and the fourth and fifth have a fasciculus to each from the os cuboides. b. The plantar ligaments are mostly longitudinal; there Plantar is one from each cuneiform to its corresponding metatarsal gitudinai bone, but between the cuboid and the remaining metatarsal Hque. bones there are only some scattered fibres. Oblique plantar ligaments between the same bones are also present in the sole of the foot: for instance, a superficial fasciculus of fibres extends from the front of the internal cuneiform to the second and third metatarsal bones ; and from the exter- nal cuneiform there is a superficial band to the metatarsal bone of the little toe.750 DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. Longi- c. The lateral ligaments are longitudinal; they lie deeply interos- between the bones, and are connected with the second and isfg°a"s third metatarsals : they will be better seen by partly cutting ments* the transverse bands joining the bases of the metatarsals. The bone of the second toe has two, one on each side; — the inner being strong and attached to the internal cunei- form, and the outer to the middle or the outer cuneiform bone. The bone of the third toe is also provided with two lateral bands : of these, the outer is fixed into the external cuneiform, and the inner into the middle cuneiform bone.* Line of Line of the articulation. — The line of the articulations ticuia- between the tarsus and metatarsus is zig-zag, in consequence across of the unequal lengths of the cuneiform bones. To open the articulations the knife should be carried obliquely forwards from the tuberosity of the fifth to the base of the second metatarsal bone; then about two lines further back for the union of the second metatarsal with the middle cuneiform; and, finally, half an inch in front of this last articulation for the joint of the internal cuneiform with the first metatarsal bone. Three The synovial membranes in the articulation are three in synovial num|3er> There is one between the internal cuneiform and branes. metatarsai bone. A second is between the cuboid and the two outer metatarsals, and serves for the adjacent lateral articular surfaces of these bones. The third is placed in the articulation between the middle and the external cuneiform with their corresponding (second and third) metatarsal bones, and is an offset of the common synovial membrane that belongs to the articulation of the scaphoid with the cunei- form bones (p. 748.) : prolongations from it are furnished to the lateral articular parts of the second, third, and fourth (inner side) metatarsals. Separate Dissection. — All the superficial ligaments having been for inter- taken away, the cuneiform bones may be forcibly separated osseous £rom one anotner am} from the os euboides; the latter from the os scaphoides ; and the bases of the metatarsal bones from one another to see the interosseous ligaments between them : the dissector will sometimes find the bones tear sooner than the ligaments. * The ligaments inserted into the contiguous surfaces of the middle and external cuneiform bones, may occasionally be wanting.751 ARTICULATIONS OF THE PHALANGES. Articulation of the metatarsus with the pha- Union . . °f nieta- langes. — These are ball and socket joints, in which the t^lrdsusha head of the metatarsal bone is received into the cup-shaped langes, cavity of the phalanx. Each articulation has two lateral and an inferior ligament, t as in the hand, and the joint is further strengthened above andin- 7 ° 0 fenor by an expansion derived from the tendon of the short exten- Hg&- J 1 m ments. sor of the toes. A distinct synovial membrane exists in each. In the articulation of the great toe there are two synovial sesamoid bones, which are connected with the inferior and lateral ligaments. All these structures are better seen in the hand, where See the hand. they are more distinct; and their anatomy is more fully described in the dissection of that part. See page 332. Articulations of the phalanges. — There are two ,Vnion of the pna- phalangeal joints to each toe, except to the first. The same ^meL ligaments are found in these as in the metatarsophalangeal ^crib- joints, viz., two lateral and an inferior. The joint between j^jjfthe the two last phalanges is least distinct, and oftentimes the small bones are connected together by osseous material. These ligaments receive a more particular notice in the dissection of the hand (p. 333.).752 ARTERIES OF THE LOWER LIMB. TABLE OF THE ARTERIES OF THE LOWER LIMB. External pu- ~) Superior die - $ inferior, superficial epi- gastric superficial cir- cumflex iliac. External circumflex internal circumflex first perforating second perforating third perforating -terminal branch. f Ascending descending ^transverse. Muscular articular ascendini transverse £, I final branches. - nutritious. Anastomotic - 5" Superficial L deep branch. Muscular upper internal upper external articular lower internal lower external articular azygos articular sural. Anterior tibial Recurrent cutaneous muscular internal malleolar external malleolar articular tarsal metatarsal first interosseous communicating to deep arch digital C three inter- ' I osseous. C To great toe and I half the next. ^Posterior tibial - peroneal nutritious to tibia communi- cating to pe- roneal articular internal plan- tar ^Muscular nutritious to ■i fibula | anterior Pero- ts neal. external plan-< tar U f Muscular plantar arch Muscular posterior perfor- ating digital, for three toes and a half anterior perfor- • ating. * The branches of the internal iliac artery that end in the limb, will be found in the table of the arteries of the abdomen.VEINS OF THE LOWER LIMB. 753 TABLE OF THE VEINS OF THE LOWER LIMB. ^Popliteal Posterior tibial Anterior tibial Muscular External saphenous sural articular -muscular C Superficial ' ^deep branch. rTerminal branch first perforating second perforating third perforating External circumflex Internal circumflex C muscular ^external plantar J ^plantar arch internal plantar articular communicating to saphenous nutritious 'Posterior per- forating digital from three toes and a half. anterior perfor- ating. -peroneal - ("Anterior pero- ) neal I muscular ^nutritious. rcornmunicating f^Wta! *™ to deep arch interosseous metatarsal tarsal malleolar communicating to saphenous muscular ^recurrent ^Branch from dorsal arch of foot plantar veins from outer side ofoscalcis cutaneous in the leg. great toe and half the next. ( Three inter- im osseous. Nutritious. /'Ascending - ) transverse (^descending. m f Muscular " (.articular. Internal s phenous Branch from dorsal arch of the foot plantar veins about os calcis communicating with pos- terior and anterior tibial communicating with deep veins of thigh cutaneous from outer and inner parts of thigh external pudic superficial epigastric superficial circumflex iliac. 3 cNERVES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 754 TABLE OF THE NERVES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 1. External^ cutaneous" 'accessory - 2. Obturator« P (t Posterior and anterior branches. To obturator trunk to pectineus , to hip-joint, to obturator extern us to articulation /'Muscular- superficial divi-\ -") to plexus in the (_ thigh ^ To adductor bre- -3 visandmagnus / articular. ^ To gracilis to adductor longus. sion '"-deep division Muscular- I. Anterior crural Superficial por- tion deep part - | middle cuta- < neons J internal enta- il neous - Muscular- C To sartorius " t to pectineus. r Anterior and . pinner branches. sTo rectus \ to vastus externus - ■-s to vastus internus ? / and crureus J" articular, articular. L Srural ) mentS- , QrT>n,, c • (Inferior gluteal atte - -1 in(>ri0r Pu.deni?a! f Branch to plexus .internal saphe-s over patella L nous - (. to leg and foot. (^cutaneous to gluteal region, thigh, and leg. Articular to hip to hamstrings. !. Great sci-. atic - external popli- teal internal teal popli- 'Articular cutaneous peroneal com- municating recurrent arti- cular musculo-cuta- ( To peronei neous - - \ cutaneous to foot and toes. /'Muscular anterior tibial -3 articular (^cutaneous to two toes. Articular muscular short saphenous. postei 3. To qua-') dratusand Particular, gemelli -) Superior ") To glutei L gluteal -$ to tensor vaginae femoris. rior tibial- f Muscular to flexors (Cutaneous of the sole muscular four digital communicating branch articular to the toes. f Muscular /'Superficial ) two digital Uernalp.a„tar ^ " J^ufar (deep part - |articular.755 CHAPTER X. DISSECTION OF THE EYE. The eyeball is the organ of vision. It is lodged in the situation orbit, and is supported in this hollow on a mass of fat; it IS eye-ball, surrounded by muscles which impart to it its several move- ments. Two lids or shields protect the eyeball from external Parts ~ 1 J around injury, and moderate the quantity of light admitted into the gj^j"f interior; and the anterior or exposed surface is covered by a iL mucous membrane (conjunctiva). Directions. — In the absence of specimens of the human Thedis- . section eye, the structure must be learnt on that of some large am- to be made on mal, as the ox for example. Let the student, therefore, pro- eye cure half a dozen or more eyes of the ox for the purpose of ox. dissection. One or two small basins will be needed, and in the bottom of one of them, or of a deep plate, some melted wax or tallow should be run. Dissection. — To see the general form of the ball of the Detach eye, and the outer surface of the external coat, the attach- cies. ment of the different muscles should be taken away, and the loose mucous membrane should be removed from around the anterior part. The ball of the eye is roundish in form, and consists of Form of two parts which differ greatly in appearance, viz. an opaque or posterior, forming four-fifths of the whole, and a smaller transparent portion (cornea) in front; these two parts are segments of different-sized spheres, and the anterior belongs to the smaller one. To the back of the globe the optic nerve Position ° p of optic is attached, rather to the inner side of the axis of the ball; nerve, and around it the nutritive vessels and the nerves are dis- posed. The antero-posterior diameter of the ball amounts Diame- to about an inch, and exceeds the transverse by about a line. The organ of vision is composed of certain parts essential outline to the function, and of others requisite for protection and elements support. Its sentient constituent is a fine expansion of the organ of756 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. optic nerve (retina). Within the nervous expansion are central transparent parts to bring the rays of light to a focus on it; and in front of these is a moveable curtain (iris) to regulate the formation of the image in the interior. To de- fend such delicate structures, certain denser strata or coats are arranged around it; and to absorb the superabundant rays of light entering the eyeball, one of them is covered by a layer of pigment cells. Number The coats of the eyeball, forming three strata, are arranged 0f COatS • 1 • V 1! .1 ., , one within another, and are named sclerotic, choroid, and and cen. retina. The transparent media in the interior are likewise tral parts. % three, viz. the lens, the aqueous humor, and the vitreous body. Dissection. — To obtain a general idea of the structures to be dissected, the student may destroy one eyeball for that purpose by cutting through it circularly: he will then be able to recognise generally the arrangement of the parts mentioned above, and their strength and appearance ; and will be better able to follow the directions that are after- wards given. sclerotic The sclerotic coat (cornea opaca) is the most external fibrous, stratum of the eyeball, and forms a firm, whitish, and opaque covering, which supports the more delicate structures within. Dissec- Dissection. — To examine the inner and outer surfaces of seethe this coat, and the cornea, it will be necessary to cut circularly interior. through the sclerotic or outer coat, with a blunt-pointed scissors, close to the cornea; and then to separate the cornea from the front of the eyeball, by destroying a structure that fixes it slightly; in raising the cornea, the student may ob- serve the aqueous fluid escape from the containing chamber. Lastly the other structures may be removed from the inte- rior of the sclerotic covering; and the central parts of the ball may be set aside for subsequent use. Form The sclerotic tunic of the eye is bell-shaped, and extends tent. " from the entrance of the optic nerve to the margin of the Aper- cornea, forming about four-fifths of the ball. At its posterior behind part and a little to the inner side of the centre (one tenth of an inch), the optic nerve is transmitted through an aper- ture in it: this opening decreases in size from without in- wards, and is cribriform when the nerve is drawn out — the lattice-like condition being due to the union with its margin757 CORNEA. 3 c 3 of the bundles of fibrous tissue between the funiculi of the nerve. Other smaller apertures for the passage of the nutri- tive vessels and nerves are situate around that for the optic nerve. In front is the large rounded hole into which the and in 0 front. cornea is received: it measures about half an inch trans- versely, and rather less from above down. On the outer Outer surface this coat is smooth, except where the muscles are inner , . . t surface. attached; but on the inner aspect it is covered with a floc- culent cellular layer, and with the ends of ruptured vessels and nerves, and is of a dark colour. The sclerotic covering is thickest at the back of the eyeball, but it becomes thinner Thick- ness. and whiter towards the cornea, where it is visible as the " white of the eye;" but where it joins the cornea it becomes again somewhat thickened. Structure. — The sclerotic coat is formed of layers of Formed . • • rti of white white fibrous tissue, mixed with yellow or elastic fibres, and yel- low tis- Though interlaced with one another, the fibres have rather sue a longitudinal direction towards the back of the ball, and a transverse one at the outer surface near the cornea. A few with pig- irregularly shaped pigment cells are scattered amongst the ceils, fibres towards the cornea. Cornea. — This firm transparent membrane (cornea pel- Cornea: lucida) fits into the front of the eyeball, of which it forms about one fifth. Its shape is circular, though, when viewed extent in front, particularly in the ox, it appears largest in the form, transverse direction in consequence of the sclerotic structure reaching further on it above and below than on the sides. It is smooth and soft to the touch, is convex anteriorly but Curve, concave posteriorly, and is of equal thickness throughout. Its anterior is of rather less extent than its posterior surface. Surface. At the circumference it is blended with the sclerotic coat by continuity of tissue. This clear and diaphanous structure, resembling in appear- situation ance the glass of a watch, bounds the anterior chamber of Sthent the eyeball, and gives passage to the rays of light entering sclerotlc' the organ. When the cornea is supported by the aqueous jts ac_ humour, it deflects the rays of light transmitted to the eye, forays and thus influences by its greater or smaller convexity the of llghu different degrees of sight at a distance. After death it be- comes flaccid from the transudation of the aqueous humour;758 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. or if it is immersed in water it is rendered opaque by infil- tration of the tissue by that fluid. Has not Structure. — The cornea is laminar in texture ; and in the blood- vessels, healthy condition blood-vessels do not permeate its structure, Com- but cease in loops at its circumference. It is constructed of layers, a special, thick basement part called cornea proper: in front of this is a thin elastic layer with an epithelial stratum ; and behind it is another fine elastic membrane covered by an epithelium. The two structures in front of the thick proper cornea constitute the conjunctiva. Cornea The cornea proper (lamellated cornea) is made up of a proper is . . . . . formed series of layers, about sixty in number in a section at a given of layers, , . , . . , . , spot, which join one another at numerous points, and cannot with in- therefore be detached for any distance.* Between the layers tervals J J between, there are elongated tubular spaces (corneal tubes), which are mostly parallel on the same level, but cross obliquely those on a different plane^ from which they are usually distinct; these intervals do not contain fluid, but are moistened by a vapour. This structure possesses great toughness; and its transparency depends upon the parallelism of the different strata, and their distance from one another being duly main- tained, for, if they are disarranged by compression or other its tissue means, the translucency is destroyed. The laminse of the edinto" cornea are formed of white fibrous tissue, continuous with the that of the sclerotic coat, but here flattened into membra- tic. " nous layers, and arranged one over another. Poste- The posterior elastic layer may be peeled off after a cut elastic has been made across the cornea. It is a thin, but dense ld}er' and hard membrane, that tears readily when an attempt is made to detach it, and curls up when it is separated; it is charac- always transparent, and remains so after boiling, after the action of acids, and even after maceration. At the edge of the cornea this lamina breaks up into processes, which turn attach- backwards, and become blended with the outer margin of the margin1; iris, the ciliary circle, and the sclerotic coat. Though very elastic, this membrane is apparently without a definite struc- * The facts stated in this, and in many other places in the description, are obtained from Mr. Bowman's Lectures on the Eye, and from the Physiological Anatomy, part third, 1847, of Dr. Todd and Mr. Bowman.CHOROID COAT. 759 3 c 4 ture. A laminar epithelium, like that on serous membranes, has an clothes its free surface, limn. The anterior elastic layer is also a transparent structure, Anterior . elastic similar in its properties to the posterior, but thicker than it layer is ("from l-1200th to l-2000th of an inch"), which extends conjunc- over the front of the cornea, and seems to be the basement membrane of the conjunctiva. From its posterior surface fine shreds are continued into the cornea proper. On its has an . epithe- anterior aspect is the conjunctival epithelium ; this is formed Hum. of three or four layers of scales, the deeper being columnar, but the superficial laminar in form. Choroid Coat. — The next coat or covering of the ball of Choroid ° coat is the eye is within the sclerotic, and is formed chiefly of blood- vascular, vessels and pigment cells; its strength is but slight, and its interior is lined by a pigmentary membrane. Dissection. — Supposing only the sclerotic coat of an eye cut through near the anterior part, as before directed (p. 756.), ^he0^fd it will be necessary, in order that the choroid coat may be coat- laid bare, to take away the rest of the sclerotic. The outer coat is to be removed in water, and two incisions are to be directed backwards in it, one on each side of the ball, to the optic nerve. In removing the flaps of that coat, some cellu- lar connections are to be broken through, but the slender vessels and nerves are to be preserved. The white ring around the eye in front, that comes into view during the dis- section, is the ciliary ligament, which limits the extent for- wards of the black choroid coat. For the purpose of seeing the anterior termination of the To see choroid coat in the ciliary processes, let another eyeball be liary taken on which the sclerotic covering has been divided, and Jesses the cornea removed as before; and after making two or three cuts in the sclerotic towards the optic nerve, the resulting flaps should be pinned to the wax in the plate, so as to sup- port the eye in an upright position. Let another eye be prepared in the same manner. On the one ball, in which the by an anterior view of the processes is to be obtained, proceed to remove with care the iris, tearing it away from both the white ring of the ciliary ligament, and the ciliary processes beneath, so as to leave these undisturbed and displayed. On and a i i i I-, • n i i posterior the other ball a posterior view ot the processes is to be pre- view, pared: in this dissection the iris is to be left untouched, but760 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. the choroid coat is to be divided all round with a scissors, a little behind the ring of the ciliary ligament, and to be taken away with that ligament, the attached iris, and the ciliary processes behind—all in one piece. By gently washing the back of the iris the small processes will be made manifest. To see By means of the last dissection, the interior of the choroid the in- J ' andth'e COa* m2i^ ^e seen» The structure of the membrane may be tureC" examined on a fragment obtained from the eye that was destroyed in making the preparation of the sclerotic coat. To make If a vertical section is made of another eyeball, it will section, show the ciliary processes in their natural position, and will demonstrate the relative situation of all the parts. This sec- tion, which it is difficult to make, should be attempted in water with a sharp, large knife, and on a surface of wax or wood : after the eye has been divided, the halves should re- main in water. Form The choroid coat is a thin membrane of a dark colour, and tentfx" forms a segment of a sphere.: like the sclerotic stratum, it extends from the optic nerve to the fore part of the eyeball. When viewed on the eye in which the ciliary ligament is Anterior entire, it appears to end at the ligament; but it may be seen tion. in the other dissections to bend inwards behind that ring and the iris, and to end in a series of pointed processes, pars plicata, around an anterior opening for the admission of the rays of light. This covering is thicker and stronger behind than in front: it is supported at the bottom of the eyeball by its close connection to the sclerotic coat, and in front, by the open- ciliary ligament. Posteriorly it is pierced by a round aper- ture for the passage of the optic nerve ; and anteriorly is the large opening within the ring of folds called ciliary pro- Outer cesses. The outer surface is flocculent, and is covered by surface . rough; the remnants of a pigmentary areolar tissue (membrana fusca) between it and the sclerotic coat; on it may be seen small veins arranged in parallel arches as they open into the larger trunks, and lying on its surface are the ciliary vessels inner and nerves. The inner surface is smooth, and is lined by a smooth. . . , thin pigmentary epithelial layer (membrana pigmenti), though in the eye of the ox it shines through that layer with a metallic lustre. ciliary The ciliary processes, or the folds or plaits by which the cesses, choroidal coat is terminated in front, are arranged around761 STRUCTURE OF THE CHOROID COAT. the lens, like the many petals of a flower, forming a circle Position, (corpus ciliare). These processes lie side by side, and con- sist of larger and smaller folds; together they are about sixty Two i-i /i . . kinds, m number, but the latter do not reach the free extremities small, of the larger kind, and often blend with them. The folds and are thin externally at the commencement, near the ciliary ligament, but increase in depth internally, and projecting inwards, end around the lens; but at their inner extremity they are bent away from the lens towards the iris, and so assist to bound circumferentially the space (posterior cham- ber) behind the iris. Behind, the ciliary processes are connec- closely connected with the membrane on the front of the with vitreous humour, for they fit into hollows between folds on around, the anterior aspect of that membrane. In front they are in contact with the back of the iris, with the tissue of which they are continuous. Structure. — The choroid coat and its ciliary processes Parts are formed principally of blood-vessels, with dark pigment into its cells, for there is only a small quantity of white fibrous tissue ture. intermixed with the other structures. On the outer surface the larger branches of both arteries A plexus ° of blood. and veins lie side by side, and the veins form parallel curves vessels (yasa vorticosa) as they end in four or five chief efferent Z^ge trunks. On the inner surface the vessels may be seen in an Sfter-S injected eye to form a net-work of capillaries with smaller nally' meshes than elsewhere, whose interstices are rather less to- close in- wards the back than the front of the eyeball: this part of the ternallv- choroidal coat is sometimes described as a separate layer (tunica Ruyschiana). In the interspaces of the vessels to- wards the outer surface there are ramified irregular pigment ^^"y cells, which contain a nucleus and molecular grains of dark n*[^r" brown colouring matter; but towards the inner surface? where the vessels form so close a plexus, the pigment cells are wanting. In the ciliary processes there is also a texture of ramified struc- .... . . tureof blood-vessels, with intermixed pigment cells, as in the choroid ciliary coat; but the cells are in greatest abundance on the under or cesses, posterior aspect, as well as in the intervals between the pro- cesses. The pigmentary membrane (choroidal epithelium).— On Pigmen- the inner surface of the choroid coat and the ciliary processes layer762 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. formed is a thin pigmentary lining. This structure is easily de- that con- tached, and may be seen with the microscope to consist of a pigment, single stratum of five or six-sided nucleated cells with gra- nular contents. Though the layer lines all the inner surface of the choroid coat, the quantity of contained pigment varies Occa- at different spots: in the eye of the ox for instance the sionally . pigment colouring matter is absent from the cells m the bottom of absent. the eye, and allows some fibrous tissue of the choroid (tape- turn) to shine through it; and in the albino the pigment is altogether deficient in the cells, so that the vessels give a red appearance to the interior of the eye. This dark layer ab- sorbs the superabundant rays of light entering the eyeball, ciliary Ciliary Ligament and Muscle.—In the eye from which ment. the sclerotic coat has been removed, the white band of the ciliary ligament (annulus albidus), with the muscle close behind it, may be seen in its natural position outside the part of the choroid coat that is reflected inwards to form the ciliary processes. situa- Ciliary ligament.—-This circle is situate in the ball of the eye nearly opposite the junction of the cornea with the sclerotic tunic, and serves the purpose of suspending the iris, and uniting the other coats at the fore part of the eye. Ex- ternally it is closely connected with the sclerotic, but a small interval the sinus circular is iridis exists between the two. Internally the iris and the posterior elastic layer of the cornea are attached to it; and behind it is a grayish stratum (ciliary muscle) on the surface of the choroid coat for about one eighth of an inch. It consists of fibrous tissue, derived from the elastic layer of the cornea, wTith some circular fibres outside these. Ciliary The ciliary muscle consists of unstriped fibres, and forms a grayish layer, about an eighth of an inch wide, on the sur- mentsh" ^ace °^ choroid coat, close to the ciliary ligament. It is connected in front with the ligament, and the fibres are directed backwards and inwards, to end on the choroid coat. The nerves to the iris pierce its fibres, ins is The iris is a vascular contractile structure, whose vessels vascular , • 1 ' i i> i ' i ' • i i ' • t and mus- are continuous with those 01 the choroidal tissue. Its posi- tion and connections may be observed in the different dissec- tions that have been prepared. situa- It is suspended vertically in front of the aperture in theTHE IRIS. 763 anterior part of the choroid coat, which it partly closes, and is pierced by an aperture for the transmission of the rays of light. It is circular in form, is variously coloured in different form; individuals, and is immersed in the aqueous humour. By its circumference the iris is connected with the pos- ^cth"- terior elastic layer of the cornea and the ciliary ligament, and by means of the last body with the sclerotic coat close to the cornea. The aperture in it is named the pupil of the gjtua-^ eye ; this is slightly internal to the centre, and is nearly jjj^f circular in form, but its size is constantly varying (from -±j trai to ^ of an inch) by the contraction and relaxation of the ture. muscular fibres, according to the degree of light acting on the optic nerve. The anterior surface is free in the aqueous Anterior r 1 surface; humour, and is marked by lines converging towards the pupil. The posterior surface is blended at the circumference v™te- with the ciliary processes; but it is free internally, and is covered with a thick layer of pigment, to which the name uvea has been applied. Structure, — The iris is composed of some unstriped mus- Eie- cular fibres of a peculiar character, of a plexus of blood- struc- vessels, and of pigment cells between the vascular twigs. Muscular fibres. — On examining the iris in an albino, Muscu- its fibres will be found interlacing and converging towards b^thm!8 the pupil, where they are connected in a more or less per- and Ef- fect ring of fibres around that aperture.* Besides these cular' muscular fibres, Mr. Bowman finds other hair-like fibres, unbranched, whose nature is unknown. Enlargement of the pupil may be effected by shortening of the radiating fibres, J1^^ and diminution, by contraction of the circular ring. The movements of the iris regulate the quantity of light admitted use. into the eye. The pigment cells in the iris are irregular in shape, like ^jg^jJJ* those in the choroid coat, and are scattered through the termine r the tissue. The colour of the anterior and posterior surfaces colour, appears to be dependent upon the difference in their number and arrangement. The arteries of the iris have a looped arrangement, some- Arteries A ° 7 are ra- thing like the muscular fibres : they are derived chiefly from bating * In one instance Mr. Bowman says there was " at the very verge of the pupil an appearance of a set of circular fibres."764 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. the long and the anterior ciliary branches, but some come from the vessels of the ciliary processes. On arriving at the ciliary muscle the two former form a circle around the margin ed^the °^ ^e *r*s' ^rom ^s ^00P otner anastomotic branches are fibres, directed towards the pupil, near which they terminate in a second arterial circle; and at the verge of the pupil is a third circle of almost capillary vessels. Mem. Membrane of the pupil. — In the fetus before the seventh pupa month, the aperture of the pupil is closed by a vascular fetus^ transparent membrane. This structure is attached to the situa- anterior surface of the iris, over the situation of the middle tion; # ... vascular circle, and divides into two distinct chambers the space in which the iris is suspended. Vessels shoot into it from the circle before referred to, and communicate across time of the middle line; but at about the eighth month the vessels pear-" become impervious, and at the time of birth only fragments ance' of the membrane remain. Arteries Ciliary Vessels and Nerves. — The ciliary arteries are °fthe m n eyeball offsets of the ophthalmic (p. 49.), and supply the choroid coat, the ciliary processes, and the iris : they are classed into posterior and anterior, and two of the first set are named long ciliary, but they will not be seen without a special in- jection of the vessels of the eye. posterior The posterior (short) ciliary branches pierce the sclerotic back- coat around and close to the optic nerve, and run on the surface of the choroid membrane till they enter its substance. the°m°f r^wo °f tn^s se^ 0ong ciliary) are directed forward to the j0a^ed ciliary ligament, one on each side of the eyeball, and form a ciliary, circle around the iris, as before explained, before being dis- tributed in it; in the ball the outer one lies rather above, and the inner rather below the level of the axis. duary°r ^e anier^or ciliary arteries are smaller than the pos- fronT teri°r? and arise at the front of the orbit, chiefly from muscular branches; they pierce the sclerotic coat about a line behind the cornea, and join the arterial circle of the long ciliary vessels before they end in the iris. In inflam- mation of the iris these vessels are enlarged, and form a ring around the cornea, firms ^e ve^ns leaving the choroid coat are commonly four in lf*u number, and the branches entering these trunks form arches cosa, end (yasa vorticosd) on the surface : they perforate the scleroticCILIARY NERVES AND THE RETINA. ' 765 layer at separate points, midway between the cornea and the in the *• n i • rt /, -I . . Ophthal- optic nerve, and end in the ophthalmic vein. mic: The ciliary nerves are derived from the lenticular gang- ciliary a no nerves lion, and from the nasal nerve (p. 48.). Entering the back of the eyeball with the arteries, they are continued forwards with the vessels between the sclerotic and choroid coats as far as the annulus albidus : at this spot the nerves pierce elJd in. r r ins and the fibres of the ciliary muscle, and enter the iris, but their jj^JJ manner of ending is unknown. Offsets from the nerves supply the ciliary muscle. Chamber of the aqueous humour.—The space between the Space u 1 ... contains cornea in front and the lens behind, in which the iris is sus- aqueous humour pended, contains a clear fluid named the aqueous humour. In the fetus this interval is separated into two distinct parts by the iris and the pupillary membrane, but in the adult it is only partly divided, for the two communicate through the ^.J^* pupil. The boundaries of the two chambers may be seen in ^°t^° the eye on which a vertical section has been made. iris- The anterior chamber is the larger part of the space £anrtterior before mentioned ; it is limited in front by the cornea, but behind by the ciliary ligament and the iris. The posterior posteri- chamber is less than half the size of the anterior. In front its' bound- it is bounded by the iris ; behind by the lens, and a piece of aries. the membrane on the front of the vitreous humour; and at the circumference by the ciliary processes, as these are inclined obliquely to the back of the iris. The aqueous humour is quite transparent, and consists Aqueous in • humour. nearly of pure water. A small quantity of chloride of sodium, with some extractive matter, is in solution in it. It has been supposed that this fluid was secreted by a special membrane lining the cavity, but evidence of such a structure is wanting. Eetina. — This coat (tunica nervea) is formed by an ex- Retina pansion of the optic nerve, and is the most delicate of all the by optic structures in the eyeball. On it an image of objects is pro- nerve' duced by the rays of light being brought to a focus in the bottom of the eye. Dissection. — The retina can be satisfactorily examined Dissec- only on an eye that is used before forty-eight hours have ex- see the pired after death. To bring it into view on the eyeball on retma" which the choroid coat was dissected, the choroidal coveringDISSECTION OF THE EYE. 766 must be torn away carefully with two pair of forceps whilst the eye is immersed in water. If an entire eye is used for the purpose, a thread may be passed through the cornea, and fastened to a pin fixed in wax; then on removing in water the sclerotic and choroid coats, the retina will be laid bare. The interior of the retina may be seen in the eye from which the cornea, the iris, and the corpus ciliare have been removed in front, situa- The retina is the most internal of the three concentric eyeball; strata in the globe of the eye, and is situate between the choroid coat and the transparent mass (vitreous humour) that is lodged in the interior. It is moulded upon, and supported form by the vitreous body ; and its form is that of a segment of a sphere, as in the other coats, but its aperture in front is rather larger. Beginning behind in the optic nerve, this thin and ex- layer extends forwards nearly as far as the annulus albidus, tent' viz. to the spot at which the choroid coat becomes folded (outer margin of the corpus ciliare), where it ends in a wavy border—the or a serrata. colour; This nervous expansion is of a pinkish gray colour, and is semitransparent when fresh, so that an image can be seen on it at the bottom of the eye when the two external coats are transpa- removed; but it soon loses this translucency, and is moreover and°y rendered opaque by the action of water and other substances. nest' Its thickness is greater at the posterior than at the anterior part of the eyeball. Outer On the outer surface are some fine shreds, fragments of a floccu-18 structure (Jacob's membrane) to be noticed presently, which float in the fluid in which the preparation may be placed ; and in a fresh eye, on which the coats have been removed from behind, a continuous layer of this membrane may be On the detached with care. On looking to the inside through the surface vitreous body, the surface will be found covered with folds, but these are accidental, in consequence of the membrane having lost its proper support; and at the spot where the porus optic nerve expands (porus opticus) is the central artery of opticus, retina. But in the interior of the human eye, in the axis of the bail, and TVth of an inch outside the entrance of the optic nerve, is a slight roundish eminence of the retina, of a yellow colour, and T^th of an inch in diameter, which is luteus8 named tne yellow spot of Scemmerring (limbus luteus). InSTRUCTURE OF THE RETINA. 767 the centre of that spot is a minute aperture, foramen cen- foramen trale ( Soemmerring), which is supposed to penetrate through the nervous layer of the retina, though not through the outer flocculent stratum or the membrane of Jacob. In the eye of a fetus of the ninth month, which had been hardened in chromic acid, Mr. Bowman found the foramen to be but the narrow neck of a small " follicular pouch" of the retina, which projected towards the vitreous body.* Structure. — In the retina are two layers or strata of dif- Two layers ferent materials, together with blood-vessels: the inner of in the , retina. the two is formed by nerve substance; and the outer, or Jacob's membrane, by peculiar elements. a. The layer of nerve substance is made up of the same One of elements as the gray matter of the encephalon, viz. of a gra- Tub-6 nular matrix containing different-sized nerve cells, with stance nerve fibres instead of nerve tubes ; these constituents have the following arrangement: — The tubules of the optic nerve, has two having become solid in texture and gray in colour from the absence of the white substance of Schwann, radiate from the an inner of alter. end of the optic trunk, and communicate together to con- ed nerve r 7 ° tubules, struct a thin stratum at the inner aspect of the nervous layer; this delicate lamina diminishes in strength as it is followed forwards. Outside the nerve fibres is a stratum of and an the granular material: this begins around the entrance of the granular optic nerve, and becomes thinner, like the fibrous, as it ex- clear tends forwards. Scattered through its substance are large pale nucleated vesicles, with a few caudate nerve cells (Bow- man) ; and towards its outer aspect are other nucleus-like cells (agglomerated granules), which are globular in shape and closely united together. In the yellow spot of Soemmerring the nerve elements inyeiiow have a special arrangement: the nerve fibres pass around how ar- instead of over the surface ; and the granular stratum, with rdnged* its nucleated (and caudate ?) vesicles increased in number, seem alone to occupy that part of the retina. In the nervous layer is a plexus of blood-vessels, which is Blood- derived from the central vessels of the retina contained in the in this optic nerve (p. 49.). When the nerve becomes membrani- layer* form the artery divides into four or five branches; these pierce * Vol. vi. p. 102. of the Dublin Quarterly Journal of Medical Science.768 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. the stratum of fibres, and end in a network of capillaries in the granular matrix outside them, like the vessels in the gray substance of the encephalon, and without forming a separate layer: a marginal vessel runs circularly round the ball at the anterior termination (ora serrata) of the retina. The larger branches of the artery keep clear of the axis of the eyeball, and the spot of Soemmerring, and only capillaries occupy the limbus luteus. In the fetus a branch of the artery is distributed to the back of the lens. Outer b. The outer stratum of the retina (Jacob's membrane) spedaias that forms the delicate film between the nervous substance parts' and the choroidal epithelium consists of two different ele- ments — rods and bulbs — both being microscopic objects. Rods; The rods are transparent solid cylindrical or hexagonal bodies, which are pointed at one end and square at the other : form • tne7 are placed perpendicularly between the ocular coats, so that the pointed or conical ends are directed outwards to the how choroidal epithelium, into recesses on which they are re- poskion. ceived, and the bases rest on the granular layer of the retina. In water and soon after death these bodies decompose; the point separates and becomes globular, whilst the remainder also changes and even assumes the form of a hook. Bulbs The bulbs are transparent rounded bodies, in contact with the granular layer of the retina, which are scattered at equal distances amongst the rods, and do not reach to the apices of witha these last. Occasionally there appears to be a spur project- spur. from .f.jie outer part amongst the rods. These bodies are best seen in fishes where they have a somewhat different constitution (Hanover). * vitreous Vitreous Body.—A transparent mass fills the greater body* part of the space within the coats of the eyeball, which has been named vitreous body from its resemblance to glass ; it consists of a clear aqueous fluid, contained in a translucent membrane, and has the consistence of jelly. To ob- Dissection. — The vitreous body may be seen on the eye on which the retina was dissected, by taking away the retina, oflt* the ciliary ligament and processes, and the iris. To obtain a view of its anterior part with the lens in situation, an eye- ball should be pinned upright on wax; the sclerotic and * Recherches Microscopiques sur le Systeme Nerveux, 1844.769 THE VITREOUS BODY. choroid coats should be cut through about two lines behind the cornea (p. 759.) ; and on removing carefully the cornea, and the ciliary ligament and ciliary processes, the vitreous body will become apparent. The vitreous body is globular in form, and fills four Part of fifths of the ball of the eye, reaching forwards nearly to the filled by iris. In front the vitreous body is slightly hollowed, and In front receives the lens with its capsule, to which it is closely \se^ united. The fluid of the vitreous body has nearly the same , . . -. . Struc- composition as the aqueous humour, and is contained in the ture; meshes of a close web of fibrous tissue. Enveloping the tissue whole is a thin membrane named hyaloid. ing The hyaloid membrane is the fine transparent covering of Hyaioid the vitreous body. It passes continuously over the surface J^e. of that mass; and it is supposed by some to send inwards processes towards the centre, which divide the vitreous sub- stance into segments, as in an orange. At its outer surface Connec- it is united to the retina by a layer of transparent cells; and outer at the inner aspect are a few delicate nuclei. At the bottom fnner. of the eyeball, opposite the optic nerve, the membrane is more closely joined to the parts around ; for at that spot in pr0Cess the fetus it was reflected inwards, through the centre of the iureous vitreous mass, along the blood-vessels supplying the back oflnass' the lens. This membrane and the vitreous mass are extra- vascular, and receive their nutritive material from the vessels of the ciliary processes and the retina. Suspensory ligament of the lens (Retzius). — This is the suspen- transparent membranous structure, situate around the lens gament, at the front of the hyaloid membrane, that intervenes between extent, the anterior termination (ora serrata) of the retina and the lens. This thin membrane is fibrous and elastic and IS COn- nature, nected to the plaited part of the choroid coat (corpus cili- are) by a granular material. After the ciliary processes of the choroid coat are detached from it, dark lines of pigment cover the surface; and when these are washed away plaits or is mark- folds, ciliary processes, come into view, which resemble the fold? processes of the choroid coat, but are less prominent and longer: these two sets of folds are dovetailed together, the that are fitted prominences of one membrane being received into hollows between ciliary on the other. pro- Canal of Petit. — Around the margin of the lens is a canai'of 3d " Petit;DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 770 small canal, about two lines across, which has received the above name. It is situate between the plaited part of the suspensory ligament and the front of the hyaloid membrane — being the interval of separation between the two. When the canal has been opened and distended with air, it is sacculated at regular intervals, like the large intestine, in consequence of the inflation of the plaits of the anterior boundary. The margin of the capsule of the lens projects into the space. Crystalline lens and its capsule. — The crystalline lens is situate behind the pupil of the eye, and acts chiefly in bringing to a focus on the retina the rays of light passing through that aperture. Dissection. — The lens will be obtained by cutting across the thin membranous capsule in which it it enclosed. The lens is contained in a capsule, and is seated in a hollow on the front of the vitreous body. The anterior part projects towards the iris and the pupil; whilst the posterior is received in the vitreous body, to which it is firmly fixed. The circumference of its case corresponds to the canal of Petit. When the lens is removed it is a solid and transparent doubly convex body; but the curves are unequal on the two surfaces, the posterior being greater than the anterior. Its margin is somewhat rounded. The density increases from the circumference to the centre; for the superficial part rubs off easily with the finger; but the deeper portion is hard and firm, and is named the nucleus. Its measurement from side to side is from one third to half an inch, and from before back about one sixth of an inch. On each surface are three lines diverging from the centre, and reaching to- wards the margin ; they are the edges of septa, and are so situate that those on one side are intermediate in position to those on the other. In the human eye they are not dis- tinctly seen, because they bifurcate repeatedly as they extend outwards. Covering the surface of the lens, and connecting it with the capsule, is a layer of very transparent nucleated cells, which can be recognised only in a fresh eye (Todd and Bowman). After a little time these cells break down, pro- bably from the absorption of the aqueous humour, and formLENS AND ITS CAPSULE. 771 3 d 2 the fluid that has been called aqua Morgagni; but naturally there is not any fluid between the lens and its capsule. Structure, — After the lens has been hardened by spirit or Lens is boiling, it may be demonstrated to consist of a series of layers arranged one within another, like those in an onion. Under the miscroscope each layer may be seen to be con- structed of minute parallel fibres. No blood-vessels are found in its texture. It consists mostly of albumen. The lamince of each surface have their apices in the Form of centre, where the septa meet, and may be detached from one mints • another at that spot, and turned outwards. The constituent fibres of the laminae are about 3-^^th of an inch in diameter, con- but they are flattened at the margin of the lens, and the o?mi-ed deeper fibres are narrowed and less separate. In the wider fibres part of the laminae they have slightly wavy edges, by which are contiguous fibres are dovetailed together: this digitation is the edse» best seen in the lens of the codfish. They are connected at belied their extremities to the partitions on the opposite surfaces of septaby the lens in this way : those that are attached to the spot ends! where the septa meet on the one aspect, are fixed to the ex- tremity of a septum on the other aspect; and the rest of the fibres passing between two septa, begin and end at opposite points in each. Changes with age.—In infancy the lens is situate further changes forwards than in adult age, and touches the iris. Its form uonT*" is nearly spherical in the fetus, but its convexity decreases form, with age, particularly on the anterior aspect, until the lens becomes flattened in old people. In the fetus it is reddish colour, in colour, is soft, and is not quite transparent; in youth and mature age it is firm and clear ; and in old age it becomes consist- ence. denser and of a yellowish colour. The capsule of the lens is a firm but very elastic trans- Capsule parent case, that closely surrounds the lens. Its anterior lens; surface is free in the posterior chamber of the eve but gives its ante- 1 /• rior Part attachment towards the circumference (xg-t-h of an inch off) ^Jjrra to the suspensory ligament ; its posterior surface is connected trans- with the hyaloid membrane of the vitreous body. The an- terior part of the capsule is three or four times thicker than the posterior, as far outwards as to the attachment of the suspensory ligament, and supports itself after the removal of the lens ; it is firm and quite transparent, and remains clear772 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. after immersion in spirit, acids, and boiling water, like the posterior elastic layer of the cornea. The posterior part of the capsule fibrous;; IS thin and membranous, and decreases in thickness towards the centre. vessels In tne adult human eye the capsule of the lens is not t0 supplied with blood vessels; but in the fetus a branch of the central artery of the retina passes through the vitreous body to supply it on the posterior aspect.CHAPTER XL DISSECTION OP THE EAR. The organ of hearing is made up of many complex parts, Defini- that are lodged in, or are attached to the surface of the tem- poral bone. The sentient structure in this orsran, as in the eyeball, is Outline r» -i •• , . • of the an expansion 01 a special nerve over a membrane containing elements fluid. For protection this structure is enclosed in bone, organ of It is surrounded by certain accessory bodies that collect, and convey to it the undulations of sound, or influence the effect of the same on the auditory nerve. The several parts constituting the auditory apparatus may Arrange- be arranged into those outside, and those within the sub- into two „ i sets. stance of the temporal bone. A. The external set (outer ear), which may be first ex- Outer amined, include the pinna or auricle, and the auditory canal: the former has been noticed at page 37., and the latter is de- scribed below. The auditory canal (meatus auditorius externus) is the Auditory canal. passage which leads from the pinna to a cavity in the tem- poral bone named the tympanum, and transmits inwards the sounds. Dissection. — To obtain a view of this canal, a recent tern- How to poral bone is to be taken, to which the cartilaginous pinna So? remains attached. After the soft parts are removed, the 11' squamous part of the bone in front of the Glasserian fissure is to be sawn off; and the fore part of the meatus, except the portion below that gives support to the thin membrana tympani, is to be cut away with a bone forceps. This canal is about one inch and a quarter in length, and length; is formed partly by bone, and partly by cartilage and mem- brane. It is directed forwards somewhat obliquely, and IS direc- bent downwards rather beyond the middle, so that the floor slopes from that spot both outwards and inwards. In shape size and 3 d 3 shape-774 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. it is rather flattened from before backwards; and it is nar- rowest at the bent part. The outer extremity is continuous with a hollow (concha) of the external ear, and the inner is closed by the membrana tympani. Cartiia- a. The cartilaginous part is about half an inch in length, pan"8 and is formed by that portion of the pinna of the outer ear which is attached to the margin of the meatus ; but at the isjtefi- upper and posterior aspect the cartilage is deficient, and the above, tube is closed by fibrous tissue. Two or three fissures (San- torini) are found in the piece of cartilage, osseous b. The osseous part is about three quarters of an inch long bentIs in the adult, and is constricted about the middle, near which outer it is bent as before said. Its outer extremity is dilated, and the posterior projects farther than the anterior wall; the margin is rough, and gives attachment to the cartilage of the inner pinna. The inner end is less dilated, and is marked, except at the upper part, by a groove in the dry bone, for the inser- tion of the membrane of the tympanum; it is so sloped that the anterior wall juts out more than the posterior by about two lines. condj- In the fetus the osseous part is absent. After birth it the fetus, grows out of the osseous ring (tympanic bone) that supports the membrana tympani, and joins the rest of the temporal bone. Lining Lining of the meatus. — A prolongation of the integument brane is lines the auditory passage, and is continued over the mem- from the brane of the tympanum in the form of a thin pellicle. Around the entrance of the meatus are some fine hairs. In the subcutaneous tissue of the cartilaginous part of the Cerumi. meatus are some ceruminous glands, resembling in form and glands, arrangement the sweat glands of the skin, which secrete the ear wax, and open on the surface by separate orifices ; these are most abundant in that portion of the tube which is formed by fibrous tissue. Vessels- Vessels and nerves. — The meatus receives its arteries from the posterior auricular, the internal maxillary, and the Nerves, temporal branches of the external carotid trunk. Its nerves are derived from the auriculotemporal branch of the fifth nerve, and enter the auditory passage between the bone and the cartilage (p. 95.). internal B. The internal constituents of the auditory apparatus areTYMPANIC CAVITY. 775 3 d 4 enclosed within the temporal bone, and consist of two large auditory spaces, named tympanum and labyrinth, with their accessory parts. The tympanum, or drum of the ear, is a hollow interposed Tympa- between the meatus auditorius and the deeper labyrinthic cavity. It communicates with the pharynx by a tube (Eus- tachian), through which the mucous membrane and the air have access to it; and it is traversed by a chain of small bones, with special muscles and ligaments connected with the ossicles. Numerous and minute vessels and nerves are in the space. Dissection, — The tympanic cavity is to be opened in both Dissec- a dried and a recent bone. On the dry temporal bone, after removing most of the to open squamous portion by means of a vertical cut of the saw dry" e through the root of the zygoma, and the Glasserian fissure, n ' the tympanum will be brought into view by cutting away with the bone forceps the anterior part of the meatus audi- torius, and the projecting bone above that forms the roof of the cavity. In the recent bone, in addition to the preparation already and in made of the meatus auditorius, only the roof of the tympa- cent num should be taken away as far as may be necessary, and without doing injury to the membrana tympani, the chorda tympani nerve, and the chain of bones with its muscles. Form. — The cavity of the tympanum has the form of a Form small, round, flat box, placed on the edge, for the outer and inner boundaries are flattened and the circumference is cir- cular. Its size is greater from point to point of the circum- dimen- ference than across the space, or from without inwards, being in the former direction about half an inch, but in the latter not more that half that measurement. The inner boundary is of greater extent than the outer, inner and on it the following objects are to be noticed. About the is mark- centre is the large projection of the promontory, which be-proton - comes pointed posteriorly, and is marked by two or three its7 an minute grooves that lodge the nerves forming the anasto- srooves* mosis of Jacobson. Above and below the posterior or nar- rowed part of the promontory is a large aperture, and both lead into the labyrinthic spaces. The upper opening re- sembles in shape the half segment of a circle, with the con-776 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. Fenestra vexity placed upwards, and is named fenestra ovalis: to- °va s> wards the vestibular cavity (part of the labyrinth) it has a sharp, prominent margin ; and into it, in the recent state, the inner bone (stapes) of the osseous chain is fixed. The lower aperture is in form like the upper one, though more arched ; and the base is vertical and directed backwards : it is named fenestra fenestra rotunda, and leads into the cochlea. In the recent rotunda. ft js c}oge(j \yj a thin membrane, secondary membrane of the tympanum, in outer The outer boundary of the cavity is formed by the mem- a?y nd~ brana tympani, and by a small part of the surrounding bone, brana Above the membrane and in front of it, is the Glasserian or tympam gjenoid fissure, which is occupied, in the fresh condition of SnSse" the body, by the long process of one of the small bones (mal- fissure. ]eug^ an(j by a sman muscle (laxator tympani). Crossing the membrane towards the upper part, is the chorda tympani nerve, which passes through an aperture internal to the Glasserian fissure. Circum- The circumference of the tympanum is circular, and in ference, gome partg ft jg r0Ugn an(j uneven on the surface. In pass- ing around the cavity, the student may observe the following points in its anatomy, roof; The roof is wide and flattened, and consists of the thin osseous plate forming part of the cranial surface of the tem- floor. poral bone. The floor is narrow, and curved over the sub- jacent jugular fossa; it presents in the dry bone more or less of an areolar or spongy texture, as well as some small apertures that open into that fossa. At back, At the posterior part of the circumference, towards the roof, is a large aperture leading into the mastoid cells. Be- opening low this aperture, but near the inner wall and on a level toid with the narrowed part of the promontory, is a small conical pyramid; projection, named the pyramid: this is perforated by an aperture, and contains the stapedius muscle; attaching it generally to the above-mentioned part of the promontory, is aqueduct a small round spiculum of bone. In a line with the pyramid, pius.all°" and arching upwards from it above the fenestra ovalis, is a ridge of bone marking the situation of the aqueduct of Fal- in front lopius. The front of the tympanic cavity corresponds to the canals carotid canal, only a thin scale of bone intervening: in it sor tym- are the apertures of two canals that lie on the outer side of777 EUSTACHIAN TUBE. the passage for the carotid artery: — the upper one contains pani and the tensor tympani muscle, and the lower one is the Eusta- cnian chian tube. Between the two canals is a thin osseous lamina, with' which is hollowed above and dilated at the inner end, and IS between, named processus cochlear if or mis. Some parts that have been referred to above, viz. the membrana tympani, the Eustachian tube, and the secondary tympanic membrane, require a separate notice. The membrana tympani is a thin partition between the Mem. meatus auditorius and the cavity of the tympanum. It is tympani; oval in form, taking the shape of the meatus, and is attached ^at|dinlt by its circumference to a groove at the inner end of the jg£gthe auditory passage ; but in the fetus it is fitted into a separate osseous ring, the tympanic bone. The membrane is placed situa- very obliquely with respect to the meatus, so that it meets the floor of that space at an angle of 45 degrees, and the outer surface is directed downwards. Towards the auditory surfaces, canal the surface is concave; but in the tympanum it is con- vex, and has attached to its upper half the handle of one of the tympanic ossicles (malleus). Structure, — This membrane is formed of three strata or it is structures, an external, internal, and middle. Two of these of a cuti- are obtained from common coverings of the body: thus, the epithe- outer one is part of the integument lining the meatus; and fibrous the inner layer is derived from the mucous membrane of the tympanum. The middle stratum is formed of fibrous tissue, and is fixed to the groove in the bone as before said: from the centre, where it is connected with the handle of the mal- leus, fibres radiate towards the circumference, and near the margin is a band of strong circular fibres. The Eustachian tube is the channel through which the Eusta- tympanic cavity communicates with the fauces. It is about tube has an inch and a half in length, and is directed downwards and inwards to the pharynx ; like the meatus auditorius, it is partly osseous and partly cartilaginous in texture. The osseous part is rather more than half an inch in length, an osse- ° ous part; and is narrowed at the middle. Its opening in the tympanum and its situation with respect to the canal for the tensor situation tympani muscle have been alluded to; its course in the tem- poral bone is along the angle of union of the squamous and petrous portions, external to the aperture that contains theDISSECTION OF THE EAR. 778 and ter- carotid artery. Externally it ends in a dilated and somewhat mina- . . . . tion., oval opening, with the longest measurement in a vertical direction; its margin is irregular, and gives attachment to the special cartilage that completes the canal. The carti- Cartiia- laqinous part of the tube is nearly an inch in length, and ginous * . 0 part. extends from the temporal bone to the interior of the pharynx. Xetube (^ee P* 132.) Through this tube the mucous membrane of the tympanum is continuous with that of the pharynx; and through it, by reason of its inclination downwards, the mu- cus passes from that cavity. Mem- The secondary membrane of the tympanum is placed fenestra within the fenestra rotunda, and is rather concave towards the tympanum, but convex towards the cochlear passage which it closes. Con. It is formed of three strata, like the membrane on the struction 0pp0Sjf-e g^e 0f £}ie tympanum, viz. an external or mucous, of three derived from the lining of the tympanum; an internal or layers. gerous^ continuous with that clothing the cochlea; and a cen- tral layer of fibrous tissue with, according to Pappenheim, some elastic tissue at the circumference, ossicles Ossicles of the Tympanum. — These are three in num- tympa- ber, and are placed in a line across the tympanic cavity, three. The outer one is named malleus from its resemblance to a mallet; the next, incus, from its similitude to an anvil; and the last, stapes, from its likeness to a stirrup. For the examination of these little bones the student should be pro- vided with some separate dry specimens, besides the ossicles that are in position in the cavity. Malleus The malleus is the longest bone and is twisted and bent: has it is large at one end (head) and small and pointed at the other (handle), and has besides two processes, with a nar- head, rowed part or neck. The head or capitulum is free in the cavity, is oval in shape, and is smooth except at the back, where there is a depression for articulation with the next neck, bone. The neck is the slightly twisted part between the handle, head and the processes. The handle or manubrium decreases in size towards the tip, and is flattened from before back- wards, except at the extremity where it is compressed in the opposite direction : to its outer margin the membrana tym- pani is connected. The processes of the bone are two in short number, long and short: — The short one springs from theOSSICLES OF THE TYMPANUM. 779 root of the handle on the outer side, and is connected with and long the membrane of the tympanum. The long process — pro- process* cessus gracilis, is a flattened slender point of bone, which is connected with the neck of the malleus at the anterior as- pect, and extends into the Glasserian fissure: in the adult this process cannot be separated from the surrounding bone with which it is joined. The incus is a flattened bone, and consists of a body and incus, two processes. The body is hollowed at the upper and an- its body ? terior part to articulate with the malleus. The two pro- pro- cesses (lone; and short) extend from the side opposite to the short ' . -, . , • if-!-, and long, articulation: — the shorter process is somewhat conical, and is received into the aperture of the mastoid cells ; the long process decreases towards the extremity, where it curves and ends in a rounded and convex point, the orbicular with or- bicular process. point. The stapes has, like a stirrup, a base or wider part, and stapes; two sides or crura that are blended at the opposite end in a head. The base is formed by a thin osseous plate, which is base; convex at one margin and almost flat at the other, corre- sponding to the shape of the fenestra ovalis; the surface that is turned to the vestibule is convex, whilst the opposite is excavated. The head is marked by a superficial depression, head; that receives the orbicular process of the incus; and below it is a constricted part, the neck of the bone. The crura crura, extend from the base to the neck, and are grooved, like the base, on the inner surface: the anterior crus is shorter and straighter than the other. Position of the ossicles. — The malleus is placed vertically Position in the tympanum, with the head upwards, and the articular malleus, surface turned backwards to be connected with the incus: its handle is attached externally to the membrana tympani; and its long process is directed forwards into the Glasserian fissure. The incus is so placed that the long process is ver- of the tical, and the short one horizontal. Externally it is united incus' with the malleus, and its processes are thus disposed:—the short one is received posteriorly into the mastoid cells; and the long process descends, like the handle of the malleus, but rather posterior to it and nearer the inner wall of the cavity, to join inferiorly with the stapes. The stirrup bone has a and of horizontal position, with the crura directed forwards and Hapes.780 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. backwards : its base is fixed into the fenestra ovalis, and its head is united with the long process of the incus. The Liqaments of the ossicles. — The small bones of the tym- bones . * J . . . . ^ have two panic cavity are united into one chain by articular ligaments, nfnts an(^ are ^urtner kept in position by ligaments that fix them to the surrounding bone, either to a. From one bone to another.—The ossicles are connected to an- together at the points where they touch by articulations cor- other . i pi , /» , n responding to those ot larger bones; tor the osseous surfaces are covered with cartilage, and are surrounded by a capsular ligament of fibrous tissue, whilst a synovial sac is present in each joint. One articulation of the nature above described exists between the heads of the malleus and incus, and a second between the extremity of the long process of the incus and the head of the stapes. Jjjjj^ In the recent bone a thin membrane closes the interval be- sta?es^f ^ween the crura of the stapes, and is attached to the groove on their inner aspect, or to fix °- Between the bones and the wall. — The bones are kept theTym- m situation by the reflection of the mucous membrane, and wall? by a special ligament from each. From the head of the malleus a short suspensory band of fibres is directed upwards to the roof of the tympanum. Another ligamentous band passes backwards from the incus, near the end of its short process, to the posterior part of the containing cavity. And the base of the stapes is connected to the margin of the fenestra ovalis by fibres that constitute an orbicular ligament. Three Muscles of the ossicles. — Three muscles which possess to the striped fibres are in connection with the chain of bones ; two of these are attached to the malleus, the other to the stapes. Tensor The tensor tympani (internal muscle of the malleus) is is ii/a contained in a special bony canal, and to see it completely canal, this must be laid open : it is the largest and most distinct gives it of the muscles of the tympanum, and takes the shape of the onsin' containing tube. The muscle arises from the surface of its bony canal, also slightly in front from the cartilage of the Eustachian tube, and its fibres are directed backwards. Posteriorly it ends in a tendon, which is reflected over the end of the cochleariform process as over a pulley, and is and is inserted into the inner border of the handle of the malleus, Sto mai-near its base. It receives a special nerve from the otic ieus' ganglion.781 VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE TYMPANUM. The stapedius is lodged in the canal hollowed in the in- stapedis terior of the pyramid. Arising from the circumference of the py- the tube,, the muscle ends superiorly in a small tendon ; this issues from the pyramid, and is inserted into the neck of the attached 1 J to stapes. stapes at the posterior part. Laxator tympani (external muscle of the malleus).—It is Laxator . . tympani connected externally with the spinous process of the sphenoid bone ; and its tendon, passing through the Glasserian fissure, is attached to the neck of the malleus above the processus gracilis. Mucous membrane of the tympanum.—The mucous lining Lining of the tympanic cavity adheres closely to the wall, and is panum continuous with that of the pharynx through the Eustachian tube: it assists to close the meatus auditorius and the fenestra rotunda, and is, moreover, continued into the mastoid cells through the aperture leading into them. Its surface is covered with a ciliated epithelium. A layer of epithelium Epithe- can be detached from the inner surface of the membrana tympani, in the same manner as a cuticular stratum may be separated on the outer side. Blood-vessels. — The arteries of the tympanum are fur- Arteries nished from the following branches of the external carotid, branches viz., internal maxillary, posterior auricular, ascending pha- tfd?ar°" ryngeal; and some offsets come also from the internal carotid, whilst it is contained in the temporal bone. The veins join the middle meningeal and pharyngeal trunks. a. The internal maxillary artery supplies first a tympanic From branch (inferior), that is distributed around the membrane maxii- of the tympanum ; next it gives an offset to the cavity from the petrosal branch of the middle meningeal artery, which enters the temporal bone by the hiatus Fallopii. b. The stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular Posteru artery, entering the lower end of the aqueduct of Fallopius, cuiar. gives twigs to the back of the cavity, and the mastoid cells. One of this set, superior tympanic, anastomoses with the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary artery, and forms a circle around the membrana tympani, from which branches are directed inwards. c. Other branches from the ascending pharyngeal, or from inferior the inferior palatine artery, enter the space along the Eus- Falatme* tachian tube.DISSECTION OF THE EAR. 782 Nerves Nehves.—The lining membrane of the tympanum is sup- severai plied from the plexiform communication (tympanic plexus) established between Jacobson's and the sympathetic nerve ; but the muscles derive their nerves from another source. Crossing the cavity is the chorda tympani branch of the facial nerve. tion to" Dissection. — The preparation of the tympanic plexus will prepare require a separate fresh temporal bone, that has been nerves softened in diluted hydro-chloric acid, after the nerves have been hardened in spirit. The origin of Jacobson's nerve from the glosso-pharyngeal is first to be sought close to the entering s^u^ (P* 11"3») and the auricular branch of the pneumo- gastric is to be looked for at the same time, andjn^ Supposing the nerves to be found, the student should panic place the scalpel on the outer side of the Eustachian tube, cavity. . . and carry it backwards through the vaginal and styloid pro- cesses of the temporal bone, so as to take away the outer part of the tympanum, but not to open the lower end of the aqueduct ofFallopius, lest the facial nerve should be injured. After the tympanum has been laid open, Jacobson's nerve is to be followed in its canal, and the branches that lie in the grooves on the surface of the promontory are to be pur- sued—one of these arching forwards and two coursing upwards. The connections of the chorda tympani nerve can be seen on the preparation used for the muscles. . , Tympa- The tympanic branch of the, glosso-pharyngeal nerve nejve. ' (nerve of Jacobson, p. 113.) enters a special aperture in the temporal bone, and is Conducted by it to the inner wall of supplies the tympanum.' At this spot the nerve supplies filaments to brine. the lining membrane of the cavity ; and it terminates in the other ^iree following branches, that are contained in'grooves on branch- the promontory, and* connect this nerve with others.* one to Branches. — One branch is arched, forwards and d'ewn- pathS" wards, and enters the carotid canal to communicate ,with the to petro- sympathetic on the artery (p. 120.). * A second is directed * Instead of viewing these filaments as offsets of the nerve of Jacob- son, it may be supposed that they are branches' derived from the other nerves to which they are united.* According, to this view the tympanic plexus would be derived from ma.ny sources.783 VESTIBULAR SPACE. upwards to join the large superficial petrosal nerve in the sal hiatus Fallopii (p. 147.). And the third filament has the and a' following course to reach the otic ganglion: it ascends otic gan- towards the upper surface of the petrous part of the temporal 8llon, bone, passing in front of the fenestra ovalis but beneath the canal for the tensor tympani muscle, and near the gangliform enlargement on the facial nerve, to which it is connected by filaments (p. 151.). Beyond the union with the facial, this nerve is named small superficial petrosal, and is continued called forwards external to the hiatus Fallopii, but without appear- petrosal, ing on the surface of the temporal bone, until it issues from the skull to end in the otic ganglion (p. 152.). Nerves to muscles.—The tensor tympani muscle is supplied Nerves by a branch from the otic ganglion (p. 152.); the stapedius muscles, receives an 'offset from the facial trunk; and the laxator tympani from the chorda tympani nerve. The chorda tympani is a branch of the facial nerve, and is Chorda i n . i —.J tympani now seen m the part ot its course through the tympanum, crosses Entering the cavity behind, it crosses the membrana tym- cavlty' pani, and issues from the space by a special aperture to join the gustatory nerve. It is described at page 151. The auricular branch of the vagus nerve, though not a Branch of vagus nerve of the tympanum, is an offset to the outer ear, and to the 'may be now traced in the softened bone. Arising in the ear. jugular fossa (p. 115.), the nerve enters a canal which con- ducts, it across the lower end of the aqueduct of Fallopius, and through the substance of the temporal «bone to the back * of fhe pinna of the ear. ' * The Labyrinth. — The inner and fundamental portion of Laby- the organ of hearing is so named from its complexness. It formed consists of dense osseous parts ; and of membranous sacs for ous and the expansion-of the auditory nerve, which are contained branous within the former. It is divided into an osseous and a mem- parts* branous labyrinth. - ' • * .* • A. The osseous labyrinth consists of three parts, viz. the 'Consti-' vestibule, the semicircular canals, and the cochlea; these of the communicate externally with the tympanum, and internally part, with the meatus internus that transmits the'auditory nerve. The vestibule is the common cen'tral cavity of the osseous vesti- labyrinth, and is placed behind the cochlea but in front of1™16' the semicircular canals. f « • •784 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. Dissec- Dissection. — This cavity may be seen on the dry bone see it. that has been used for the preparation of the tympanum. The bone is to be sawn through vertically close to the inner wall of the tympanum, so as to lay bare this wall and the fenestra ovalis leading into the vestibule: in this section one of the semicircular canals (horizontal) may be laid open just above the fenestra ovalis. By enlarging the fenestra ovalis a very little in a direction upwards and forwards, the end of the superior semicircular canal, and the vestibular space will appear. Other views of the cavity may be obtained by sections of the bone in different directions., according to the skill and the knowledge of the dissector. Form, The vestibular space is somewhat oval in form, the extre- mities of the oval being placed forwards and backwards, and the under part or floor is more narrowed than the upper part dimen- or roof. It measures about ^ of an inch in different direc- slons* tions, but it is narrower from without inwards. The follow- ing objects are to be noted on the boundaries of the space. Aper. In front, close to the outer wall, is a large aperture leading fore and into the cochlea; and behind are five round openings of the behind. the three semicircular canals. ture. Crest on inner wall outer - The outer wall corresponds to the tympanic cavity, and in an aper- it is the aperture of the fenestra ovalis. On the inner wall, nearer the front than the back of the cavity, is a vertical ridge or crista, In front of the ridge is fossa in a small circular depression, fovea hemispherica, which pre- front of gentg anteriorly some minute apertures for nerves, and cor- responds to the bottom of the meatus auditorius internus. and an Behind the crest of bone, near the common opening of two b2hfnd.ct of the semicircular canals, is the opening of the aqueduct of the vestibule, which ends on the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. Roof has On the roof is a slight transversely oval depression, fovea a fossa. semi_eniptica^ which is separated from the fovea hemisphe- rica by a continuation of the crista before mentioned on the inner wall. Three The semicircular canals are three osseous tubes, which canals, ^ situate behind the vestibule, and are named from their form. prepara- Dissection.— These small canals will be easily brought them; into view by the removal of the surrounding bone by meansSEMICIRCULAE CANALS. 785 of a file or some cutting instrument. Two may be seen opening near the aperture made in the vestibule, and may be followed thence ; but the third is altogether towards the pos- terior aspect of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The canals are of unequal lengths, but each forms more length; A terraina. than half a circle : they communicate at each end with the tion °y J % five vestibule, and the contiguous ends of two are blended to- ?Pen- ings; gether so as to give but five openings into that cavity. Each is marked by one dilated extremity which is called the united1- ampulla. When a tube is cut across it is not circular, but is compressed laterally, and measures about °f an inch, £?zrnland though in the ampulla the size is as large again. From a difference in the direction taken by the tubes, They are * 7 named they have been named superior and posterior vertical, and horizontal. The superior vertical canal crosses the superior vertical, upper border of the petrous part of the temporal bone, where it forms a projection. Its extremities are more dis- tant than in the other tubes: its outer end is marked by the ampulla, whilst the inner is joined with the following. The posterior vertical tube is directed backwards from its junc-posterior tion with the preceding towards the posterior surface of the temporal bone ; the upper end is united with the superior vertical canal to form a common tube, and the lower end is free and dilated. The horizontal canal has separate aper- and na- tures, and is the shortest of the three. Deeper in position than the superior vertical, it lies in the substance of the bone nearly on a level with the fenestra ovalis; its dilated end is at the outer side close above that aperture. Cochlea. — This part of the osseous labyrinth has a posi- Cochlea, tion anterior to the vestibule, and has received its name from its resemblance to a snail's shell. Dissection. — To obtain a view of the cochlea in the dried Dissec- tion tor bone, it will be needful to cut or file away gradually on the "in <*ry preparation before used for displaying the vestibule, the sur- face of bone forming the promontory of the tympanum ; or this may be done on another piece of bone in which the semicircular canals are not laid bare. The horizontal direc- tion of this body will be best seen by cutting away the bone above it. To dissect the same parts in the recent state, a and recent softened bone should be used. bone. The cochlea is conical in form, and is placed almost hori- Form 3 EDISSECTION OF THE EAE. nd si- zontally in front of the vestibular space. The base of this aation body is turned to the meatus auditorius internus, and is perforated by small apertures ; whilst the apex is directed to the upper and anterior part of the inner wall of the tym- panum, opposite the canal for the tensor tympani muscle. Its length is about a quarter of an inch, and its width at the lesem- base is about the same. Resembling a snail-shell in con- ies a nail- struction, the cochlea consists of a tube wound spirally round hell m 7 ... ome a central part or axis ; but it differs from a shell in the fact espects. n . of the tube being subdivided into two by a partition, and in the circumstance of the central part or axis being much thicker. >arts of In the description of the cochlea it will be necessary to hecoch- 1 J ?a. notice separately the axis or centre, the spiral tube, and the partition with the two passages. i. spiral The spiral tube forms two turns and a half around the ube . ' losed axis, and terminates above in a closed extremity, named the ,t one nd ^ cupola. When measured along the outer side, the tube is ums;2 about one inch and a half long; its diameter at the begin- nentUre" ning is about one-tenth of an inch, but it gradually dimi- nishes to half that size towards the opposite end. Of the turns that the tube makes, the first is much the largest: this projects at its commencement into the tympanum, and gives rise to the eminence of the promontory on the inner wall of that cavity. The second turn is included within the first. The last half turn bends sharply round, and presents a free s du semilunar margin at one side. In the recent bone the tube ntotwo. is divided into two passages (scalse) by a septum : in the dry bone a remnant of this partition is seen in the form of a thin plate of bone (lamina spiralis) ; and, on the outer wall, op- posite this ridge of bone, is a slight groove. a central The axis or modiolus (collumella) consists of the bony sub- ax^ °r stance included within the coils of the spiral tube: it is limited externally by a condensed stratum — the wrall of the spiral tube; and is formed internally of a porous material, is porous Its shape is conical, and its size diminishes rapidly towards nicaiT the last half turn of the spiral tube, where it is very thin but how it not porous, and may be said to end; though it is commonly de- ?hTthe scr^e(^ as being continued upwards from this spot to the tip buium1" °* ^e cocn^ea? anc* as being bent and enlarged, and pre-787 COCHLEA AND ITS SEPTUM. senting a free margin.* The axis is perforated by canals that transmit vessels and nerves in the fresh state; and a central one is larger than the others. Winding around the axis is the Around to to it is a thin osseous plate before referred to, the lamina spiralis, spiral ... . piece of which projects a certain distance into the spiral tube, and bone, forms part of the septum. Septum of the spiral tube. — The partition dividing the Septum tube of the cochlea into two passages, in the recent bone, tube r & ' ' bony and consists of an osseous and a membranous portion. mem. branous. a. The osseous part, which is formed by the lamina spi- osseous ralis, extends about half way across the tube. It begins in - part 5 feriorly in the vestibule, where it is wide, and is attached to the outer wall so as to shut out the fenestra rotunda from that cavity; and diminishing in size in its progress, it ends in a free point, named the hamulus, opposite the margin of ^v|"^s the modiolus at the last half turn of the cochlea. Between the a P°int point in which the osseous lamina terminates and the margin referred to, is a space that, in the recent state, is converted by membrane into a foramen (hiatus helicotrema), and allows the intercommunication of the passages of the cochlear over an aperture, tube. The lamina spiralis is formed by two plates of bone, through' that enclose osseous canals for vessels and nerves, and are the scalar separated furthest at the modiolus. The side turned to the lower of the two cochlear passages is freely pierced by nerves differ, and vessels; whilst the opposite is covered in the outer fifth two of its extent, by a structure resembling cartilage, which ends on upper in a toothed edge near the margin of the spiral lamina, and theeden- has been named denticulate lamina. (Todd and Bowman.)| struc- b. The membranous part reaches from the edge of the Mem\ lamina spiralis to the groove in the outer wall of the tube of JJJJJ?us the cochlea, and is continued upwards to the top of that tube Awards- beyond the terminal hook of the lamina spiralis. Near the PieCe bony part of the partition this structure has a glassy appear- gldssy' ance, like the elastic layer of the cornea; but beyond that * Some Anatomists apply the term infundibulum to the appearance that this bent part of the modiolus (?top of the cochlear tube) presents when it is looked at from the second turn of the cochlea. Others under- stand by the term the funnel-shaped space enclosed in the terminal half bend of the tube of the cochlea. t In the work before referred to, Physiological Anatomy, &c. 3 e 2DISSECTION OF THE EAR. 788 spot it is a gelatinous-looking tissue, to which the authors above quoted have given the name cochlearis muscle* Two ^ Scalce of the cochlea.—These are the two passages into thecoch. which the spiral tube of the cochlea is divided by its septum. lear tube 1 J A They are placed the one above the other, and are named scala vestibuli and scala tympani; the former is nearest the that join apex of the cochlea. Above they communicate through the above, A J 0 and end aperture named belicotrema; and below they end differently rateiy; as the names express : one (scala vestibuli) opens into the front of the vestibule; the other (scala tympani) is shut out from the vestibular cavity, and is closed below by the mem- differ in- forane 0f the fenestra rotunda. On the whole they are extent, J at spots6 nearty eoiual in size> but eacn nas certain peculiarities: thus the vestibular scala is largest above and extends to the apex of the cochlea; whilst the tympanic scala is largest near the base, and connected with it is the small aqueduct of the cochlea, that is situate close to the ridge or crest near the beginning of the scala, and opens on the under aspect of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. Fibro- Lining membrane of the osseous labyrinth.—A thin mem- mem- brane of a fibro-serous character lines the vestibule, the semi- nnes the circular canals, and the scalae of the cochlea, and is likewise rinth; continued into the aqueducts of the vestibule and cochlea.f On the outer wall of the vestibule it closes the opening into the tympanic cavity. The outer surface of the membrane is has an adherent to the bone ; but the inner is covered by an epithe- Sum and Hum, and secretes a thin serous fluid, liquor Cotunnii, or a°fluidns perilymph. This fluid in the interior fills the scabs of the cochlea! cochlea, and surrounds the membranous labyrinth. Two B. The membranous labyrinth is constituted of sacs inCfluida containing fluid, over which the auditory nerve is expanded. rinthJ" The sacs are two in number, viz. the utricle and the saccule, * The muscular nature of this structure is questioned by Kolliker. He considers it rather ligamentous. f This membrane was considered by Breschet to be originally part of the fibro-serous lining of the skull. It is supposed by him that the membrane has been gradually enclosed by bone, until the connection between it and the parent structure has been obliterated, except by means of the small process that lines the aqueduct of the vestibule, — Hecherches Anatomiques et Physiologiques,789 MEMBRANOUS LABYRINTH. and have the general form of the surrounding bony parts: they are confined to the vestibule and the semicircular canals, and are surrounded by the perilymph. Dissection. — The delicate internal parts of the ear, with Dissec- their vessels and nerves, cannot be dissected except on a them m temporal bone, that has been put in spirits, and afterwards bone, softened in acid. The previous instructions for the dissec- tion of the osseous labyrinth will guide the student to the situation of the membranous structures within it, but the surrounding softened material must be removed with great care. A lens and a microscope will be needed for the com- plete examination of the sacs. For the display of the blood-' vessels a minute injection should be made of them. The utricle, or the common sinus, is the larger of the two The sacs, and is situate at the posterior and upper part of the situation vestibule, where it corresponds to the fovea semi-elliptica in the roof. It is transversely oval in form, and connected with and it posteriorly are three looped tubes, that are prolonged into form; the semicircular canals. The sac and its offsets are filled contains with a clear fluid, like water, which is named endolymph ; and in the wall of the sac is a small calcareous deposit and A otolith. (otolith) opposite the entrance of the nerve into it. The prolongations into the semicircular canals are smaller Tubes ^ than the osseous tubes, being only one third of their diame- into the ' & J . arched ter ; and the interval between the bone and the membrane is canals, filled by the perilymph. In form they resemble the bony cases, for they aref marked at one end by a dilatation corre- sponding to the ampulla of the osseous tubes, and, further, dilated two are blended at one end, like the canals they occupy: end, they communicate with the utricle by five openings, and are filled with the endolymphic fluid of that sac. At each am- contain a pullary enlargement there is in the interior a transverse pro- jection into the cavity, and at that spot a branch of the auditory nerve enters the walL The saccule is a smaller and a rounder cyst than the utricle, smaller and is placed in front of it in the hollow of the fovea hemi- ?ore1Sthe" spherica. Like the larger sac, it has a translucent wall, in which is an otolith opposite the entrance of the nerve; it is also filled by endolymph. It is doubtful whether the two Do the sacs communicate. two join? Structure of the sacs. — The wall of the membranous waiiof790 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. the sac labyrinth is translucent and firm ; but it is more opaque strata, where the vessels and nerves enter it. Three strata enter into the construction of the membrane;, together with blood- vessels and nerves. The outer covering is loose and floccu- lent, and easily detached, and contains irregular pigment cells. The middle stratum is clear and tough, and appears like cartilage, or, where it is thin, like the hyaloid membrane of the eyeball (Todd and Bowman). And the inner one is formed by a layer of nucleated cells, that are easily separated from one another, otoliths The small calcareous masses, or the otoliths, consist of grains of minute grains of carbonate of lime deposited in cells ceils. (Krieger), and connected by fibrous tissue with the inner part of the wall of the utricle and saccule. Within the en- largement of each semicircular tube some calcareous material (otolith) is contained in the cells lining it.—(Todd and Bowman.) Blood- Blood-vessels. — The membranes of the labyrinthic of the cavity receive their blood from an artery that enters the brane. internal auditory meatus with the nerve. The veins are united into one, and end in the superior petrosal sinus, internal The internal auditory artery arises from the basilar trunk artery within the skull (p. 187.), and enters the internal meatus with the auditory nerve. In the bottom of that hollow it divides into two branches — one for the vestibule, another for the cochlea. has a O,. The branch to the vestibule, after piercing the wall of to mem- the cavity, subdivides into small branches, that ramify over sacs; the exterior of the membranous labyrinth, and the tubes occupying the semicircular canals. The vessels end in a termina- network of capillaries in the substance of the membranous on' wall, as well as on the interior, about the termination of the nerves. and an- The branch to the cochlea subdivides into twigs that theecoch- enter the canals in the modiolus. Small offsets from these ,ea* are directed outwards through holes in the lamina spiralis, and communicate together in loops near the margin of that Mode of osseous zone, but in greatest number on that surface to- termma- warcjs tjie tympanic scala. From this anastomosis vessels are supplied to the membrane lining the scalse, and to the structure called cochlearis muscle. A capillary vessel isVESSELS AND NERVES. 791 placed longitudinally in the membranous part of the septum scalarum, and communicates here and there with the arterial loops before mentioned. The vein. — One branch of vein is derived from the vein to cochlea, and another from the membranous labyrinth: the sinus, two are united near the cochlea, and the trunk ends in the superior petrosal sinus of the base of the skull. Nerve of the Labyrinth. — Only one special nerve, Auditory auditory, is distributed to the labyrinth (p. 195.). Entering the internal auditory meatus, the nerve divides into two divides branches, like the artery, viz., an anterior for the cochlea, and a posterior for the membranous labyrinth. In both branches there are nerve cells contained: in that to the labyrinth they form a reddish gray swelling, which was named intumescentia ganglioformis by Scarpa. a. The cochlear branch divides at the base of the modio- Acoch^ lus into twigs that enter the apertures in that body. These branch, small divisions of the nerve are directed outwards with the vessels in the canals in the lamina spiralis, but nearest the tympanic scala, where they form a plexiform arrangement, with lengthened interspaces. Beyond the bone the nerve whose tubules cease to divide, and reach a short distance into the end in membranous part of the septum scalarum, where they are tum!ep arranged in conical sets parallel to one another; but their mode of ending is not satisfactorily made out. The nerve retaining fibres do not lose the white substance of Schwann at their sub- ..... , stance. termination, but retain it in the minutest tubules. b. The vestibular branch ends in three nerves for the Vestibu- lar membranous labyrinth : these pierce the cribriform plate in branch the bottom of the meatus, and are thus distributed : — one into appertains to the utricle, and to the enlargements on the tubes contained in the superior vertical and horizontal semi- circular canals ; a second ends in the saccule ; and the third belongs to the ampullary swelling on the tube of the posterior vertical semicircular canal. Termination of the vestibular nerves. — The ending of the their ter- nerve fibres on the sacs is different from the termination of tion; them on the ampullary enlargements. In the membranous sacs the nerve enters where the otolith on the is situate, and its filaments separate, some passing amongstsacs the calcareous matter, and spread out on the inner surface.DISSECTION OF THE EAR. 792 Meeting with the lining of nucleated cells, the tubules lose vh?te tne wn*te substance of Schwann, and probably end in a sub- ti fibrous film," like that of the inner stratum of the nervous itance, 7 layer of the retina (Todd and Bowman). The same authors state that some of the tubules surrounded by the otolith in fibred aPPear to terminate in free points, as in the frog, without nside. iosing their white substance. Irched amPu^ary enlargement of the tubes of the semi- ubes circular canals the nerve enters the concave side, where it .hey ?orm a forms a forked eminence (Steifensand), corresponding to the tion, and projection in the interior. The nerve tubules do not spread loops out as in the &acs, but are confined to the swelling, in which therein. ° they end in a series of loops (Wagner). In the cod-fish the nerves are said to terminate in free extremities as well as in loops. — (Todd and Bowman.)INDEX. The letter (o) prefixed to the figures refers to the origin, (c) to the course, and (d) to the distribution of a nerve or vessel that is described in different pages. Abdomen, 493. surface of, 458. Abdominal aponeurosis, 466. cavity, 493. hernia, 482. regions, 494.' ring, external, 467. internal, 476. 484. Abducens nerve, (o) 194. (c) 20. (d) 50. Abductor indicis, 315. minimi digiti, 312. pedis, 718. oculi, 45. pollicis manus, 310. pedis, 717. Accelerator urinae muscle, 447. Accessorius muscle, 722. ad sacro-lumbalem, 409. Accessory nerve of the obturator, (o) 578. (d) 676. pudic artery, 603. Acini of the liver, structure, 497. Acromial artery, inferior, 226. superior, 365. cutaneous nerves, 267. thoracic artery, 257. Acromioclavicular articulation, 271. Adductor brevis, 676. longus, 675. magnus, 679. 702. minimi digiti, 312. oculi, 50. pollicis manus, 311. pedis, 723. Air cells of the lung, 378. Alar ligaments of the knee, 739. Alveolar plexus, 149. Ampulla?, membranous, 789. of the semi-circular canals, 785. Amygdaloid lobe of cerebellum, 232. Anastomotic artery of brachial, 280. . of femoral, 666. Anconeus muscle, 319. Angular artery, 29. vein, 7. Ankle-joint, 743. Annular ligament of ankle, anterior, 729. external, 730. internal, 714. ligament of wrist, anterior, 315. posterior, 316. 323. protuberance, 203. Annulus of Vieussens, 351. Anterior commissure, 223. medullary velum, 234. Anti-helix, 37. Anti-tragus, 37. muscle, 38. Aorta, 362. abdominal, 512. 565. thoracic, 380. Aortic arch, 362. opening, 564. plexus, 511. sinus, 363. Aperture of the aorta, 358. of the cavae, 352. of the coronary arteries, 358. vein, 352. of the Eustachian tube, 132. of the femoral artery, 680. of the larynx, 132. of the mouth, 132. of the nares, 131. for the oesophagus, 132. of the pulmonary artery, 355. veins, 356. Aponeurosis, epicranial, 3. of external oblique, 466. of the femoral artery, 665. intercostal, 261. of internal oblique, 470. lumbar, 403. palmar, 305. of the pharynx, 129.INDEX. '94 Aponeurosis, plantar, 716. of the soft palate, 133. temporal, 4. of the transversalis muscle, 403. 472. vertebral, 407. Vppendages of the eye, 34. Yppendices epiplo'icas, 505. Appendix auriculas, 351. 356. casci, 533. vermiformis, 533. \qua Morgagni, 771. Aqueduct of the cochlea, 788. of Fallopius, 776. of Sylvius, 223. of the vestibule, 784. Aqueous humour, 765. Arachnoid membrane of the brain, 183. of the spine, 424. Arbor vitas cerebelli, 235. vitae uteri, 630. Arch of aorta, 362. crural or femoral, 655. of diaphragm, 564. palmar deep, 313. superficial, 306. plantar, 724. of soft palate, 133. Arciform fibres, 202. Areola of the mamma, 248. Arm, dissection of, 273. veins of, 274. Arter. acromialis, inferior, 257. anastomotica brachialis, 280. magna, 666. angularis faciei, 29. aorta abdominalis, 512. 565. thoracica, 362. 380. articulares inferiores, 697. superiores, 697. articularis azygos, 698. auricularis posterior, 6. 84. auditorius, 187. 790. axillaris, 255. basilaris, 187. brachialis, 279. brachio-cephalica, 364. bronchiales, 379. 381. buccalis, 92. capsularis inferior, 566. media, 566. superior, 567. carotis communis dextra, 78. sinistra, 123. 365. externa, 81. interna, 21. 107. 188. carpi ulnaris anterior, 300. posterior, 300. Arter. carpi radialis anterior, 297. posterior, 323. centralis retinas, 49. 767. cerebelli inferior, 187. inferior anterior, 187. superior, 187. cerebri anterior, 189. media, 189. posterior, 188. cervicalis ascendens, 74. cervicalis profunda, 74. choroidea cerebri, 189. ciliares anteriores, 49- 764. posteriores, 49. 764. circumflexa anterior, 258. 268. externa, 671. ilii interna, 481. ilii superficialis, 648. interna, 481. 693.° posterior, 258. 268. coccygea, 689. cochlearis, 790. coeliaca, 516. colica dextra, 508. media, 508. sinistra, 509. comes nervi ischiadici, 689. mediani, 303. phrenici, 263. communicans cerebri anterior, 189. posterior, 189. palmaris, 306. plantaris, 725. coronaria dextra, 348. labii inferioris, 29. superioris, 29. sinistra, 349. ventriculi, 516. corporis bulbosi, 452. cavernosi, 452. cremasterica, 481. crico-thyroidea, 83. cystica, 518. deferentialis, 561. dentalis anterior, 106. inferior, 91. 96. superior, 93. diaphragmatica, 567. digitales manus, 307. pedis, 724. dorsales pollicis, 323. dorsalis carpi radialis, 323. carpi ulnaris, 300. indicis, 323. linguae, 101. pedis, 724. 733. penis, 453. pollicis pedis, 734.INDEX. 795 Arter. dorsalis scapulae, 257. 273. epigastrica, 480. superficialis, 463. 648. ethmoidals, anterior, 49. posterior, 49. facialis, 29. 83. femoralis, 661. 666. frontalis, 6. 49. gastrica?, 516, 517. gastro-epiplo'ica, dextra, 517. sinistra, 517. glutea, 601. 687. haemorrhoidales inferiores, 442. ha?morrhoidalis superior, 510. 604. helicina?, 621. hepatica, 517. 547. hyoidea lingualis, 101. thyroideae, 83. hypogastrica, 600. iliaca communis, 568. externa, 568. interna, 599. ileo-colica, 508. lumbalis, 601. incisoria, 96. infra-acromialis, 257. orbitalis, 105. scapularis, 266. innominata, 364. intercostales anteriores, 263. rami anteriores, 264. 381. posteriores, 381. intercostalis superior, 74. 382. interlobulares, 547. interossea, 300. anterior, 303. posterior, 322. interossea? manus, 323- pedis, 734. intestinales, 507. intra-spinales, 435. ischiadica, 603. 689. labialis inferior, 96. lachrymalis, 48. laryngealis inferior, 169. superior, 83. 168. lingualis, 100. lumbales, 579. rami anteriores, 580. posteriores, 416. magna pollicis manus, 313. pedis, 725. malleolares, 733. mammaria interna, 73. 263. 480. masseterica, 92. maxillaris interna, 91. mediastinal, 263. 381. meningea media, 17. 91. Arter. meningea parva, 17. 92. meningeal anteriores, 17. posteriores, 17. mesenterica inferior, 509. superior, 507. metacarpa radialis, 323. ulnaris, 300. metatarsea, 733. musculo-phrenica, 263. mylo-hyoidea, 91. nasalis, 49. lateralis, 29. septi, 29. nutritia femoris, 679. fibula?, 713. humeri, 280. tibiae, 712. obturatoria, 602. 681. occipitalis, 6. 84. cesophageales, 381. 516. ophthalmica, 21. 48. ovariana, 604. palatina inferior, 83. superior, 148. palmaris profunda, 306. palpebralis inferior, 49. superior, 49. pancreatica?, 516. pancreatico-duodenalis, 507. 518, perforantes femorales, 679. 702. mammarise interna?, 263. manus, 313. pedis, 724. pericardiacae, 381. perinaei superficialis, 445. peronea, 713. anterior, 713. petrosal, 17. pharyngea ascendens, 110. phrenica? inferiores, 567. superiores, 370. plantaris externa, 719. 724. interna, 719. poplitea, 696. princeps cervicis, 415. pollicis, 313. profunda cervicis, 74. 415. femoris, 662. 678. inferior, 280. superior, 280. 286. pterygoidea?, 92. pterygo-palatina, 149. pudenda? externa?, 648. 662. interna?, 452. 603. pulmonalis, 361. 379. dextra, 361. sinistra, 36 K pylorica inferior, 518.INDEX. 96 rter. pylorica superior, 517. radialis, 296. 313. 323. indicis, 313. ranina, 101. recurrens interossea posterior, 322. radialis, 297. tibialis, 732. ulnaris anterior, 300. posterior, 300. renales, 566. sacra media, 605. sacro-lateralis, 601, scapularis posterior, 405. sciatica, 603. 689. sigmoidea, 509. spermatica, 561. 567. spheno-palatina, 148. spinales posteriores, 186. spinalis anterior, 186. splenica, 516. 540. sterno-mastoidea, 83. stylo-mastoidea, 84. subclavia dextra, 70. sinistra, 122. 365. sublingualis, 101. submentalis, 83. subscapularis, 257. superficialis cervicalis, 405. volae, 297. supra-orbitalis, 6. 49. scapularis, 73. 272. spinalis, 272. tarsea, 733. temporales profunda?, 92. temporalis, 84. anterior, 6. media, 85. posterior, 6. superficialis, 6. thoracica acromialis, 257. alaris, 257. longa, 257. suprema, 257. thyroidea ima, 74. inferior, 73. superior, 82. tibialis antica, 732. postica, 712. 714. tonsillaris, 83. transversalis colli, 73. 405. faciei, 30. 85. perinsei, 445. pontis, 187. pubis, 480. tympanica, 92. 781. inferior, 781. superior, 781. ulnaris, 299. 306. umbilicalis, 600. Arter. uterina, 604. vaginales hepatis, 547. vaginalis, 604. vertebralis, 72. 177. 186. vesicalis inferior, 601. superior, 602. vestibuli, 790. vidiana, 149. Articular popliteal arteries, 697. nerves, 699. Articulation, acromio-clavicular, 271. astragalo-scaphoid, 746. astragalus to os calcis, 745. atlo-axoidean, 179. 181. of bones of the tympanum, 780. of carpal bones, 329. carpo-metacarpal, 331. of cervical vertebrae, 179. chondro-costal, 393. sternal, 393. of coccygeal bones, 637. coraco-clavicular, 271. of costal cartilages, 393. costoclavicular, 182. vertebral, 391. crico-arytaenoid, 173. thyroid, 173. of cuneiform bones, 748. cuneiform to cuboid, 748. to scaphoid, 748. of dorsal vertebrae, 393. femoro-tibial or knee, 737. humero-cubital or elbow, 324. ilio-femoral or hip, 702. of lower jaw, 89. of lumbar vertebrae, 393. of the metacarpal bones, 330. metacarpo-phalangeal, 332. metatarsal, 748. metatarso-phalangeal, 751. occipito-atloidean, 179. axoidean, 180. os calcis to cuboid, 747. to scaphoid, 746. peroneo-tibial, 742. phalangeal of fingers, 333. of toes, 751. of pubic symphysis, 639. radio-carpal or wrist, 327. cubital inferior, 328. superior, 326. sacro-coccygeal, 637. iliac, 637. vertebral, 636. scaphoid to cuboid, 748. to cuneiform, 747. scapuloclavicular, 271.INDEX. Articulation, scapulo humeral, 287. sterno-clavicular, 182. sternum, pieces of, 393. tarso-metatarsal, 749. temporo-maxillary, 89. thyro-arytaenoid, 173. tibio-tarsal or ankle, 743. of vertebras, 393. Arcus externus diaphragmatis, 564. internus diaphragmatis, 564. Arytaeno-epiglottidean folds, 132. Arytaenoid cartilages, 171. glands, 136. muscle, 162. Ascending cervical artery, 74. vein, 73. pharyngeal artery, 110. vein, 111. Attollens aurem, 2. oculum, 45. Attrahens aurem, 2. Auditory artery, 790. tube, external, 773. nerve, (o) 195. (d) 791. Auricle of the ear, 37. Auricles of the heart, 347. left, 355. right, 351. structure of, 360. Auriculae, 351. 356. Auricular artery, posterior, (d) 6. (o) 84. nerves, anterior, 8. 95. inferior, 95. posterior, 8. 40. 115. vein, 7. nerve of vagus, (o) 115. (d) 783. Auriculo-temporal nerve, 8. 94. Auriculo-ventricular aperture, left, 357. right, 354. Auricularis magnus nerve, 8. Axilla, 250 dissection of, 245. 249. Axillary artery, 255. glands, 252. plexus, 258. vein, 258. Axis, cceliac, of artery, 516. thyroid, of artery, 73. Azygos, artery, 698. ganglion, 608. veins, (o) 575. (d) 383. uvula? muscle, 136. Back, dissection of, 398. Base of brain, 206. of the skull, arteries of, 17. 21. dissection of, 13. nerves of, 18. 22. Basilar artery, 187. sinus, 16. Basilic vein, 275. Beak of the corpus callosum, 210. Biceps femoris muscle, 700. 738. flexor cubiti, 278. 288. 316. Bicuspid teeth, 138. Bile ducts, 519. 529. structure, 532. Biventer cervicis muscle, 411. Biventral lobe, 232. Bladder, 614. ligaments of, 586. 588. connections of, 589. structure of, 614. Bones of the ear, 778. ligaments of, 780. muscles of, 780. Brachial aponeurosis, 277. artery, 279. plexus, 75. 258. veins, 280. Brachialis anticus, 283. 316. Brachio-cephalic artery, 364. vein, left, 367. right, 367. Brain, base of, 206. examination of interior, 213. membranes of, 10. 183. origin of nerves, 190. preservation of, 13. removal of, 12. vessels of, 186. Breast, 247. Bronchial arteries, (o) 381. (d) 379. glands, 385. veins, 379. 381. Bronchus, left, 375. right, 375. structure of, 377. Brunner's glands, 531. Buccal artery, 92. nerve, 94. Buccinator muscle, 28. Bulb of the urethra, 594. artery of, 452. (d) 622. nerve of, 453. Bulbi vestibuli, 628. Bulbous part of the urethra, 619. Bulbus olfactorius, 192. Calamus scriptorius, 236. Calices of the kidney, 553. Caliciform papillae, 154. Canal of Petit, 769. of the tensor tympani, 777. Capsular arteries, inferior, 566. middle, 566,'98 INDEX. Capsular arteries, superior, 567. veins, 571. ligament of the hip, 703. of the knee, 737. of the shoulder, 288. of the thumb, 331. Japsule of crystalline lens, 771. of Glisson, 546. supra-renal, 554. laput coli, 533. gallinaginis, 618. ardiac nerve, inferior, (o) 121. (d) 373. middle, (o) 121. (d) 373. of pneumo-gastric, (o) 116. 371. (d) 350. 371. superior, (o) 120. (d) 350. 373. plexus, 350. 373. veins, 349. arneae columnae, 353. 357. arotid artery, external, 81. internal, (d) 21. 188. (c) 107. left common, 123. 365. right common, 78. plexus, 22 arpal artery, radial anterior, 297. posterior, 323. ulnar anterior, 300. posterior, 300. irpo-metacarpal articulation, 331. irtilage, arytenoid, 171. cricoid, 170. cuneiform, 171. of the ear, 38. thyroid, 170. triangular of the nose, 141. Cartages of the nose, 32. ofSantorini, 171. of trachea, 174. iruncula lachrymalis, 36. irunculee myrtiformes, 626. iva, inferior, 570. superior, 366. tvernous body, 620. artery of, (o) 452. (d) 621. plexus, 22. sinus, 16. vities of the heart, 350. ivity of the omentum, 503. ntral artery of the retina, (o) 49. (d) ^ 767. pillar of the cochlea, 786. point of the perinaeum, 447. ntrum ovale cerebri, 214. phalic vein, 275. rebellar arteries, inferior, 187. superior, 187. Cerebellum, form of, 229. lobes of, 231. structure of, 233. Cerebral artery, anterior, 189. middle, 189. posterior, 188. protuberance, form, 203. structure, 204. Cerebrum, division into lobes, 207. form of, 205. structure, 226. Cervical fascia, 55. 62. ganglion, inferior, 121. middle, 121. superior, 1 ] 9. glands, 60. nerves, anterior branches, 75.177. posterior, 177. 399. 412. plexus of nerves, 76. deep branches, 77. superficial, 59. Cervicalis, ascendens artery, 74. muscle, 409. vein, 73. profunda artery, (o) 74. (d) 415. vein, 73. 416. superficialis nerve, 59. 61. Cervico-facial nerve, 41. Cervix uteri, 629. vesica?, 591. Chamber of the eye, anterior, 765. posterior, 765. Cheeks, 138. Chiasma of the optic nerves, 193. Chondro-costal articulations, 393. sternal articulations, 393. Chorda tympani nerve, (o) 151. (d) 96. Chordae tendineae, 354. vocales, 166. Willisii, 11. Choroid artery of the brain, 189. 222. coat of the eye, 759. plexuses of the brain, 222. 238. veins of the eye, 761. of the brain, 222. Choroidal epithelium, 761. Cilia, 34. Ciliary arteries, (o) 49. (d) 764. ligament, 762. muscle, 762. processes of the choroid, 760. of the suspensory liga- ment, 769. nerves of nasal, (o) 47. (d) 765. of lenticular ganglion, 48. 765. Circle of Willis, 189.INDEX. 799 Circular sinus, 16. Circumflex artery, anterior, 268. external, 671. iliac artery, deep, 481. 569. superficial, 648. internal, 481. 693. posterior, 268. nerve,'(o) 259. (d) 268. Clavicular cutaneous nerves, 60. Clitoris, 625. Cochlea, 785. nerve of, 791. vessels of, 790. Coccygeal artery, 689. muscle, 584. nerve, 420. 607. C cecum coli, 533. connections of, 498. structure of, 535. Cceliac artery, 516. plexus, 522. Colic artery, left, 509. middle, 508. right, 508. veins, 508. 510. Colon, 497—499. course of, 497. structure of, 535. Columnse carnese, 353. Columns of the cord, 432. vagina, 627. Comes nervi ischiadici artery, 689. phrenici artery, 263. 370. Commissure, anterior, 223. of the cerebellum, 235. of the cord, 432. 433. great, 228. of the optic nerves, 193. posterior, 224. soft, 223. Commissural fibres of the medulla, 202. Communicating artery of anterior cere- bral, 189. of posterior cere- bral, 189. in the palm, 306. saphenous nerve, 699. 707. Complexus muscle, 410. Compressor of the nose, 25. of the urethra, 450. Conarium, 225. Concha, 37. Coni vasculosi, 559. Conical papillae, 154. Conjoined tendon, 472. Conjunctiva, 36. Conoid ligament, 271. Constrictor inferior, 130. Constrictor of the fauces, 135. middle, 130. superior, 130. urethras, 450. Convolutions of the brain, 212. of corpus callosum, 212. of hemisphere, 212. of longitudinal fissure, 212. of Sylvian fissure, 208. Coraco-brachialis muscle, 278. clavicular articulation. 271. humeral ligament, 288. Cordiform tendon, 563. Cords of the abdominal wall, 489. Cornea, 757. structure, 758. Cornicula laryngis, 171. Cornua of lateral ventricle, 216. Corona glandis, 594. Coronary vessels of the heart, 348. of the lips, 29. artery of the stomach, 516. ligament of the liver, 506. plexus of the stomach, 522. plexuses of the heart, 350. sinus, 349. vein of the stomach, 518. Corpora albicantia, 209. Arantii, 355. 358. cavernosa, 593. 620. Malpighiana, 539. 552. mamillaria, 209. olivaria, 199, 200. pyramidalia anteriora, 198. posteriora, 199. quadrigemina, 226. restiformia, 175. 177. Corpus callosum, 210. 214. ciliare, 761. dentatum cerebelli, 235. denticulatum, 426. fimbriatum, uteri, 633. geniculatum externum, 225. internum, 225. Highmori, 557. luteum, 632. olivare, 199, 200. spongiosum urethra?, 593. 622. striatum, 219. thyroideum, 124. Corpuscules of Malpighi, 539. 552. Corrugator supercilii muscle, 24. Cortex of the tongue, 158. Cortical substance of the kidney, 550. Costo-clavicular ligament, 182. coracoid membrane, 254. transverse ligaments, 392. Cotyloid ligament, 703. Covered band of Reil, 212.800 INDEX. Cowper's glands, 451. Cranial aponeurosis, 3. nerves, 18. (o) 190. Cremaster muscle, 471. Cremasteric artery, 478. 481. fascia, 471. Cribriform fascia, 649. Crico-arytaenoid articulation, 173. muscle, lateral, 163. posterior, 162. thyroid articulation, 173. membrane, 173. muscle, 162. Cricoid cartilage, 170. Crista vestibuli, 784. Crucial ligaments, 740. Crura cerebelli, 234. cerebri, 208. of the diaphragm, 563. of the fornix, 225. Crureus muscle, 669. Crural arch, 655. deep, 479. canal, 657. hernia, 490. 658. nerve, (o) 578. (d) 671. ring, 491. 658. sheath, 491. 656. Crypts of Lieberkuehn, 530. Crystalline lens, 770. structure, 771. capsule, 771. Cupola cochlea?, 786. Cuneiform articulations, 748. cartilages, 171. Cutaneous nerves of the abdomen, 461. of the arm, 276. of the back, 399. of the buttock, 683. of the face, 40. of the foot, back, 728. sole, 714. of the forearm, 291. of the hand, back, 292. 301. palm, 302. of the head, 7. of the leg, back, 706. front, 728. of the neck, behind, 399. fore part, 59. 61. of the perinaeum, 445. of the shoulder, 267. of the thigh, back, 700. front, 651., of the thorax, 246. Cystic artery, 518. Cystic duct, 548. plexus of nerves, 523. Dartoid tissue, 464. Decussation of the pyramids, 201. Deep cervical artery, (o) 74. (d) 415. crural arch, 479. transverse muscle of perinasum, 448. Deferential artery, 561. Deltoid ligament, 744. muscle, 267. Dens sapientiae, 138. Dental artery, anterior, 106. inferior, 91. 96 superior, 93. nerve, anterior, 105. inferior, 95. posterior, 105. Dentate fascia, 221. ligament, 426. Denticulate lamina, 787. Descendens noni nerve, 81. Depressor anguli oris, 28. epiglottidis, 163. labii inferioris, 28. alae nasi, 26. Diaphragm, 390. 562. arteries of, 370. 567. ' plexus of, 521. Digastric muscle, 79. nerve, 40. Digital arteries of plantar, 724. of radial, 313. of tibial, anterior, 725. of ulnar, 307. nerves of median, 308. of plantar, 720. of radial, 292. of ulnar, 307. Dilator of the nose, 25. Dissection of the abdomen, 458. of the abdominal cavity, 493. of the abdominal wall, 459. of the anterior commissure, 224. of the arm, 273. of the axilla, 245. of the back, 398. of the base of the skull, 13. of the brain, membranes, and nerves, 183. of the buttock, 682. of the cardiac plexus, 372. of the carotid artery, internal, 107. of the carotid plexus, 21. of the cerebellum, 229. of the cerebrum, 205. of the corpus callosum, 210. 214.INDEX. 801 Dissection of the corpus striatum, 219. of the crus cerebri, 208. of the external ear, 87. of the internal ear, 773. of the eighth, nerve, 111. of the eye, 755. lids, 34. of the face, 22. of femoral hernia, 490. of the fifth ventricle of the brain, 217. of the foot, back, 727. sole, 715. of the forearm, 289. | back, 316. front, 289. of the fourth ventricle, 235. of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, Ml. of the hand, back, 290. palm, 304. of the head, deep parts, 106. external parts, 1. internal parts, 9. of the heart, 345. of the hypogastric plexus, 510. of the inferior maxillary nerve, 85. 90. of the inguinal hernia, 482. region, 482. of the internal maxillary artery, 85. 90. of Jacobson's nerve, 782. of the labyrinth, 784. of the larynx, 161. cartilages, 169. muscles, 162. nerves, 167. of the lateral ventricles, 215. of the left side of the neck, 122. of the leg, back, 704. front, 727. of the ligaments of atlas and axis, 179. of the ligaments of atlas and occiput, 179. of the ligaments of axis and occiput, 180. of the ligaments of clavicle and scapula, 271. of the ligaments of hip-joint, 702. of the ligaments of jaw, 89. of the ligaments of lower limb, 737. of the ligaments of pelvis, 636. of the ligaments of ribs, 391. of the ligaments of shoulder, 287. 3 Dissection of the ligaments of upper limb, 324. of the ligaments of the verte- bra?, 393. of the lower limb, 645. of Meckel's ganglion, 144. of the medulla oblongata, 197. of the neck, 53. of the neck, anterior triangle, 60. 62. posterior triangle, 56. of the ninth nerve, 111. of the nose, 139. of the ophthalmic of the fifth nerve, 18. 42. of the orbit, 42. of the otic ganglion, 151. of the pelvis, female, 594. side view, 595. of the pelvis, male, 582. side view, 583. of the perinaeum, female, 455. male, 437. of the pharynx, 127. of the pneumo-gastric nerve, 111. of the pons, 203. of the popliteal space, 694. of the portio^dtrfa nerve, 39. 149 , of the portio mollis nerve, 789. of the pterygoid region, 85. of the sacral plexus, 606. of the saphenous opening, 653. of the semilunar ganglia, 520. of the shoulder, 267. of the soft palate, 133. of the solar plexus, 520. of the spermatic cord, 476. of the spinal cord, 423. of the submaxillary region, 97. of the superior maxillary nerve, 105. of the testis, 555. of the thigh, back, 694. front, 645. of the third ventricle, 222. of the thorax, 336. of the tongue, 153. of the triangular space of the thigh, 660. of the tympanum, 775. vessels and nerves, 782. of the upper limb, 244. of the vena cava inferior, 564. of the vidian nerve, 145. Divisions of the cord, 432. Dorsal artery of the foot, 724. 733. FINDEX. 802 Dorsal artery of the penis, 453. (d) 465. of the tongue, 101. of the scapula (o) 257. (d) 273. nerves, anterior branches, 389. 264. posterior branches, 414. of the penis, (o) 453. (d) 465. Dorsi-spinal veins, 416. Ductus ad nasum, 53. arteriosus, 361. communis choledochus, 519. cysticus, 548. ejaculatorius, 614. hepaticus, 543. lymphaticus, 75. 386. pancreaticus, 537. Stenonis, 3. thoracicus, 123. 386. Whartoni, 103. Duodenum, connections, 514. peritonaeum of, 505. structure, 527. Dura mater, 10. of the cord, 423. nerves of, 426. vessels of, 426. Ear, externa^ 37. internal, 773. Eighth nerve, 20. 112. (o) 195. Elastic layers of cornea, 758. Elbow-joint 324. Eminentia collateralis, 217. teres, 236. Encephalon, 205. Endocardium, 360. Endolymph, 789. Epididymis, 559. Epigastric artery, 480. 569. superficial, 648. region of the abdomen, 494. veins, 481. Epiglottidean gland, 172. Epiglottis, 171. Epiploon, 503. Erector clitoridis, 456. penis, 447. spina?, 409. Ethmoidal arteries, 49. Eustachian tube, cartilaginous part, 132. osseous part, 777. valve, 352. Expansion from the vasti, 770. Extensor carpi radialis brevis, 317. longus, 317. carpi ulnaris, 319. digiti minimi, 319. digitorum brevis, 734. communis, 318. Extensor digitorum longus pedis, 731. indicis, 321. ossis metacarpi, 320. proprius pollicis, 731. primi internodii pollicis, 320. secundi internodii pollicis, 321. External cutaneous nerves of arm, 276. cutaneous nerve of thigh, (o) 577. (d) 651. Eye, 755. brows, 34. globe, 755. lashes, 34. lids, 34. nerves of, 37. structure, 34. vessels, 36. Facial artery, (d) 29. (o) 83. nerve, (d) 39. (c) 150. (o) 195. vein, 29. Falciform ligament of the liver, 505. border of saphenous opening, 654. Fallopian tube, 597. 633. Falx cerebelli, 14. cerebri, 10. Fascia axillary, 246. brachial, 277. cervical, deep, 55. 62. costo-coracoid, 254. cremasteric, 471. cribriform, 649. dentata, 221. of the forearm, 293. iliac, 574. intercolumnar, 468. intermuscular of the humerus, 285. of the thigh, 770. lata, 653. of the leg, 707. 727. lumborum, 403. obturator, 582. palmar, 305. pelvic, 582. perina?al, deep, 449. superficial 444. plantar, deep, 716. propria, 659. of the quadratus, 574. recto-vesical, 585. spermatic, 468. temporal, 4. transversalis, 476. Fasciculus teres, 236. Femoral arch, 655. artery, 661. 666. canal, 657. hernia, 490. 658.803 INDEX. Femoral ring, 491. 658. sheath, 491. 657. interior of, 657. vein, 662. 667. Femoro-tibial articulation, 737. Fenestra ovalis, 776. rotunda, 776. Fibres of the cerebrum, 226. of the cerebellum, 234. Fibro-cartilage. See Interarticular. Fifth nerve, 19, 194. Fillet of the corpus callosum, 210. of the olivary body, 200. 205. 226. Fimbriae of the Fallopian tube, 633. First nerve, (o) 191 (d) 143. (c) 18. Fissure of the cerebrum, 211. longitudinal, 542. of Sylvius, 207. transverse, 542. for vena cava, 543. Fissures of Santorini, 39. of the cord, 431. Flexor accessorius muscle, 722. brevis minimi digiti, 312. pedis, 723. carpi radialis, 295. 315. ulnaris, 296. digitorum brevis pedis, 718. longus pedis, 711. 721. profundus, 302. 309. sublimis, 298. 309. pollicis longus, 303. 310. pedis, 710. 722. pollicis brevis, 311. pedis, 723. Flocculus cerebelli, 232. Follicles Meibomian, 36. ceruminous, 774. ^ solitary, 530. 536. Foramen centrale of the eye, 767. of Monro, 219. ovale, 351, of Winslow, 504. Foramina Thebesii, 352. Forearm, dissection of, 289. cutaneous nerves, 291. veins; 290. Fornix, 218. 225. Fossa-hemispherica, 784. semi-elliptica, 784. ischio-rectal, 440. navicular of the urethra, 619. of the pudendum, 625. ovalis, 351. Fossa? of abdominal wall, 489. Fourth nerve, (o) 193. (c) 19. (d) 44. ventricle, 235. Fovea semi-elliptica, 784. hemispherica, 784. 3 F Foveas of fourth ventricle, 236. Fraenulum labii, 138. Fraenum linguae, 138. praeputii, 464. Frontal artery, 6. 49. nerve, 44. vein, 7. Fungiform papilla?, 154. Funiculus cuneatus, 199. Galenr veins of, 221. Ganglia, cervical, inferior, 121. middle, 121. superior, 119. lumbar, 578. sacral, 608. semilunar, 521. of spinal nerves, 429. thoracic, 387. Ganglion of the vagus, 114. azygos, 608. Gasserian, 19. impar, 608. jugular, 1]2. lenticular, 48. Meckel's 145. ophthalmic, 48. otic, 152. petrosal, 113. spheno-palatine, 145. submaxillary, 102. thyroid, 121. Gall bladder, 547. structure, 547. Gastric, arteries, 516. plexus, 522. vein, 518. Gastro-colic omentum, 503. epiploic arteries, 517. veins, 518. hepatic omentum, 502. Gastrocnemius, muscle. 708. Gemellus inferior muscle, 691. superior muscle, 691. Genio-hyo-glossus, 100. 158. hyoid muscle, 100. Genito-crural nerve, (o) 577. (d) 478. 651. Gimbernat's ligament, 656. Gland, epiglottidean, 172. lachrymal. 44. parotid, 30. pineal, 225. pituitary, 210. prostate, 611. sublingual, 103. submaxillary, 97. Glands, arytaenoid, 136. axillary, 252. bronchial, 385.304 INDEX. Glands, Bartoline's, 628. Brunner's, 531. cardiac, 385. cervical, 60. ceruminoiis, 774. concatenate, 60. Cowper's 451. inguinal, 463. 648, intercostal, 385. intestinal, 530. labial, 138. laryngeal, 167, lingual, 160. lumbar, 575. mammary, 247. mediastinal, 385. Meibomian, 36. mesenteric, 508. molar, 82. odoriferous, 464* oesophageal, 385. of Pacchionus, 11, pelvic, 610. Peyer's, 531. popliteal, 700. solitary, 530. tracheal, 175. Glans of the clitoris, 626, of the penis, 594. Glasserian fissure, 776. Glenoid ligament, 288. Glisson's capsule, 546. Globus major epididymis, 559. minor epididymis, 559. Glosso-pharyngeal nerve, (o) 195. (d) 112. 160. Glottis, 165. Gluteal artery, (o) 601. (d) £87. nerve, superior, 608. 687. nerves, inferior, 690. Gluteus maximus muscle, 684. medius muscle, 686. minimus muscle, 688. Graafian vesicles, 632. Gracilis muscle, 674. Great omentum, 503. Grey nucleus of the cord, 433. substance of the cord, 433. of the corpus striatum, 220. of the medulla oblongata, 202. 238. of the third ventricle, 223. Grey tubercle of Rolando, 203. Gustatory nerve, 96. (d) 101. 160. Gyrus fornicatus, 212. Ham, 695. Hamulus laminae spiralis, 787. Hand, 304. Hand, dissection of, 304. Hemorrhoidal artery, inferior, 442. middle, 602 superior, (o) 510. (d) 604. nerve, inferior, 442. plexus, 609. Head, dissection of, i. Heart, 345. constituents, 347. dissection of, 345. position, 346. structure of, 358. Helicis major muscle, 38. minor muscle, 38. Helicotrema, 787. Helix, 37. Hepatic artery, 517. (d) 547. cells, 545. ducts, 543. 548. (o) 546. plexus, 522. veins, 547. Hernia, crural or femoral, 490. inguinal, external, 483. internal, 486. umbilical, 488. Hiatus cochleae, 787. Hip-joint, 702. Hippocampus, major, 220. minor, 220. Hollow before elbow, 294. Humero-cubital articulation, 324. Hyaloid membrane, 769. Hymen, 626, Hyo-glossus muscle, 99. 1 57. glossal membrane, 156» Hyoid bone, 169. Hypochondriac region of abdomen, 494. Hypogastric plexus of nerves, 512. region of the abdomen, 494. Hypoglossal nerve, (o) 196. (c) 117. (d) 80. 102. 160. Ileo-ccecal valve, 534. colic artery, 508. valve, 534. Ileum intestine, connections of, 497. structure of, 528. Iliac artery, common, 568. external, 568. internal, 599. fascia, 574. region of the abdomen, 494. vein, common, 570. external, 570. internal, 605. Iliacus muscle, 573. 681. Ilio-femoral articulation, 702. hypogastric nerve, 462. 475. 577.805 INDEX. Ilioinguinal nerve, (d) 462. 475. (o) 577. lumbar artery, 601. Ineisor branch of nerve, 96. teeth, 139. Incus, 779. Indicator muscle, 321. Inferior cornu of the lateral ventricle, 217. Inferior maxillary nerve, (o) 19. (d) 92. Infra-costal muscle, 389. orbital artery, 105. nerve, 41. 105. vein, 106. scapular artery, 266. trochlear nerve, 47. Infra-spinatus muscle, 269. Infundibulum of the brain, 209. of the cochlea, 786. Inguinal canal, 483. glands, 463. hernia, external, 483. internal, 486. region of the abdomen, 494. Innominate artery, 364. veins, 367. Interarticular cartilage of the jaw, 90. of the hip, 704. of the knee, 741. of the ribs, 392. of the scapula, 271. sterno-clavicular, 182. of the vertebra?, 395. of the wrist, 329. Interclavicular ligament, 182. Intercolumnar fascia, 468. fibres, 468. Intercostal aponeurosis, 261. 389. arteries, anterior branches, 264. 381. posterior branches, 382. artery, superior, (o) 74. (d) 382. muscle, external, 261. internal, 262. nerves, 389. (d) 264. 474. nerves, cutaneous anterior, 247. nerves, cutaneous lateral, 247 veins, superior, 382. Intercosto-humeral nerve, (o) 247. (d) 277. Intestine, large, 532. small, 527. Intermuscular septa of the arm, 285. of the thigh, 770. Internal cutaneous nerve of arm, 276. 282. 291. Internal cutaneous nerve of thigh, (d) 652. (o) 672. Interosseous arteries of the foot, 734. of the hand, 323. artery, anterior, 303. posterior, 322. ligament of the arm, 327. of the leg, 743. muscles of the foot, 725. of the hand, 314. nerve, anterior, 304. posterior, 322. Interspinal muscles, 418. Intertransverse muscles, 177. 418. Intervertebral substance, 395. Intestinal arteries, 507. 532. canal divisions, 495. structure, 528. 535. Intra-spinal arteries 435. veins, 435. Iris, 762. structure of, 763. Ischio-rectal fossa, 440. Island of Reil, 208. Isthmus faucium, 132. of the thyroid body, 124. of the uterus, 630. Iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum, 223. ad infundibulum, 222. Jacob's membrane, 766. structure, 768. Jacobson's nerve, (o) 113. (d) 782. Jejunum, connections of, 497. structure, 528. Joint, ankle, 743. elbow, 324. hip, 702. knee, 737. lower jaw, 89. shoulder, 287. wrist, 327. Jugular ganglion, 112. vein, anterior, 65. external, 55. internal, 79. 109. Kidney, 549. connections of, 500. structure, 551. vessels of, 552. Knee of the corpus callosum, 210. Knee-joint, 737. Labia pudendi externa, 625. interna, 626. Labial glands, 138. artery, inferior, 96. nerve, 96. J Labyrinth, membranous, 788. f 3INDEX. 806 Labyrinth, osseous, 783. Lachrymal artery, 48. canals, 52. duct, 53. gland, 44. nerve, 44. point, 34. 52. sac, 53. Lacteal ducts, 249. Lacunas of the urethra, 619. Lamina cinerea, 210. spiralis cochleae, 787. Laminae of cerebellum, 233. of the lens, 771. Large intestine connections, 497. structure and form of 532. Laryngeal arteries, 168. nerve,, external, 115. inferior, (o) 116. (d) 168. superior, (o) 115. (d) 168. pouch, 166. Larynx, 161. aperture of, 164. cartilages of, 170. interior of, 164. muscles, 162. nerves, 168o ventricle, 165. vessels, 168. Lateral column of the medulla, 198. 201. of the cord, 432. sinus, 15. ventricles, 216. Latissimus dorsi, 260. 401. Laxator tympani, 781. Leg, dissection of the back, 704. front, 727. Lens of the eye, 770. structure of, 771. Lenticular ganglion, 48. Levator anguli oris, 28. scapulae, 404. ani, 441. 584. glandulae thyreoideae, 124. labii superioris, 27. alaeque nasi, 25. menti, 27. palati, 134. palpebrae superioris, 45. Levatores costarum, 421. Lieberkuehn's crypts, 530. Ligament of the lung, 339. Ligaments of the bladder, 586. 588. of the larynx, 172. of the ovary, 632. of the pinna, 39. of the uterus, 596. Ligament, acromio-clavicular, 271. alar of the knee, 739. annular, anterior of the ankle, 729. external of the ankle 730. internal of the ankle, 714. anterior of the wrist, 315. posterior of the wrist, 316. 323. anterior, special, of ankle, 744. of elbow-joint, 325. of knee-joint, 739. of wrist-joint, 328. astragalo-scaphoid, 746. atlo-axoid, anterior, 179. posterior, 179. transverse, 181.. calcaneo-astragaloid, 745. calcaneo-cuboid, 747. calcaneo-scaphoid, 746. capsular of the hip, 703. of the knee, 737. of the shoulder, 288. of the thumb, 331. carpal, dorsal, 329. palmar, 329. carpo-metacarpal, 331. chondro-sternal, 393. common, anterior, of vertebrae, 394. common, posterior, 394. conoid, 271. coraco-acromial, 272. clavicular, 271. humeral, 288. costo-clavicular, 182. coracoid, 254. transverse, anterior, 392. middle, 393. posterior, 392. costo-vertebral, 392. cotyloid, 703. crico-thyroid, 173. crucial, 740. deltoid, 744. dorsal of the carpus, 294. glenoid, 288. ilio-femoral, 704. lumbar, 639. interarticular of the clavicle, 182. of the hip, 704. of the jaw, 90.807 INDEX. Ligament, interarticular of the knee, 741. of the pubes,640. of the ribs, 392. of the wrist, 329. - interclavicular, 182. interosseous of astragalus and os calcis, 746. interosseous of carpus, 329. 332. interosseous of cuneiform bones, 748. 750. interosseous of metacarpal bones, 332. interosseous of metatarsal bones, 749. interosseous of radius and ulna, 327. interosseous of the scaphoid and cuboid, 748. interosseous of the tibia and fibula, 743. interosseous, inferior, of the tibia and fibula, 743. interspinal, 297. intertransverse, 397. intervertebral, 395. lateral, external of the ankle, 744. lateral, internal, 744. lateral, external of the carpus, 328. lateral, internal, 328. lateral, external of the elbow, 325. lateral, internal, 325. lateral, phalangeal of the foot, 751. lateral, phalangeal of the hand, 332. lateral, external of the jaw, 89. lateral, internal, 89. lateral, external of the knee, 738. lateral, internal, 738. laternal, external of the wrist, 328. lateral, internal, 328. long plantar, 747. metacarpal, dorsal, 330. palmar, 330. metatarsal, dorsal, 748. palmar, 748. mucous, 739. obturator, 639. occipito-atloid, anterior, 179. posterior, 179. occipito-axoid, 180. odontoid, 180. orbicular of the radius, 326. of the patella, 739. 3 F Ligament, peroneo-tibial, 742. of Poupart, 469. posterior of ankle, 744. of elbow, 325. of knee, 739. of wrist, 328. proper of the scapula, 271. pubic anterior, 639. superior, 640. round of the hip, 704. round of the radius and ulna,327. sacro-coccygeal, anterior, 637. posterior, 637. sacro-iliac, anterior, 638. posterior, 638. sacro-sciatic, large, 638. 693. small, 638. 693. sacro-vertebral, 637. of the scapula, anterior, 272. posterior, 271. sterno- clavicular, 182. stylo-hyoid, 107. maxillary, 90. sub-pubic, 640. supra-spinous, 397. suspensory of penis, 464. tarso-metatarsal, dorsal, 749. lateral, 750. plantar, 749. thyro-hyoid, 172. arytenoid, 166. tibio-tarsal, 744. transverse of the atlas, 181. of the fingers, 306. of the hip, 703. of the knee, 742. of metacarpus, 314. of metatarsus, 725. of the toes, 717. trapezoid, 271. triangular of the abdomen, 469. of the urethra, 449. of Winslow, or posterior, 739. Ligamentum arcuatum, 564. denticulatum„ 426. latum pulmonis, 339> longum plantse, 747. mucosum, 739. nucha?, 401. patellae, 739. subflavum, 396. teres, 704. Limbus luteus, 766. Linea alba, 467. semilunaris, 474. Linea? transversa?, 474. Lingual artery, 100. glands, 160. nerve, 96. (d) 101.808 INDEX. Lingual vein, 10L Lingual is muscles, 159. Lips, 138. Liquor Cotunnii, 788. Lithotomy, parts cut, 454. Liver, 540. ligaments, 505. connections of, 499. structure, 544. vessels, 543. (d) 545. Lobes of the cerebellum, 231. of the cerebrum, 207. Lobular biliary plexus, 546. venous plexus, 545. Lobules of the testis, 558. of the liver, 544. Lobulus auris, 37. caudatus, 542. quadratus, 542. Spigelii, 542. Locus cseruleus, 237. niger, 209. perforatus anticus, 211. posticus, 209. Longissimus dorsi, 409. Longitudinal fibres of the brain, 228. fissure of the liver, 542. sinus, inferior, 14. superior, 11. Longus colli muscle, 175. Lumbar aponeurosis, 403. arteries, 579. anterior branches, 580. posterior branches, 416. ganglia, 579. glands, 575. nerves, anterior branches, 576. posterior branches, 414. plexus, 576. region of the abdomen, 494. veins, 416. 580. Lumbo-sacral nerve, 576. Lumbricales of the foot, 721. of the hand, 310. Lungs, 341. form, 341. connections, 341. physical characters, 376. structure, 377. vessels and nerves, 379. Lymphatic duct, 385. right, 75. 386. Lymphatics of the arm, 275. of the axilla, 252. of the groin, 463. 648. of the lungs, 379. of the mesentery, 508. of the neck, 60. of the pelvis, 610. Lymphatics of the popliteal space, 700. of the thorax, 385. Lyra, 219. Malleus, 778. Malleolar arteries, 733. Malpighian corpuscles of spleen, 539. of kidney, 552. Mamillse of the kidney, 550. Mamma, 247. structure of, 248. Mammary artery, internal, (o) 73. (c) 263. 480. gland, 247. Masseter muscle, 86. Masseteric artery, 92. nerve, 94. Mastoid cells, 776. Maxillary artery, internal, 91. nerve, inferior, (o) 19. (d) 93. superior, 19. 105. vein, internal, 93. Meatus auditorius externus, 774. auditorius, nerves of, 774. vessels of, 774. urinarius, 619. Meatuses of the nose, 141. Meckel's ganglion, 145. Median basilic vein, 275. cephalic vein, 275. nerve, (o) 259. (c) 282. (d) 301. 308. vein, 274. 29L Mediastinal arteries, 263. 381. Mediastinum of thorax, 340. testis, 557. Medulla oblongata, 197. grey matter of, 202. structure of, 200. . spinalis, 430. Medullary layer of the retina, 767. substance of the kidney, 550. velum? anterior, 234. posterior, 232. Meibomian follicles,. 36. Membrana fusca, 760. granulosa, 632. pigmenti, 761. pupillaris, 764. sacciformis, 329. tympani, 777. Membranes of the brain, 10. 183. Membrane hyaloid, 769. Jacob's, 766. of the labyrinth, 788. Membranous labyrinth, 788. part of the cochlea, 787. part of the urethra, 592.618. Meningeal artery, anterior, 17.809 INDEX. Meningeal artery, middle, 17. 91. posterior, 17. 84. small, 17. 92. nerves, 1 7. Mesenteric artery, inferior, 509. superior, 507. glands, 508. plexus, inferior, 511. superior, 510. vein, inferior, 510. superior, 508. Mesentery, 505. Meso-ca?cum, 504. colon, left, 504. right, 504. transverse, 505. rectum, 504. Metacarpal arteries, 300. Metatarsal artery, 733. Mitral valve, 357. Modiolus, 786., Molar teeth, 139. glands, 82. Mons veneris, 625. Motor oculi nerve, (o) 193. (c) 19. (d) 46. 50. Mouth, cavity of, 137. Multifidus spinas muscle, 419. Muscles of the ureters, 616. Musculi papillares, 353. 357. pectinati, 351. 356. Musculo-phrenic artery, 263. 480.' cutaneous nerve, (o)735. (d)728. of the arm, (o) 259. (c) 283 (d) 292. Musculo-spiral nerve, 259. 286. Muse, abductor digiti minimi, 312. digiti minimi pedis, 718. indicis, 315. oculi, 45. pollicis, 310. poilicis pedis, 717. accelerator Urina?, 447. accessorius pedis, 722. accessorius ad sacro-lumbalem,409. adductor brevis, 676. digiti minimi, 312. longus, 675. magnus, 679. oculi, 50. pollicis manus, 311. pedis, 723. anconeus, 319. anti-tragus, 38. aryta?noideus, 162. arytaeno-thyro-epiglottideus, 163, attollens aurem, 2. oculum, 45. attrahens aurem, 2. Muse, azygos uvula?, 136. biceps femoris, 700. 738. flexor cubiti, 278. 288. 316. biventer cervicis, 411. brachialis anticus, 283. 316. buccinator, 28. cervicalis ascendens, 409. ciliaris, 762. circumflexus palati, 134. coccygeus, 584. complexus, 410. compressor naris, 25. urethra?, 450. constrictor inferior, 130. isthmi faucium, 123. medius, 130. superior, 130. urethra?, 450. vagina?, 456. coraco-brachialis, 278. corrugator supercilii, 24. cremastericus, 471. crico-arytaenoideus lateralis, 163. posticus, 162. thyroideus, 162. crureus, 669. deltoides, 267. depressor anguli oris, 27. epiglottidis, 163. labii inferioris, 27. nasi, 26. alee, 26. diaphragma, 390. 562. digastricus, 80. dilatator naris, 25. erector clitoridis, 456. penis, 447. spina?, 409 extensor carpi radialis brevior, 317. longior, 317. ulnaris, 319. digiti minimi, 319. digitorum brevis pedis, 734. digitorum communis, 318. digitorum longus pedis, 731. indicis, 321. ossis metacarpi pollicis, 320. pollicis proprius, 731. primi internodii pollicis, 320. secundi internodii pollicis, 321. flexor accessorius, 722. brevis digiti minimi, 312. brevis digiti minimi pedis, 723.INDEX. no Ausc. flexor carpi radialis, 295. 315. ulnaris, 296. digitorum brevis pedis, 718. profundus, 302. 309. sublimis,298.309. longus pedis, 711. 721. pollicis longus, 303. 310. pedis, 710. 722. pollicis brevis, 311. pedis, 723. gastrocnemius, 708. gemellus inferior, 691. superior, 691. genio-hyo-glossus, 100. hyoideus, 100. glosso-pharyngeus, 158. gluteus maximus, 684. medius, 686. minimus, 688. gracilis, 674. helicis major, 38. minor, 38. hyo-glossus, 99. iliacus, 573. 681. indicator, 321. infra-costalis, 389. spinatus, 269. intercostaies externi, 261. interni, 262. interossei manus dorsales, 314. palmares, 314. pedis dorsales, 726. plantares, 726. interspinales, 418. inter-transversales, 177. 418. latissimus dorsi, 260. 401. laxator tympani, 781. levator anguli oris, 27. scapulas, 404. ani, 441. 584. levator glandulse thyreoideae, 124. labii superioris, 27. alseque nasi, 25. menti, 27. palati, 134. palpebral, 45. uvulae, 136. levatores costarum, 421. linguales, 159. longissimus dorsi, 409. longus colli, 175. lumbricales manus, 310. pedis, 721. mallei externus, 781. 1 internus, 780. massetericus, 86. multifidus spinae, 419. Muse, obliquus abdominis externus, 466. internus, 470. obliquus capitis inferior, 417. superior, 417. obliquus oculi inferior, 51. superior, 46. obturator externus, 681. 693. internus, 635. 692. occipito-frontalis, 3. omo-hyoideus, 66. 405. opponens digiti minimi, 312. pollicis, 311. orbicularis oris, 26. palpebrarum, 24. palato-glossus, 135. pharyngeus, 135. palmaris brevis, 305. longus, 295. papil lares, 353. 357. pectineus, 675. pectoralis major, 252. minor, 254. peroneus brevis, 736. longus, 727. 736. tertius, 731. plantaris, 709. platysma myoides, 55. 61. popliteus, 710. 738. pronator quadratus, 303. radii teres, 295. psoas magnus, 572. 681. parvus, 573. pterygoideus externus, 88. internus, 89. pyramidalis abdominis, 474. nasi, 25. pyriformis, 688. quadratus femoris, 692. lumborum, 573. quadriceps extensor cruris, 668. rectus abdominis, 473. capitis anticus major, 176. minor, 176. lateralis, 118. capitis posticus major, 417. minor, 417. femoris, 668. 688. oculi externus, 50. inferior, 50. internus, 50. superior, 45. retrahens aurem, 2. rhomboideus major, 404. minor, 404. risorius Santorini, 28. rotatores spinae, 419. sacro-lumbalis, 409. sartorius, 664. scalenus anticus, 69.INDEX. 811 Muse, scalenus posticus, 70. semi-spinalis colli, 418. dorsi, 418. semi-membranosus, 701. 738. semi-tendinosus, 701. serratus magnus, 260. posticus inferior, 406. superior, 406. soleus, 708. sphincter ani externus, 441. internus, 441. vaginae, 456. spinalis dorsi, 408. splenius capitis, 407. colli, 407. stapedius, 781. sterno-cleido-mastoideus, 66. hyoideus, 67. thyroideus, 97. stylo-glossus, 100. hyoideus, 80. pharyngeus, 107. subanconeus, 285. subclavius, 255. subcrureus, 770. subscapularis, 266. supinator radii brevis, 321. longus, 317. supra-spinatus, 272. temporalis, 4, 87. tensor palati, 134. tarsi, 51. tympani, 780. vaginas femoris, 667. teres major, 270. minor, 269. thyro-aryta?noideus, 163. epiglottideus, 163. hyoideus, 67. tibialis anticus, 730. posticus, 711. 726. trachelo-mastoideus, 410. tragus, 38. transversalis abdominis, 472. colli, 410. transversus auris, 38. pedis, 723. perinaei, 448. alter, 448. profundus, 450. lingua?, 159. trapezius, 400. triangularis sterni, 263. triceps extensor cruris, 668. cubiti, 284. vastus, externus, 669. internus, 669. zygomaticus major, 28. minor, 28. Mylo-hyoid artery, 91. muscle, 97. nerve, 95. Nares posterior, 131. Nasal artery, 49. lateral, 29. cartilages, 32. 141. duet, 53. fossa?, 140. nerve, (d) 47. (c) 148. Naso palatine nerve, 147. artery, 148. Neck, anterior triangle of, 63. posterior, 56. dissection of, 53. 60. Nerve of Wrisberg, (o) 259 (d) 276. 282. Nerve to the inferior gemellus and quad- ratus, 691. crureus, 673. latissimus, 260. levator anguli scapula?, 78. longus colli, 76. obturator internus, 608. pectineus, 673. recti and obliqui, 413. pyriformis, 608. rhomboid muscle, 76. 406. seal en i, 76. serratus muscle, (o) 76. (d) 260. subclavius, 76. superior gemellus, 691. tensor tympani, 783. vagina? femoris, 673. teres major, 260. minor, 269. vastus externus, 673. internus, 673. Nerv. abducens, (o) 194. (c) 20. (d) 50. accessorius obturatorii, 578. 676. accessorius spinalis, 116. 196. 400. acromiales cutanei, 267. articulares poplitei, 699. articulares poplitei obturatoris, 677. 700. auditorius, 195. 791. articulares anteriores, 8. 95. articularis magnus, 8. 59. auricularis pneumogastricus, (o) 115. (d) 783. auricularis inferior, 95. posterior, 8. 40. auriculo-temporalis, 8. 94. buccinatorius, 94. buccales, 41. 94. cardiacus inferior, (o) 121. 127. (d) 374.INDEX. 12 Terv. cardiacus medius (o) 121. 127. (d) 374. cardiaci pneumogastrici, 116.371. (d)371. cardiacus superior, (o) 120. 127. (d) 350. 374. cervicales nervi facialis, 61. cervicales, rami anteriores, 75. 177. rami posteriores, 412. cervicalis, superficialis, 59, 61. cervico-facialis, 4i. chorda tympani, 96. 151. ciliares ganglii ophthalmici, 48. ciliares nasalis, 47. (d) 765. circumflexus, 259. 268. claviculares cutanei, 59. coccygealis 420. cochlearis, 791. communicans filularis, 699. 707. corporis bulbosi, 453. cruralis, (o) 578. (d) 671. cutanei abdominis, anteriores, 462. laterales, 462. cutaneus externus brachialis (o) 259. (c) 283. (d) 276. 292. cutaneus externus lumbalis, (o) 577. (d) 651. cutaneus externus museulo-spiralis, 276. 287. 292. cutaneus interims brachialis, major, 276. 282. 291. cutaneus intern us brachialis, minor, 259. 276. 282. cutaneus interims femoris, (d) 652. (o) 672. cutaneus internus ischiadicus, 690. cutaneus internus museulo-spiralis, 276. 287. cutaneus obturatorii, 677. cutaneus maxillaris inferioris, 96. superioris, J 05. cutaneus medius femoris, (o) 671. (d) 652. cutaneus musculo-cutaneus, 276. palmaris, 301. 304. plantaris, 714. radialis, 292. dorsalis manus, 292. 301. dentales posteriores, 106. dentalis anterior, 106. inferior, 95. descendens noni, 81. diaphragmaticus, (o) 77. (d) 370. digastricus, 40. digitales mediani, 308. plantares, 720. radiales, 292. ulnares, 307. dorsales, rami anteriores, 264. 389. Nerv. dorsales, rami posteriores, 414. dorsalis penis, 465. ulnaris, 292. facialis, 39. 151. 195. frontalis, 44. genito-cruralis, 577. genito-cruralis, ramus femoralis, 577. 651. genito-cruralis, ramus genitalis, 478. 577. glosso-pharyngeus, 112. 195. glutei inferiores, 690. gluteus superior, 608. 687. gustatorius, 96. haemorrhoidales superiores, 609. hsemorrhoidalis inferior, 442. hepatici, 522. hypoglossus, 80. 102. 117. 196. ilio-hypogastricus, 462. 577. inguinalis, 462. 577. incisorius, 96. infra-maxillares nervi facialis, 42. 61. orbitales nervi facialis, 41. orbitalis, 105. trochlearis, 47. intercostales, 264. 389. intercosto-cutanei anteriores, 247. intercosto-cutanei laterales, 247. intercosto-humerales, 247. 276. interosseus anticus, 304. posticus, 322. ischiadicus major, 690. minor, 690. 707. labialis, 96. lachrymalis, 45. laryngeus externus, 115. laryngeus inferior, (o) 116. 371. (d) 168. laryngeus superior, (o) 115. (d) 168. lingualis, 80. 102. 117. 196. lumbales, rami anteriores, 576. rami posteriores, 4 14. lumbo-sacralis, 576. malares nervi facialis, 41. malaris, 52. massetericus, 94. maxillaris inferior, (o) 19. (d) 93. superior, 19. 105. medianus, 282. 300. 308. meningeal 17. molles, 120. motor occuli, (o) 193. (c) 19. (d) 46. 50. musculo-cutaneus brachii, 259. 283. 292. musculo-cutaneus cruris, 735. (d) 728.INDEX. 813 Nerv. rausculo-spiralis, (o) 259. (d) 286. mylo-hyoideus, 95. nasalis, (c) 47. (o) 44. (d) 148. maxillaris, 147. naso-palatinus, 147. obturatorius, (o) 578. (d) 677. articularis, 677. occipitalis major, 9. 399. 412. minor, (d) 9. (o) 59. oesophageales, 372. olfactorius, (c) 18. (o) 191. (d) 143. ophthalmicus, 20. 44. opticus, 50. 224, 767. orbitalis, (d) 52. (o) 106. palatums magnus, 146. medius, 146. minor, 146. palpebrales, 37. palmaris cutaneus, 301. ulnaris profundus, 314. superficialis, 307. perforans Casserii, (o) 259. (c) 283. (d) 292. perinscales superficiales, 445. petrosus superficialis magnus, 22. 147. petrosus superficialis parvus, (o) 783. (c) 22. (d) 152. pharyngei, 114. pharyngeus, 115. phrenicus, 77. 370. plantaris externus, 720. externus profundus, 725. internus, 720. pneumo-gastricus, 114. 195. 370. popliteus externus, 699. internus, 699. portio dura, 39. 150. 195. mollis, (o) 195. (d) 791. pterygoidei, 94. pterygoideus internus, 152. pudendus inferior, (o) 690. (d)446. pudendus internus, (o) 608. (d) 453. pulmonares anteriores, 371. posteriores, 371. radialis, 292. 302. recurrens, 116. 371. (d) 168. articularis, 735. renales, 522. respiratorius externus, (o) 76. (d) 260. sacrales, rami anteriores, 606. rami posteriores, 420.683. saphenus externus, 699. 707. (d) 729. internus, (o) 672. (d) 652. 707. Nerv. sciaticus magnus, 690. parvus, 690. spermatid, 478. spheno-palatini, 105. spinales, 75. 412. 427. splanchnicus major, (o) 387. (d) 523. minor, (o) 388. (d) 523. minimus, (o) 388. (d) 523. splenici, 522. stylo-hyoideus, 40. sub-occipitalis, ramus anterior, 11 8. sub-occipitalis, ramus posterior, 413. subscapulars, 259. superficialis cordis dexter, (o) 120. (d) 373. superficialis cordis sinister, (o) 127. (d) 350. supra-maxillares nervi facialis, 42. orbitalis, 7. 44, scapularis, 76. 273. trochlears, 7. 44. sympathetica abdominis, 520. 578. 608. sympatheticus cervicis, 118. pelvis, 608. thoracis, 387. temporales nervi facialis, 41. profundi, 93. temporales superficiales, (d) 8. (o) 95. 105. temporo-facialis, 40. thoraeici anteriores, 247. laterales, 247. thoracicus posterior, 76. 260. thyro-hyoideus, 81. tibialis anticus, 735. (d) 729. posticus, 714. trigeminus, 19. 194. trochlearis, 19. 44. 193. tympanicus, (o) 113. (d) 782. ulnaris, 282. 301. 307. 314. uterini, 610, vaginales, 610. vestibularis, 791. vidianus, 147. Ninth nerve, (o) 196. (c) 21. 81. 117. (d) 80. Nodule, 231. Nose, cartilages, 32. cavity of, 140. meatus of, 141. vessels and nerves of, 147, 148. Nuclei of medulla oblongata, 237. Nutritious artery of fibula, 713. of femur, 679. of humerus, 280.INDEX. 514 Nutritious artery of tibia, 712. Nymphae, 626. 3bliquus abdominis ex tenuis, 466. internus, 470. capitis inferior muscle, 417. superior muscle, 417. oculi inferior, 51. superior, 46. Obturator artery, (o) 602. (d) 681. fascia, 582. ligament, 639. muscle, external, 681. 693. internal, 635. 692. nerve, (o) 578. (d) 677. )ccipital artery, (o) 84. (c) 415. (d) 6. vein, 7. 416. sinus, 15. nerves, 9. 59. 413. )ccipito-atloid articulation, 179. ligaments, 179. axoid ligaments, 180. frontalis muscle, 3. )dontoid ligaments, 180. Esophagus, connections of, 126. 384. structure, 137. 384. Esophageal arteries, 381. 516. nerves, 372. opening of diaphragm, 564. Mfactory bulb, 192. nerve, (o) 191. (d) 143. (c) 18. region, 143. )livary body, 199, 200. fasciculus, 200. 205. 226. )mentum, great, 503. small, 502. splenic, 504. )mo-hyoid muscle, 66. 405. )phthalmic artery, 48. ganglion, 48. nerve, (o) 19. (c) 20. (d) 44. vein, 49. )pponens pollicis muscle, 311. )ptic commissure, 1 93. nerve, (o) 224. (c) 50. (d) 767. thalamus, 224. 229. tract, 192. )ra serrata, 766. )rbicular ligament of the radius, 326. )rbicularis oris, 26. palpebrarum, 24. )rbit, 42. muscles of, 43. nerves, 43. periosteum of, 43. vessels, 48. )rbital branch of nerve, (d) 52. (o) 105. )rifice of the urethra, 619. 626. of the uterus, 629. Orifice of the vagina, 626. Os hyoides, 169. Ossicles of the tympanum, 778. Ossicula auditus, 778. Os tincae, 630. uteri, externum, 630. inteinum, 630. Otic ganglion, 152. Otoliths, 789, 790. Outlet of the pelvis, 583. Ovaries, 597. 631. arteries of, 567. 604. Ovula, 632. Palatine arteries, superior, 148. artery, inferior, 83. nerve, external, 146. large, 146. small, 146. Palato-glossus, 135, 157. Palato-pharyngeus, 135. Palm of the hand, 304. cutaneous nerves of, 304. Palmar arch, deep, 313. superficial, 306. nerve of the ulnar, deep, 314. nerve of the ulnar, superficial, 307. cutaneous nerves, 301. 304. fascia, 305. Palmaris brevis muscle, 305. longus muscle, 295. Palpebra?, 34. Palpebral arteries, 49. ligament, 35. nerves, 37. veins, 30. Pampiniform plexus, 633. Pancreas, 536. connections, 514. structure of, 537. Pancreatic arteries, 516. duct, 537. veins, 518. Pancreatico-duodenal arteries, 507.518. Papillae of the tongue, 153. Parotid gland, 30. arteries, 85. Pecten of Reil, 227. Pectineus muscle, 675. Pectoralis major muscle, 252. minor muscle, 254. Peduncle of the cerebellum, inferior, 234. middle, 234. superior, 233. of the cerebrum, 208. Peduncle of the pineal body, 225. Peduncular fibres, 226. Pelvis, female, dissection of, 594. male, 581.815 INDEX. Pelvis, male, dissection of, 581. Pelvic cavity, 581. fascia, 582. Penis, 593. integument of, 464. structure of, 620. vessels of, 465.621. Perforating arteries of the femoral, 679. 702. of internal mamma- ry, 263. of the palm, 313. of the sole, 724. Perforans Casserii nerve, (o) 259. (c) 283. (d) 292. Pericardium, 343. vessels of, 345. 381. Perilymph, 789. Perinaeum, female, 455. male, 437. Perinaeal artery, superficial, 445. fascia, deep, 449. superficial, 444. nerves, superficial, 445. Periosteum of the orbit, 43. Peritoneal prolongation on the cord, 477. Peritoneum, 501. of female pelvis, 595. of male pelvis, 587. Peroneal artery, 713. anterior, 713. Peroneus brevis muscle, 736. longus muscle, 727. 736. tertius muscle, 731. Peroneo-tibial articulations, 742. Pes accessorius, 217. hippocampi, 221. Petrosal ganglion, 11 3. Petrosal sinus, inferior, 16. superior, 16. nerve, large, 22. 147. small, 783. (d) 22. 152. third, 22. Peyer's glands, 531. Pharynx, 127. interior, 131. muscles of, 130. openings of, 131. Pharyngeal ascending artery, 110. nerve, 115. vein, 111. Pharyngeo-glossal muscle, 158. Phrenic artery, 3*70. nerve, 77. 369. Pia mater of the brain, 184. of the cord, 425. Pigmentary membrane, 761. Pillars of the abdominal ring, 467. of the fornix, 225. Pineal body, 225. Pinna, or auricle of the ear, 37. Pituitary body, 210. Plantar aponeurosis, 716. arch of the artery, 724. artery, 719. ligament, long, 747. nerve, external, 720. 725. internal, 720. Plantaris muscle, 709. Platysma myoides muscle, 55. 61. Pleurae, 339. Plexus aortic, 511. brachial, 75. cardiac, superficial, 350. deep, 372. carotid, 22. cavernous, 22. cervical, 7 6. posterior, 413. choroides cerebri, 222. cerebelli, 238. cceliac, 522. coronary, anterior, 350. posterior, 350. coronary of the stomach, 522. diaphragmatic, 521. hepatic, 522. hasmorrhoidal, 609. hypogastric, 512. lumbar, 576. mesenteric, inferior, 511. superior, 510. cesophagean, 372. ovarian, 610. pampiniform, 633. pelvic, 609. pharyngeal, 114. prostatic, 609. pterygoid of veins, 93. pulmonary, anterior, 371. posterior, 371. renal, 522. supra, 522. sacral, 607. solar, 521. spermatic of nerves, 511. of veins, 478. splenic, 522. tympanic, 782. uterine, 610. vaginal, 610. vesical, 609. vesico-prostatic, 609. vertebral, 178. Plica semilunaris, 36. Pneumo-gastric nerve, (o) 195. (c) 114. (d) 370. Pomum Adami, 170.INDEX. 16 .^ons Varolii, 203. structure of, 204. Popliteal artery, 696. glands, 700. nerve, external, 699. internal, 698. space, 695. vein, 698. 3opliteus muscle, 710. 738. Dortiodura, (o) 195. (c) 151. (d) 35. mollis, (o) 195. (d) 791. 5orus opticus, 766. 3osterior commissure, 224. ligament of knee, 739. medullary velum, 234. pyramid, 199. triangle of the neck, 56. 3oupart's ligament, />69. 655. Pouch, laryngeal, 166. of the auricula, 351. 356. 3repuce, 464. Princeps cervicis artery, 415. pollicis artery, 313. of the foot, 725. Processus cochleariformis, 777. e cerebello ad testes, 233. vermiformes, 230. 235. Profunda artery, inferior, 280. of the neck, (o) 74. (d) 415. of the thigh, 662. 678. superior, (o) 280. (d) 286. Promontory, 775. Pronator quadratus muscle, 303. radii teres muscle, 295. Prostate gland, 611. connections, 591. structure, 612, Prostatic part of the urethra, 617. sinuses, 618. Psoas magnus muscle, 572. 681. parvus muscle, 573. Pterygoid arteries, 92. nerve, external, 94. internal, 152. plexus of veins, 93. Pterygoideus externus muscle, 88. internus muscle, 89. Pterygo-maxillary region, 85. palatine artery, 149. Pubic region of the abdomen, 494. symphysis, 639. Pudendum, 625. Pudendal inferior nerve, (o) 690, (d) 446. Pudic arteries, external, 648. 662. artery, internal (d) 452. (o) 603. nerve, internal, (o) 608. (d) 453. Pulmonary artery, 361. (d) 379. Pulmonary nerves, 371. veins, 368. Puncta lachrymalia, 34. 52. Pupil, 763. Pylorus, 524. Pyloric arteries, 517. 518. Pyramid, anterior, 198. 200. decussation of, 201. of the cerebellum, 231. of the thyroid body, 124. of the tympanum, 776. posterior, 199. Pyramidal fibres of the medulla, 200. masses of kidney, 550. Pyramidalis abdominis muscle, 474. nasi muscle, 25. Pyriformis muscle, 635. 688. Quadratus femoris muscle, 692. lumborum muscle, 573. Radial artery, 296. (d) 313. 323. nerve, (d) 292. (c) 302. veins, 291. cutaneous, 293. Radialis indicis artery, 313. Radio-carpal articulation, 327. Radio-ulnar articulations, 326. 328. Ranine artery, 101. veins, 101. Raphe of the corpus callosum, 215. of the perinseum, 438, Receptaculum chyli, 57 5. Reeto-vesical fascia, 585. pouch, 588, Rectus abdominis muscle, 473. capitis anticus major, 176. minor, 176. posticus major, 417. minor, 417. lateralis, 118. femoris, 668. 688. oculi externus, 50. inferior, 50. internus, 50. superior, 45. Rectum, connections of, in the female, 596. in the male, 589. structure, 623. Recurrent interosseous artery, 322. radial, 297. tibial, 732. ulnar, anterior, 300. posterior, 300. nerve of pneumo-gastric, (o) 116. 371. (d) 168. nerve of the tibial, 735. Removal of the brain, 12. Renal artery, 566. (d) 552.INDEX. 817 Renal plexus, 522. vein, (o) 552. (c) 571. Respiratory nerve, external, (o) 76. (d) 260. Restiform body, 199. 201. Rete testis, 559. Retina, 765. structure, 767. Retrahens aurem, 2. Rhomboideus major muscles, 404. minor, 404. Rima of the glottis, 165. Ring, abdominal, external, 467. internal, 476. 484. femoral, 491, 658. Risorius Santorini muscle, 28. Root of the lung, 842. Roots of the nerves, 427. Rotatores spinas, 43 9. Round ligament of the hip-joint, 704. of the liver, 506. of the uterus, 597. 631. Ruga? of the bladder, 615. of the stomach, 526. of the vagina, 627. Sacculus laryngis, 166. vestibuli, 789. Sacral artery, lateral, 601. middle, 605.- ganglia, 608. nerves, anterior branches, 606. posterior branches, 420. 683. plexus, 607. veins, 606. Sacro-coccygeal articulation, 637. iliac, 637. vertebral, 636. lumbalis muscle, 409. sciatic ligament, large, 638. 693. small, 638. 693. Salvatella vein, 291. Saphenous vein, external, 706. (o) 728. internal, 650. 706. (o) 728. opening*, 654. nerve, external, 699. (d) 707. 729. internal, (o) 672. (d) 652. 706. Sartorius muscle, 664. Scala tympani, 788. vestibuli, 788. Scalenus anticus muscle, 69. medius, 69. posticus, 70. Scapular artery, posterior, 405. ligaments, 271. 3 Scapular muscles, 265. Scapuloclavicular articulation, 271. Scapulo-humeral, 287. Scarpa's triangle, 660. Schneiderian membrane, 142. Sciatic artery, (o) 603. (d) 689. nerve, large, 690. small, 690. Sclerotic coat of the eye, 756. Scrotum, 464. Second nerve, (o) 224. (c) 50. (d) 767. Secondary membrane of the tympanum, 778. Segments of the cord, 432. Semicircular canals, 784. Semilunar cartilages, 741. ganglia, 521. valves of aorta, 358. of pulmonary artery, 355. Semi-bulbs of vagina, 628. Semi-membranosus muscle, 701. 738. Seminiferal tubes, 558. Semi-spinalis colli muscle, 418. dorsi muscle, 418. Semi-tendinosus muscle, 701. Septum auricularum, 351. cochleae, 787. crurale, 491. 658. intermuscular, of the arm, 285. of the thigh, 770. lucidum, 217. medullae oblongata?, 202. nasi, 140. pontis, 205. pectiniforme, 620. scroti, 464. of the tongue, 156. ventriculorum, 217. Serratus magnus muscle, 260. posticus inferior, 406. superior, 406. Seventh nerve, (o) 195. (c) 151. (d) 35. Sheath of the fingers, 306. of the rectus, 473. of the toes, 717. Shoulder-joint, 287. Sigmoid artery, 509. flexure of the colon, 499. valves, 355. 358. Sinus, basilar, 16. of the bulb, 619. cavernous, 16. circular, of Ridley, 16. lateral, 15. longitudinal, inferior, 14. superior, 11. occipital, 15. petrosal, inferior, 16. GrINDEX. 818 Sinus, petrosal, superior, 16. pocularis, 618. prostaticus, 618. straight, of the skull, 15. torcular, 14. transverse, 16. of Valsalva, 358. Sixth nerve, (o) 194. (c) 20. (d) 50. Small intestine, 497. omentum, 502. Socia parotidis, 31. Soft commissure, 223. Soft palate, 133. muscles of, 134. Solar plexus, 521. Sole of the foot, dissection of, 715. Soleus muscle, 708. Spermatic artery, (o) 567. (d) 561. cord, 477. fascia, 468. nerves, 478. plexus, 478. 511. veins, (o) 561. (c) 478. 571. Spheno-palatine artery, 148. ganglion, 145. nerves, 105. 146. Sphincter ani externus, 441. internus, 441. Sphincter vagina?, 456. vesicas, 615. Spigelian lobe, 542. Spinal accessory nerve, (o) 196. (d) 116. 400. arteries, 186. 430. cord, 430. membranes of, 423. cord, structure, 433. nerves, 427. filaments of origin, 434. roots of, 427. veins, 430. Spinalis dorsi muscle, 408. Spiral tube of the cochlea, 786. Splanchnic nerve, large, 387. (d) 523. small, 388. (d) 523. smallest, 388. (d) 523. Spleen, 538. connections, 500. structure, 538. Splenic artery, 516. 540. omentum, 504. plexus of nerves, 522. vein, 518. 540. Splenius capitis muscle, 407. colli, 407. Spongy bones, 141. part of the urethra, 593. 618^ Stapedius muscle, 781. Stapes bone, 779. Stellate ligament, 392. Stenson's duct, 31. Sterno-clavicular articulation, 182. cleido-mastoid muscle, 66. hyoid muscle, 67. thyroid, 67. Stomach, form and divisions, 524. connections of, 495. structure of, 525. Straight sinus, 15. Stylo-hyoid ligament, 107. muscle, 80. nerve, 40. glossus muscle, 100. 157. mastoid artery, 80. 83. maxillary ligament, 90. pharyngeus muscle, 107. Subanconeus muscle, 285. Sub-arachnoid space, 184. of the cord, 425. Subclavian artery, left, 122. (o) 365. right, 70. vein, 74. Subclavius muscle, 255. Subcutaneous malar nerve, 52. Sublingual artery, 101. gland, 103. Submaxillary ganglion, 102. gland, 97. region, 97. Submental artery, 83: Sub-occipital nerve, anterior branch, 118. posterior branch, 413. Subperitoneal fat, 476. 490. Subpubic ligament, 640. Subscapular artery, 257. nerves, 259. vein, 258. Subscapulars muscle, 266. Substantia cinerea gelatinosa, 434. Sulci of brain, 212. Sulcus, longitudinal, of the liver, 542. transverse, 542. Sulcus of the spinal cord, anterior, 432. lateral, 432. posterior, 432. Superficialis cervicalis artery, 405. volae, 297. Superficial fascia of the abdomen, 460. of the perinaeum, 444. of the thigh, 647. 649. Supinator radii brevis, 321. longus, 317. Supra-orbital artery, 6. 49. nerve, 7. 44. renal capsule, 554. plexus, 522. scapular artery, 73. 272. nerve, 76. 273. 405.INDEX. 819 Supra-spinal artery, 272. nerve, 273. spinatus muscle, 272. trochlear nerve, 7. 44. Suspensory ligament of the lens, 769. of the liver, 505. of the penis, 464. Sympathetic nerve in the abdomen, 520. 578. 608. in the head, 22. in the neck, 118. in the pelvis, 608. in the thorax, 387. Symphysis pubis, 639. Synovial gland, 704. Taenia hippocampi, 221. semicircularis, 220. Tapetum, 762. Tarsal artery, 733. cartilages, 35. Tarso-metatarsal articulations, 749. Teeth, 138. Tegmentum, 209. Temporal aponeurosis, 4. artery, 84. deep, 92. middle, 85. superficial, 6. fascia, 4. muscle, 4; 87. nerves, deep, 93. superficial, 8. 41. vein, 7. 85. Temporo-facial nerve, 40. maxillary articulation, 89. Tendo Achillis, 709. palpebrarum, 35. Tendon of triceps extensor, 770. Tensor palati muscle, 134. tarsi, 51. tympani, 780. vaginas femoris, 667. Tentorium cerebelli, 14. Teres major muscle, 270. . minor, 269. Testes, 555. Thalamus opticus, 224. 229. Thebesian foramina, 352. valve, 352. Thigh, dissection of, back, 694. front, 645. Third nerve, (o) 193. (c) 19. (d) 46. 50. ventricle, 222. Thoracic duct, 123. 385. ganglia, 387. nerves, anterior, 259. nerve, posterior, (o) 76. (d) 260. Thoracica-acromialis, artery, 257. 3 G Thoracica-alaris, 257. humeraria, 257. longa, 257. suprema, 257. Thorax, boundaries of, 337. parietes of, 261. 388. Thyro-arytaanoid articulation, 173. ligaments, 166. arytasnoideus muscle, 163. epiglottidean ligament, 173. hyoid membrane, 172. muscle, 67. nerve, 81. Thyroid artery, inferior, 73. 169. lowest, 74. superior, 82. 168. axis of artery, 73. body, 124. cartilage, 170. plexus of veins, 124. vein, inferior, 74. 125. middle, 79. superior, 83. 169. Tibial artery, anterior, 732. posterior, 712. 714. nerve, anterior, 735. (d) 729. posterior, 714„ veins, anterior, 734. Tibial veins, posterior, 713. Tibialis anticus muscle, 730. posticus, 711. 726. Tibio-tarsal articulation, 744. Tongue, 153. muscles of, 157. nerves of, 160. vessels of, 161. Tonsil, 136. Tonsillitic artery, 83. Torcular Herophili, 14. Trachea, connections of, 125. 375. structure of, 174. Trachelo-mastoid muscle, 410. Tragus, 37. muscle, 38. Transverse fissure of the cerebrum, 221. of the liver, 542. ligament of the acetabulum, 703. ligament of the atlas, 181. of the metacarpus, 314. of the metatarsus, 725. of the knee, 742. perinatal artery, 445. sinus, 15. Transversalis abdominis muscle, 472. cervicalis artery, (o) 73. (d) 405.INDEX. ;20 Pransversalis colli muscle, 410. faciei artery, (o) 85. (d)30. fascia, 476. iransversus auriculae muscle, 38. linguae, 159. pedis, 723. perinaei, 448. deep, 450. trapezius muscle, 400. ?rapezoid ligament, 271. ?riangle of the neck, anterior, 63. posterior, 56. 7riangular cartilage of the nose, 141. fibro-cartilage of wrist, 329. ligament of the groin, 469. of the urethra, 449. space of the thigh, 660. triangularis sterni muscle, 263. triceps extensor cruris, 668. cubiti, 284. tricuspid valver 354. 7rigeminal nerve, (o) 194. (c) 19. Mgonum vesicae, 616. trochlea, 46. trochlear nerve, infra, 47. supra, 7. 44. ?ube of the cochlea, 786. 7uber cinereum, 209. ?ubercle of Rolando, 203. 7ubercula quadrigemina, 226. ^uberculum Loweri, 351. tubules of the stomach, 526. of small intestine, 530. of large intestine, 536. \sbuli seminiferi, 558. uriniferi, 551. Arnica albuginea oculi, 756. testis, 557. conjunctiva, 36. Ruyschiana, 761. vaginalis, 555. vasculosa testis, 557. "urbinate bones, 141. tympanic artery, 92. ympanum, 775. arteries of, 781. lining membrane, 781. nerves of, 782. Jlnar artery, 299. 306. nerve, (o) 259. (c) 282. (d) 301. 307. veins, 291. cutaneous, anterior, 291. posterior, 291. Jmbilical hernia, 488. region of the abdomen, 494. Jmbilicus, 467. Jreter, 553. 591. Urethra, female, 634. connections, 598. orifice of, 626. structure, 634. male, interior, 617. connections, 592. structure, 619. Uterine arteries, 604. 631. plexus of nerves, 610. veins and sinuses, 606. 631. Uterus, 629. interior of, 630. ligaments of, 596. connections of, 597. structure of, 630. Utricle of the ear, 789. of the urethra, 618. Uveairidis, 763. Uvula cerebelli, 231. palati, 133. vesicae, 616. Vagina, connections, 598. 626. structure and form, 627. Vaginal arteries, 604. plexus, 610. veins, 606. Vagus nerve, 114. 195. 370. 523. Vallecula, 230. Valve, cystic, 548. Eustachian, 352. of caecum, 534. mitral, 357. semilunar, 355. 358. of Thebesius, 352. tricuspid, 354. of Vieussens, 234. Valvulae conniventes, 529. Vas deferens, 560. aberrans, 560c Vasa brevia arteries, 517. efferentia testis, 559. rete testis, 559. vorticosa, 761. Vastus externus muscle, 669. internus muscle, 669. Vein, alveolar, 149. angular, 7. ascending cervical, 73. lumbar, 580. pharyngeal, 111. auditory, 791. auricular posterior, 7. 84. axillary, 258. azygos, large, 383. 575. small, 383. 575. superior, left, 383. basilic, 275. brachial, 280.INDEX. 821 Vein, brachio-cephalic, left, 367. right, 367. bronchial, left, 381. right, 381. cardiac, anterior, 349. great, 349. small, 350. cava, inferior, 570. superior, 366. cephalic, 275. cerebral, 11. 190. choroid, 764. circumflex iliac, 481. coronary, of the heart, 349. of the stomach, 518. of the corpus cavernosum, 621. striatum, 222. deep cervical, 73. 416. diaphragmatic, inferior, 571. superior, 370. dorsi-spinal, 416. dorsal, of the penis, 465. 605. emulgent, 571. epigastric, deep, 481. superficial, 651. facial, 29. 84. femoral, 662. 667. frontal, 7. of Galen, 222. gastro-epiploic, left, 518. hasmorrhoidal, 605. hepatic, 547. iliac, common, 570. external, 570. internal, 605. infra-orbital, 106. innominate, 367. intercostal, 382. posterior branch, 416. superior, left, 382. right, 382. intra-spinal, 435. interlobular, 546. intra-lobular, 547. jugular, anterior, 65. external, 55. internal, left, 124. right, 79. 109. laryngeal, 169. lingual, 101. longitudinal, of the spine, anterior, 435. lumbar, or vertebro-lumbar, 416. 580. mammary, internal, 264. median, of the arm, 274. 291. basilic, 275. cephalic, 275. maxillary, internal, 93. Vein, mesenteric, inferior, 510. superior, 508. occipital, 7. 84. 416. ophthalmic, 49. palpebral, inferior, 30. pancreatic, 518. perinseal, superficial, 445. pharyngeal, 111. phrenic, inferior, 571. popliteal, 698. portal, 519. (d) 546. posterior spinal, plexus of, 436. profunda, of the thigh, 679. pterygoid plexus, 93. pudic, external, 651. internal, (o) 621. (c) 453. 605. pulmonary, 368. radial, cutaneous, 291. ranine, 101. renal, 571. sacral, lateral, 606. middle, 606. saphenous, external, 706. (o) 728. internal, 651. 706. (o) 728. spermatic, 478. 561, 571. spinal, 430. splenic, 518. 540. subclavian, 74. sublobular, 547. subscapular, 258. supra-orbital, 7. renal, 571. scapular, 74. 273. temporal, 85. superficial, 7. thyroid, inferior, 74. middle, 110. superior, 83. tibial, anterior, 734. posterior, 713. transverse, cervical, 74. tympanic, 781. ulnar, 291. cutaneous, anterior, 291. posterior, 291. umbilical, 543. uterine, 606. vaginal, 606. vertebral, 73. 178. of the vertebrae, 436. vertebro-costal, 382. lumbar, 416. 580. vesical, 605. Velum interpositum, 222. pendulum palati, 133. Vena cava, inferior, 513. superior, 366.822 INDEX. Vena porta?, 519. (d) 546. Venae cavse hepaticae, 547. Venous arch of the foot, 728. of the hand, 291. Ventricles of the brain, 215. fifth, 218. Ventricles, fourth, 235. lateral, 216. third, 222. Ventricles of the heart, 348. left, 356. right, 353. structure of, 360. of the larynx, 165. Vermiform appendix, 533. processes, 230. 235. Vertebral artery, (o) 72. (c) 177. (d) 186. plexus, 178. vein, 73. (o) 178. Vessels of the brain, 186. of the dura mater, 17. Veru montanum, 618. Vesica urinaria, 614. Vesical artery, inferior, 601. superior, 601. Vesical plexus of nerves, 609. veins, 605. Vesicula prostatica, 618. Vesiculae seminales connections, 592. structure, 613. Vestibule of the ear, 783. artery of, 790. nerve of, 791. of the vulva, 626. Vidian artery, 149. nerve, 147. Villi, intestinal, 530. Vitreous body, 768. fluid, 769^ Vocal cords, 166. Vulva, 625. Wharton's duct, 103. Winslow's foramen, 504. Wrisberg's nerve, 259. 276. 282. Wrist joint, 327. Yellow spot of Scemmerring, 766, 767. Zygomaticus, major muscle, 28. minor, 28. THE END. London: Sfottiswoodes and Shaw, New-street- Square.