A LECTURE ON THE ARCHITECTURE 26 Monsieur John has ascertained that the brown matter of the brain does not contain phosphorus; and Monsieur Chevreul has recently dis- covered a white and pearly substance which he considers a proximate principle proper to the nervous system. This organ is larger in man than in any other known animal, in pro- portion to the size of the nerves arising from it : its general weight is, according to Soemmering, from 2 lb. 5\ oz. to 3 lb. 3^ oz. I have weighed several at 4 lb.* The brain of the late Lord Byron (without its membranes) weighed 6 lb., and contained more medullary substance than ordinary :f as also did that of Oliver Cromwell. That of the late Dr. Gall weighed only 2 lb. 10 oz. 1\ drs. Here is a very curious differ- ence, and neither can be said to'be deficient in intellect. The weight of Dr. Spurzheim’s brain I have not been able to procure. Baron Cuvier’s brain weighed, according to the report of Monsieur Berard, professor at L'Ecole de Medecin, Paris, 3 lbs. 13A ozs.; but by Monsieur Rousseau’s statement it was 3 lbs. 14 ozs. 4 drs. Thus much for the gravity of the human brain, which has no doubt more or less influence on the mental manifestations, according to the phrenological doctrine that size is indicative of power. The brain of a horse weighs only 1 lb. 4 oz. Dr. Monro found that of an ox to be one-fourth the dimensions of the human brain; and Captain Scoresby, jun., weighed the brain of a Greenland whale (the Balcena Mysticetus), 19 feet long, and it only weighed 3|lb., although the animal weighed nearly 11,2001b. The weight of the brain was nearly the isUth part of the body.:}: Having slightly mentioned the phenomena of the human mind at page 6, I here insert a condensed analysis of the various powers or faculties, premising that it is founded on the following basis, from long and extensive observation. First.—That the brain is the material instrument through the medium of which the mind carries on intercourse with the external world. Secondly.—That the mind is not matter, or composed of any material substance, although it depends upon the brain being well constructed in all its portions ; it therefore, though not matter itself yet the due per- formance of its mysterious and multifarious functions depends upon matter. Thirdly.—That the brain is composed of an aggregate number of parts or organs, each of which has a special or determinate function or faculty to perform. Fourthly.—That the exterior of the skull generally partakes of the form of the brain within, and that by an inspection of it externally a pretty accurate idea of the mental manifestations of the individual can be ascertained. The Mental Faculties of Man are thus divided : — * Dissertation on the Component Parts of the Animal Body, being a Lecture introductory] to the Study of Human, Comparative, and Physiological Anatomy. Third Edition. By H. W. Dewhurst. 1831. f Medium’s Conversation, Appendix, p. 520, ( 6. + Voyage to the Arctic Regions, vol. i. 1823.