OF THE HUMAN BODY. 9 many bones enables it to grow much faster, and with greater facility. In the early foetal state, as the first and second month after we are created, that which afterwards becomes the strong bony case of the brain, exists only as a tough flexible membrane. Ossification, or the deposition of bony matter, commences in the middle of each bone long before birth ;* * the brain soon appears as if it was covered by so many scales or shells held together by the membrane not yet ossified. In order to facilitate the birth of the child, those scales overlap each other, so as most usefully to dimmish the size of the skull. If the cranium had only consisted of one bone, this provident design of nature could not have taken place. The dove-tailed joints by which the bones of the skull are connected are evidently ol great utility in preventing the extension of fractures of the bones of the head ; owing to the sutures which prevent the extension of the fracture, we generally find the effects of the injury confined to the bone on which the blow was received. In no other part of animals do we see a greater instance of me- chanical advantage, or lever power, than in the lower jaw. The tem- poral and masseter muscles pull almost directly at right angles to the line of the jaw; while in most other cases, as in that of the deltoid muscle lifting the arm, the muscles act obliquely, and with intensity diminished in proportion to their obliquity : an object placed between the back teeth is compressed with the whole direct power of the strong muscles of the jaw. Hence the human jaw can crush a body that resists with great force. The teeth form an extraordinary set of chisels and wedges for cutting and tearing the food. They are covered with a hard substance called enamel ; on this account the teeth of many of the larger animals were used in former times for the same purposes as we now use steel, from the greater quantity of earth they contain. A set of small teeth appear soon after birth, and serve the child until the sixth or seventh year; these, in the course of time, fall out, and are replaced by larger ones, which last during a considerable period of our life. The number of teeth is only completed when the man or woman is full grown, by four more, called wisdom teeth. In order to facilitate the various movements of the head backward and forward, and in the act of nodding, looking upward and downward, —to effect these extensive purposes, it moves as an articulated fulcrum or prop, on which it can turn either backward or forward, up or down, horizontally to the right or to the left. The two first movements are effected by a hinge-joint fitted to the atlas or first bone of the neck, when it assumes an appearance of being composed as it were but of one solid bone. Some- times this phenomenon (indicative of advanced age) is perceived in the skulls of young indi- viduals. 1 have in my craniological collection a skull, presented me several years ago by my obstetric friend Dr. Vein IleydelofF, wherein the sutures are perfectly obliterated, and yet the dentes sapiential, or wisdom teeth, had not made their appearance through the gums, although they had been formed within the sockets. Dr. Bruno states that when he had examined the head of the illustrious Lord Byron not a vestige of them remained : in fact it exhibited all the appearance of an octagenarian, although that nobleman was ouly thirty- seven years of age at the period of his lamented demise. * In my museum I have the skeleton of a foetus, between the third and fourth month after its original formation, wherein the rudiments of the various bones are beautifully exhibited; and in the Hunterian Museum of the lloyal College of Surgeons, in London, similar appearances arc shown in the skeleton of a foetus six weeks after conception.