A LECTURE ON THE ARCHITECTURE 12 ently constructed for these purposes, according to the movement required and the instruments used. For example, at the knee and elbow, where the joint is large, which serves only to move the limb in the same plane, the tendons are placed parallel to them, and lengthen or shorten in that direction ; but in the hip and shoulder, where the ball and socket joint is found, the muscles are variously placed, and are capable of contracting and restoring themselves in each position. The muscles also, by their different directions, support the bones, particularly the head; and all the limbs are regulated in their movements chiefly by their agency. For the muscles cannot expand beyond their na- tural size, though they can contract; therefore, to produce a contrary motion, another muscle must be called into action : it is by this contrary motion of the muscles of the face that the features are duly balanced in their places. The natural strength of the muscles may be either in- creased or diminished by exercise ; for we perceive the legs of a dancing-master, the arms of a pugilist, waterman, or anchor-smith, are stronger by use. All the limbs of the body are levers of the third class ; for the resistance must be farther from the prop than the power, the power being in the joint itself; yet all is easy, no difficulty arises :— “ For it is the work of an Almighty God.” In some parts of the body, where the tendons of one muscle pass over those of another, is a beautiful apparatus containing synovia, a fluid generally known by the name of joint-oil, similar to a bag ; these are called bursa mucosa; by this means the danger from friction is avoided. Muscles in general are pairs (with one or two exceptions we find them single, as the circular muscle of the mouth, &c.) Their number has been estimated at two hundred and eighty-nine ; but as they are the same on both sides this must be doubled, which makes five hundred and seventy-eight, an enumeration which is pretty nearly correct. All animal motion is effected by the muscles. They are divided into two great classes, viz. the voluntary and involuntary; those under the influence of the will, as the muscles of the arm and leg, &c. ; and those whose action is independent of the will, as the heart, &c., which is merely a hollow muscle for the purpose of receiving the blood, and propelling it by means of arteries to all parts of the body. Each muscle has an antagonist muscle, viz. one that acts in a direction contrary to the other : for example, two muscles throw the arm out, which are called the ex- tensors; and two others bend the arm, and are called the flexors; one muscle relaxes while the other contracts. Nothing is satisfactorily known about muscular contraction : this physiological question is not decided. The muscles are supplied with nervous energy by means of white cords called nerves, which arise from the brain and spinal marrow ; we know notliino- of the nature of this principle circulating in nerVes ; we can only witness its effects. That nervous energy is necessary to the healthy performance of the various functions of the body, there can be no doubt. Digestion, secretion, sight, hearing, smelling, tasting, &c., cannot be effected if the nerve of communication between their respective func- tions and the brain be divided. . . , . e The body is supported by the blood, which is circulated by means o tubes denominated arteries and veins; the former carrying it from, and