19 OF THE HUMAN BOBY. In the abdomen we. have the liver, stomach, intestines, and pancreas,* for the performance of the functions of digestion; and the kidneys, for eliminating the superfluous quantity of fluid formed in the system. I have already stated that an animal body is supported by means of blood, which is carried from the heart by means of tubes called arteries, and circulated by these through all parts of the body, and conveyed back again to .the heart by veins. The nutritious portions of the various kinds of food we daily swallow are converted into blood. After masti- cating our food it mixes with the saliva of the mouth, and is conveyed in a pulpy state to the stomach : it is there acted upon by a juice secreted by glands within the coats of the stomach called gastric juice, which converts the food into chyle ; it then passes from the stomach in this state into the first of the small intestines called the duodenum, where the nutritive part becomes separated from the feculent, and is converted into chyle, a substance resembling milk, which enters into a large vessel called the thoracic duct, and passes upwards to its termination in a large vein near the neck, where it is converted into blood. This blood is not adapted for the nourishment of the body without passing through the lungs, where it is acted upon by the oxygen of the atmosphere, and becomes oxygenated, converted into arterial blood, in which state it nourishes the human body, whilst the remaining portions, not con- taining any nutrient particles, are ejected from the body. The five organs of sense in connection with the brain are the material instruments by which we enjoy intercourse with the external world. 1. The organ of vision. In man, and the higher orders of animals, they are two in number, situated in cavities formed by certain bones of the cranium and face. They are furnished with muscles which move them in every direction, and surrounded by a very soft delicate species of fat, which protects them, and yields to them in all their movements. The eye is composed of a series of tunics, some of which are transparent, containing three diaphanous humours, through which the rays of light are transmitted to the retina, and enables us to perceive objects around us. There are appendages, as the eyebrow, &c., whose offices are to preserve the eye from injury. 2. The organ of hearing is a most beautiful but complicated piece of mechanism, and is divided into the external and internal ear, by the musculus tympani, or drum of the ear. The former is on the outside and well known, the latter is contained within the petrous process, or internal portion of the bone. The limits of this lecture, however, will not permit me to give even a concentrated description of this organ. 3. The organ of smelling. The seat of this sense is in the cavity of the nose, in which a delicate vascular membrane is distributed throughout its extent, and upon which the olfactory nerves are ramified in great numbers. Its office is the detection of fragrant and unpleasant odours, and to secrete a mucus for its defence. 4. The organ of taste. It would be a waste of words to describe the form and situation of the tongue. Besides constituting the organ of taste, it presents a most interesting subject to the physiologist and patho- logist, from the concern it has in the functions of mastication, deglutition, * Denominated the sweetbread by the butchers and the public. Tt is considered digesti- ble as an article of food, whereas it is directly the contrary, and ought to be avoided, espe- cially by invalids, and ladies when in their accouchement.