A LECTURE ON TIIF. ARCHITECTURE 10 hut limited by ligaments, in its movements backward and forward, to prevent suffocation. The horizontal motion is effected by a peculiar auxiliary placed on the bone below the first vertebra. It is a process of bone resembling a tooth,* which fits into a pivot of the bone above it, and serves as an axle for the head to turn, but only to a limited extent,+ the muscles on each side protecting it from danger. The spinal, or back bones, have various uses and amazing powers that can never be wholly investigated ; yet the reflective man can perceive sufficient of the magnificent design to compel him to adore and venerate the superior excellence of his God ! The spine, in figure, resembles, in some degree, an Italic f, and con- sists of twenty-four vertebrae, or bones, joined together by smooth- rubbing surfaces, and connected to each other by very strong inter- vening cartilages, more correctly termed intervertebral substance, which is extremely pliable, allowing great motion to the bones, and preventing their separation from one another, which would be followed by a material injury to the spinal marrow, and consequently to the destruction of life. The spine is the centre pillar, on the top of which the head i3 situated ; its use is to contain a prolongation of the brain, called the spinal marrow, which is of the greatest importance to animal life : if it is injured in the slightest degree, immediate death, or a paralysis of the parts below the injured portion, are the consequences. Consequently, in unison with all the works of the Creator, we find the spine uniting with great strength, great elasticity and flexibility. The spine is susceptible of the greatest variety of motion ; J if it had only con- sisted of one bone, no motion could have taken place, and the spinal marrow would have been rendered more liable to injury. Those horrible distortions of the spine so often seen in highly civilized circles are the effects of a disease of the intervertebral substance between the bones of the spine, and likewise of the bones of the spinal column themselves, created by that disgraceful system of tight-lacing the stays by fashionable females. And if we make a comparison of the skeleton of a lady of high life with that of a female who has lived in a state of nature, or without wearing such a ridiculous and injurious article of dress, they will speak volumes to an unprejudiced mind against the continuance of their employment. From the spinal marrow, the nerves supplying some of the principal organs in the chest, abdomen, and pelvis, as also the inferior extremities, receive their origin. The spine affords support to all the muscles of the trunk; the ribs are articulated into the vertebrae of the back. “ Were an artist,” says an eminent author, “ to attempt to form a chain, which should be capable of supporting a weight perpendicularly, and at the same time flexible, he would compose it of strong and short links, and endeavour to combine flexibility and strength, so as to act in oppo- sition to each other ; but he would find it very difficult to effect his pur- pose, even for the support of a small weight in this manner.” There are twenty-four bones in the human spine, joined to each other by broad bases ; in some parts these bases are shallower than in * Hence its name—Vertebra Dentata, or axis of the neck. t In birds there is a perfect ball and socket joint between the occipital bone and the fust vertebra of the neck, thus enabling the animal to move his head in every direction. t As an example, notice the contortions of harlequins, posture-masters, <Scc.