21 OF THE HUMAN BODY. A poor little helpless being, possessing neither sense nor reason to guide him, nor strength to support him, nor abilities to administer to his wants, but by the most piteous shrieks and cries. Were it not that he is at this period supported by maternal affection, he would soon “ Go to that bourne from whence no traveller returns.” Whereas, if we look at the brute creation,* we shall find at this period Providence has made them the superior of man, but only in this solitary instance. The quadruped can walk and feed without help, and, what is more, is even clothed by the omnipotent Deity. Now let us turn to man in his latter years, when he is about to shake off this mortal coil of infirmities and disease. When old age ap- proaches, the arterial system acts more weakly, the irritability is less, the functions are more weak, the glands diminish in bulk, the fat is absorbed, and the fluids become more acrid. The arteries can no longer conquer the accumulated load in the veins, the brain is overloaded, and serum exhales in the abdomen and under the skin; the glandular vessels cannot propel their fluids, the nerves no longer possess their irritability, and the senses decay. From these causes the limbs grow stiff, the arteries ossify, or are partially converted into bone, the whole system is oppressed with a load it cannot overcome : in fact, the proverb becomes verified, “ Once a man, and twice a child.” Naked and helpless he came into this world, and helpless he goes out of it. His memory fails, his steps faulter, his voice trembles, his health decays, his eyes become dim, and at last his vital functions refuse to perform their office, nature fails, and he expires ! Then he becomes as though he had never been. For “the Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away ; blessed be the name of the Lord.” ANALYTICAL TABLES ILLUSTRATIVE OF THE PRECEDING PAGES. TABLE J. SHOWING THE COMPONENT PARTS OF AN ANIMAL BODY. r Cellular. Solids. 1. Bones. r Articular. Inter-Articular 2. Cartilages-^ Tracheal, and Laryngeal. •Sternal, &c. 3. Ligaments. 4. Membrane, 1 nerous. k Mucous. 5. Cellular substance. 6. Fat. 7. Muscles. 8. Tendons. * T he feathered tribe are as helpless as ourselves at their escape from the shell, and for some time after.