17 OF THE HUMAN BODY. the latter returning it to, the heart, which organ gives a motion to the arteries, synchronous with the heart itself, and extending to the ex- tremest ramification in the body; this motion we denominate the pulse. Thus is man a complete piece of machinery, the whole of which is put into action by means of a power derived from the brain through the agency of its nerves. The vital fluid passes from the heart into the lungs in a state dangerous to the preservation of life, being loaded with carbon, which it giyes off in these organs, on receiving a due proportion of oxygen from the atmosphere, and the blood becomes purified and fit for the support of animal life. It circulates from the heart of a bright scarlet colour, and returns again to this organ of a reddish black, united with a great quantity of carbon, which it has obtained in the course of its circulation, after it has performed the trifold offices of secretion, 7tu- trition, and vivification, or the preservation of life; while the digestive organs perform their due offices, create the various secretions, and form new blood in lieu of that which is expended. The arterial blood is distributed from the left or aortic side of the heart all over the body, by means of the greatest artery or blood-vessel called the aorta, which subdivides in its course, and ultimately terminates in myriads of very minute ramifications, closely interwoven with, and in reality constituting a large portion of, the texture of every living part. On reaching this extreme point of its course, the blood passes into equally minute ramifications of the veins, which, in their turn, gradually coalesce and form larger and larger trunks, till they at last terminate in two large veins, by which the whole current of the venous blood is brought back in a direction contrary to that in the arteries, and poured into the right or cavic side of the heart. On examining the quality of the blood in these two systems of vessels, it is found to have undergone a' great change in its passage from the one to the other. The florid hue which distinguishes it in the arteries has disappeared, and given place to the dark colour characteristic of venous blood. Its properties have also changed, and it is now no longer capable of sustaining life. Two con- ditions are essential to the reconversion of venous into arterial blood, and to the restoration of its vital properties. The first is an adequate provision of new materials from the food, to supply the place of those which have been expended in nutrition ; and the second is the free ex- posure of the venous blood to the atmospheric air. The first condition is fulfilled by the chyle or nutrient principle of the food being regularly poured into the venous blood just before it reaches the right side of the heart; and the second, by the very important process of respiration which takes place in the air-cells of the lungs, and which it is my pre- sent object to explain. The venous blood, having arrived at the right side of the heart, is propelled by the contraction of that organ into a large artery, leading directly, by separate branches, to the two lungs, and hence called the pulmonary artery. In the innumerable branches of this artery, expanding themselves throughout the substance of the lungs, the dark blood is subjected to the contact of the air inhaled in breathing ; and a change in the composition both of the blood and of the inhaled air takes place, in consequence of which the former is found to have assumed its florid or arterial hue, and to have re- gained its power of supporting life. The blood then enters minute venous ramifications, which gradually coalesce into larger branches, and c