18 A LECTURE ON THE ARCHITECTURE at last terminate in four large trunks in the left or cavic side of the- heart; whence the blood in its arterial form is again distributed over the body, to pursue the same course and undergo the same changes as before. The exposure of the blood to the action of the air seems to be indispensable to every variety of animated creatures. In man, and the higher classes of animals, it is carried on in the lungs, the structure of which is admirably adapted for the purpose. In many animals, however, the requisite action is effected without the intervention of lungs. In fishes, for example, who live in a dense medium, and do not breathe, the blood circulates through the gills ; which, being con- stantly and directly in contact with the water, are therefore more ac- cessible to the action of the air the water contains, and much better adapted than lungs would be to the medium in which fishes live. In worms, on the other hand, and many similar animals, no distinct organ is set apart for the purpose; but the aeration of the blood takes place at the surface of the body by means of pores in the skin called spiracula, specially adapted to this end, and which cannot be shut up or obstructed, any more than the real lungs or gills, without inducing death. So necessary, indeed, is atmospheric air* to the vitality of the blood in all classes of animals, that its abstraction inevitably induces death; and a fish can no more live in water deprived of air than a man could in an atmosphere deprived of oxygen. And thus the fish requires a renewal of air, and perishes when it is denied, exactly as man does in similar circumstances. The blood in an adult human body has been estimated to circulate throughout the whole system in four hours, or about six times in the course of a single day. Its quantity has been estimated by Bartholinef to be about twenty-four pounds, and Sir Charles Bell! considers thirty- three pounds as the average proportion, but in my opinion its exact quantity can never be truly ascertained. By means of the beautiful mechanism of the heart and lungs is the important function of the circulation of the blood accomplished; and there is no portion of physiological research which displays greater per- fection of design, a more admirable and splendid contrivance, or more ingenious machinery than is exhibited in the formation of the heart and its vessels. The exquisite construction of even the most minute organ, and the harmonious sympathy pervading the whole, are objects of wonder, and must ever excite the veneration and admiration of all who delight to search after and contemplate the more elaborate works and unerring operations of the great Author of Nature. Well may we exclaim with the illustrious Addison, “ That the hand who made us is divine.” Or with the unfortunate Thomson, the inimitable author of the Seasons : “ ’Tis surely God Whose unremitting energy pervades, , Adjusts, sustains, and agitates the whole ; He ceaseless works alone, and yet alone Seems not to work, yet with such perfection framed Is this complex stupendous scheme of things.” * Atmospheric air is composed of twenty-one parts of a gas called oxygen (which is the most important part, being equally indispensable to life and combustion), and seventy-nine azote or nitrogen. The air contains other matter, always a little water in suspension, lie- quently a little carbonic acid gas, and many aromatic particles. t The discoverer of the lymphatic system of vessels. t Animal Mechanics, pait 11.