6 A LECTURE ON THE ARCHITECTURE moral sentiments govern his animal passions, and give him a sense of good and evil ; lastly, his intellectual faculties'* stamp his importance and superiority, as composing the summit of the animal kingdom. These two last series (notwithstanding the erroneous and atheistical assertions of Robert Owen and his truly unfortunate deluded disciples;) resolve themselves into the sentiments of conscientiousness, free-will, a moral sense of right and wrong, and prove the existence “ Of a (Divine) First Great Cause,” which the infidel is reluctantly compelled to admit. Man alone is blessed with a power (apparently denied to the lower animals) of communi- cating his thoughts, wishes, wants, and feelings ; he alone can look back on, reflect, and contemplate the past; look forward, and calculate the destinies of the future : it is then that he feels as if an instinct in- formed him, or of a secret voice that warned him of his being by a divine Providence intended for a future and a higher destiny. This being the case, well might the immortal Dr. Youngt exclaim, “ 0 ! what a miracle to man is man !” His structure actually astonishes us with the wondrous excellence of its delicate conformation. Let. us philosophically examine the manner in which he is constructed, and we shall find that it is in perfect accord- ance with the most exact mechanical principles : investigating the heart and the blood-vessels, through which the vital fluid circulates, it is proved to be a perfect hydraulic machine, the heart being a most powerful engine by which the blood is propelled to the extremest part of the body ; the,lungs constitute an inimitable pneumatic apparatus ; the beautiful membranes and transparent humours of the eye, forming an admirable optical instrument; in the same manner are ihe ears con- structed on the most accurate principles of acoustics. Thus, on a very brief survey of our own bodies, our minds become duly elevated to a sense of admiration of the creative wisdom of the Omnipotent Architect of this vast universe ; we are thus led from the study of the works of the Author of Nature up to Nature’s God, in fact, as the Apostle St. Paul justly observes,—for “ In him we live, move, and have our being and cannot but acknowledge ourselves as the work of a most skilful ami unerring engineer. No just appreciation of the great powers and * These are situated in the. forehead, which, when elevated like that of the late lord, Byron, or expanded like that of the late emperor Napoleon, Dr. Franklin, and Mr. Can- ning, points out the grandeur of the intellectual character ; but when receding, as in some individuals, or totally flat, as in the Carib and other Indians, it at once points them out as the lowest and most degraded of the human species, unless reformed by the delightful and cheering prospects of religion and Christianity. For an analysis of the mental faculties, the reader is referred to page 20. . t This illustrious clergyman was for many years rector of Welwyn, in Hertfordshire, where he died, and the only memorial to his revered remains is a small tablet fixed in the wall so as scarcely to be perceived by the congregation of rustics who weekly assemble in that house of prayer. Although his " Night Thoughts” and other poems will carry down his name to posterity ; yet his talents during life were not thought worth rewarding by the porters who then existed. Still it is lamentable that the present literary public have not raised a monument to him in Westminster Abbey, among the illustrious characters who there repose. t Acts of the Apostles, chap. xvii. vcr. 28.