7 OF TIIE HUMAN BODY. wisdom of the Deity can he formed until we have investigated man, and compared his structure and character with the inferior orders of animals: of the truth of this the immortal Dr. Watts was convinced, when he said, “ Though I could reach from pole to pole, And hold th’ equator in my span ; I must be measured by my soul, The mind’s the standard of the man.” The construction of the human body has been so beautifully para- phrased by the poet (Dr. Arbuthnot), that I cannot resist quoting him. ile justly observes— “ Am I but what I seem, mere flesh and blood, A branching channel, and a mazy flood 1 The purple stream that through my vessels glides. Dull and unconscious flows like common tides ; The pipes through which the circling juices stray Are not that thinking I no more than they. This frame, compacted with transcendent skill Of moving joints, obedmit to my will, Nursed from the fruitful glebe, like yonder tree. Waxes and wastes, I call it mine, not me. New matter still the mouldering mass sustains ; The mansion changed, the tenant still remains ; And, from the fleeting stream repair’d by food, Distinct as is the swimmer from the flood.” “ Of dust thou art, and unto dust shalt thou return,”* said the Divine Creator to our first parents, when they, by their own disobedience to his commands, fell from a state of primeval bliss into sin, thereby entailing misery and death to their posterity ; however, let us but for a moment look and examine of what materials we are composed. What an animated being is man! how vigorous and powerful he is! of what beautiful and complicated machinery is his graceful column formed ! it being composed of bonesf (articulations or), joints, arteries, and veins, clothed with muscles and integuments! see how duly it is balanced! how aptly it is contrived for his various movements! At the summit of this column is placed the head, specially appointed to this high situation * Genesis, chap. iii. v. 19. t The number of bones in a human adult skeleton amounts to about 254, as follows :— Appertaining to the head 60 Ditto to the trunk 56 Ditto to the superior or pectoral extremities 72 Ditto to the inferior or pelvic extremities 66 Its weight varies at different periods of life, and, according to Soemmerring, a male skeleton weighs from 150 to 200 ounces. Dr. Craigie, of Edinburgh, weighed one, five feet six inches long, and it weighed 168 ounces, or lOjlbs. avoirdupois. That of a female, according to the former anatomist, weighs from 100 to 150 ounces, and is, generally speaking, considerably smaller and more delicate than the male. The length of the osseous frame-work of an adult man is about an inch less than that of the body during life ; that is to say, the skeleton of an individual five feet eight inches in height is about five feet seven inches long, and one of six feet about five feet eleven inches long. When the arms are stretched out on an angle with the body, the width from the tip of the longest finger on one hand to the same point in the other measures, generally speaking, the entire length of the body. A skeleton is said to be natural when its bones are united by its own ligaments, and