28 'A LECTURE ON THE ARCHITECTURE Organ. 21. Wit or mirth. 22. Imitation.* Use. Effect. | Perception of the dis- 'j junction or incon- • Gives the power of punning, t gruity of ideas. J Inclination to copy. GENUS III, I HE INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES.—These are situated in the forehead, and are peculiar to man only. 2d. Individuality. • To perceive individual objects. 24. Configuration, > or form. < 10 denote shape, or configuration. 25. Size. 26. Weight. 27. Colour. 28. Locality or } To perceive space with space. \ its relations. 29. Calculation or 4 number. 30. Order. 31. Eventuality. 32. Time or dura- T tion. f S To take cognizance of magnitude, or dimen- \ sion. To estimate the gravity of bodies. S To notice the perception of tints and colours £ generally. ) Creates the propensity of travelling and emi- 5 grating to foreign climes. { To recollect the properties of numbers, and \ arithmetical calculations. To observe strictly the disposition of things. To take cognizance of events. To perceive the process of duration. ) To notice the properties of melodious, and S other sounds. Is the power of learning words. 33. Melody or tune. 34. Language. GENUS IV.—THE REFLECTIVE FACULTIES.—These are productive of the ideas of relation and reflection. They administer to the qualification and direction of the other powers, and constitute what we call, in common language, Reason. 35. Comparison. 3S. Causality. 5 Perception of the agreement and congruity l of ideas. Perception of cause and effect. THE FLUIDS. 1. THE BLOOD. The blood is a fluid, which first presents itself to our observation when the parts of living animals are divided or destroyed ; it circulates with considerable velocity through the arteries and veins.! This fluid consists of about three parts of a straw-coloured fluid denominated serum, to one of a cake-like substance called the cruor. According to the late Dr. Marcet, the serum is composed in 1000 parts of Water ... ... . 900- Albumen ..... 86-8 Muriates of potass and soda 6-6 Muco-extractive matter 4-0 Subcarbonate of soda 1-65 Sulphate of potass 0-35 Earthy phosphates 0-60 1000- * This is found in many of the lower animals, particularly the monkey genus, t The circulation of the blood was discovered by Dr. Wm. Harvey, the maternal an- cestor of the present Earl of Winchelsea, in 1620, and publicly taught in 1628. See Dew burst's Dictionary of Anatomy and Physiology.