A LECTURE ON THE ARCHITECTURE 24 3.—The Functions of Procreation and Reproduction. The Generative Ap- f The Male, or impregnating organs.Causing a Product, paratus in both< v Sexes. (^The Female, or vitive organs. J The Foetus. 4.—Arrest of the Bodily Functions.—Sleep. 5.—Extinction of the Vital and Bodily Functions.—Death. By the last tables it will be perceived that the organs are arranged according to the physiological purposes, a method adopted by the late Baron Haller and Soemerring, but it required the hand of the illustrious Biciiat to give it its full and perfect development, and which has since been adopted by Cloquet, and more or less by the eminent continental anatomists. I have, however, made a little variation in the arrangement of the functions of life ; in more accordance with the gradual formation of the parts of which the body is composed. By the above tables, you will perceive at one view an account of the materials of which man is composed. The limits of this Lecture not permitting me to enter into a more general description than I have done in the preceding pages, I shall now describe the chemical analysis of the constituent particles entering into both solids and fluids, in which it will be perceived that the Scriptures are verified, wherein we are informed “ that we are created from the dust of the earth.” A MANUAL OF ANIMAL CHEMISTRY, &c. CHEMICAL ANALYSIS OF THE SOLIDS. 1. The Bones- The human bones have been analysed by Berzelius Fourcroy and Brande. My friend the late Mr. Joshua Brookes, in his lectures on this subject,* stated them to be as follows .— Phosphate of lime ..... Gelatin ...... Carbonate of lime ..... Loss in the examination . • • 63 23 2 2 90+ The teeth have been analyzed by Professor Berzelius, of Stockholm, and the following forms the result of his analysis • MS. Notes of lectures on anatomy, physiology, and surgery, delivered by Joshua Brookes Esq. 1821-26, taken during twelve courses by H. W. Dewhurst, vol. i. p. 3. t One hundred parts of bone are reduced by calcination to sixty-three, according to Berzelius. ... t Nicholson’s Journal, vol. xvm. p. 75.