OF THE HUMAN I10DY. 11 others, according as they arc to serve more immediately either the purposes of flexibility or strength. In the back, where strength is most wanted, they are firmer than in the loins, where flexibility is necessary ; and still firmer in the neck, where the erect posture is chiefly required. Each of these bones is perforated through the middle, and so placed over and under those next to it as to form a close canal for the medullary substance. To prevent this passage from being disturbed on change of posture by the vertebrae shifting over one another, these bones are sup- plied with cartilages, which, being of an elastic and yielding nature, allow of these motions without separation of the bones themselves. I may mention a curious fact, but yet a truism, that we are taller in the morning when we rise from our bed than when we retire to it; for this reason, the weight of the body compresses the cartilages between the bones of the spine, which are restored partly by their elasticity, and partly from the superincumbent weight being removed during the horizontal position we assume when at rest. The foot of man forms a most beautiful arch, from the back part of the os calcis, or heel-bone, to the extremities of the toes ; and when the two feet are parallel to each other, as when a foot-soldier is standing under arms, then another arch is formed in a transverse direction, from the outer extremity of the foot on the one side to the same part in the opposite foot; by this means the human body is supported upon three arches (two longitudinal, and one transversely), and thereby is enabled to stand erect without artificial assistance ; thus proving his great superiority over all other created beings. On the various joints of the bones much of their different effects depend. Each is mechanical, and resolvable by human reason. There are two principal sorts of joints; viz. ball and socket, and the hinge joint; one or the other is used according to the extent of motion re- quired. At the knee (the most complicated in structure) a hinge answers the purpose of moving the leg backwards and forwards : at the hip, a ball and socket serves to co-operate with the motion of the leg, and to move the limb to the right or left in any required position. The shoulder-joint is a ball and socket; but the socket here is very shallow, with a cartilage round its margin, while the cup of the thigh-bone is very concave, and formed of more solid materials. These differences agree with the situations of each of them, and the purposes they are separately to answer ; for, as the one is a principal instrument of motion, the shallowness of the socket, and the flexibility of the cartilage, form its motion ; while in the thigh and leg, which are to support the body, firmness is likewise necessary, which has been conceived in the forma- tion of the joints connected with them. In all the joints of the body the ends of the bones are covered with cartilage, to prevent injury by the friction of hard substances. The ball, or head of the thigh-bone, is tipped, and the cup lined, with this yielding substance ; and the hip- joint is protected by it. Each joint is supplied with a fluid, denomi- nated by anatomists synovia, by butchers joint-oil, which prevents the dreadful effects of friction. Having considered the joints on which animal motions depend, we may next contemplate the mechanism by which these motions are gene- rated and supported. The muscles and their tendons are not only con- stitutionally endowed to generate and regulate motion, but also differ-