OF THE HUMAN BODY. 27 GENUS I.—THE ANIMAL PROPENSITIES, by which the human being is placed on a level with the inferior and surrounding animals. Organ. 1. Amativeness. 2. Philoprogenitive- ) ness. i Use. Effect. ( Desire for connubial enjoyment with theop- posite sex—effect, the procreation of off- l spring. Affection for offspring—love of children and \ young and helpless creatures generally. 3. Inhabitiveness. ^ ^cuteTpTaces^ PaUl* ( Creates a ,ove of country. 4 Adhesiveness.* i Attachment to parti- j Constitutes the source of friendship. ( cular persons. ) , , . „ .. \ Causes a propensity to retaliate for real or 5. Combatrveness. Boldness, courage. j supposePd injuries. Necessary for the well-being of society, and 6. Destructiveness.t The destructive energy 7. Secretiveness. Fondness for secrecy. < all who live on animal food. Produces that mysterious concealment which veils the actions of 'many persons, creates deceit and dissimulation when largely manifested. t Gives the innate disposition to acquire pro- The desire to possess. £ 1 r Fondness for contrivance ; invention. • The feeling of pride, or personal dignity. Desire of the esteem and approval of others. 8. Acquisitiveness. 9. Constructiveness. 10. Self-esteem. 11. Approbative- ] ness. j 12. Cautiousness. \ Appiehension ot dan- lprucjence ;n qie various affairs of life. i ger. J 13. Alimentative- ) ness. S Discrimination of tastes and flavours. GENUS II.—MORAL SENTIMENTS, or those faculties which give man a sense of good and evil, and generally are peculiar to him alone. 14. Benevolence. 15. Veneration. 16. Firmness. 17. Justice or con- scientiousness. 18. Hope. 19. Marvellousness, } Compassion for the friendless aud distressed. ( Reverence for the Supreme Being, and su- , periors in (general, as also ancient works V of art, religious relics, &c. Feeling of determina- } The reverse is obstinacy, violent self-will, tion, perseverance. 5 &c. ("When large it creates a fulfilment of the of ) great commandments—“ Be just one unto j another”—" Do unto others as ye would U they should do unto you,” &c. of l The reverse of this causes melancholy and The expectation moral fitness. j The expectation 20.1maginativeness,) or ideality.! J some future benefits. { despair. f Creates a disposition to believe in things and events that are supernatural and out t of the usual course of nature. A sensation of the beautiful and perfect, par- ticularly of the past and future events. It stimulates the poet, historical painter, and sculptor, &c. * Since I published my Grammar of Phrenology, in June 1834, 1 have changed the name of this organ to Amiciftveness, as more expressive of its meaning ; the Latin word amicitia signifying friendship. t 1 his has been called the organ of murder, but erroneously : there is no such organ ; it is only when the moral sentiments and intellectual faculties are smally developed, and this organ with combativeness largely manifested, that those dreadful events occur which prove latal by ending in murder. ! I have long employed the teun imughutlhencss, conceiving it a more appropriate appellation.