A LECTURE ON TilE ARCHITECTURE 20 and articulation. Its bulk is composed of numerous muscles. It is covered by the continuation of the membrane of the mouth. At the tip, edges, and upper surface of this organ there are numerous projecting processes called papillae, and in these the sense of taste resides. 5. The organ or sense of touch. The whole external surface of the body is covered with a strong elastic integument called the skin. Anato- mists divide this into two layers, of which the internal is termed the true skin, while the external is called the scarf skin : a third layer can only be demonstrated in negroes, in which the colour is said to reside : this layer is called the rete mucosum: it also exists in Europeans, but is difficult to demonstrate. The use of the skin is to afford protection and support to the organs beneath it, and to_ exercfse a function necessary for our comfort, viz. the exhalation of a gas, the exudation of the perspirable matter denominated in vulgar language sweat, and of sebaceous or fatty secretions ; while in certain parts, as the head, axilla, pubes, &c., it permits the excresenc.e of hair. There is a still further proof of the wisdom of Divine Providence, for “ As we are all doomed to die, and be no more seen,” so he has provided powers inherent in the animal frame, wonderfully mysterious and beyond all human comprehension. Besides possessing internal powers of self-preservation in each individual, yet when two of them act in concert they are endued with the means of producing other animals similar to themselves, which again are possessed of similar functions as their parents were before them ; thus being capable of mul- tiplying the species almost without end, or until the world shall cease to exist. These are powers which mock all human inventions (wonderful as they are,) or imitations, and can only be considered as a character- istic of the one and grand Creator of the mighty universe. The organs concerned in the office of reproduction are distinct and different in the two sexes, and are situated within the cavity of the pel- vis, or that'portion of the body in the space between the two hip bones; and on this"subject the poet (Pope, I believe) justly observes: “ Like leaves on trees the race of man is found, Now green in youth, now withering on the ground ; Another race the following spring supplies, They fall successive and successive rise; So generations in their course decay, So flourish these when those are past away.” Thus, my Christian friends, on taking this .superficial view of the human body, we perceive that the divine Architect has fitted us with a brain capable of reason: organs of voice for communication with our fellow-creatures; organs for our nutrition, preservation, and repro- duction. In fact we may well exclaim with the immortal Pope, that “ The proper study of mankind is Man. In his youth, the body expands in bulk, the arteries become daily fuller, laro-er, and longer ; his nerves become gradually firmer, and his func- tions more active. But this is a description of man in his prime of life, when he is neither troubled by disease nor tortured by mental afflic- tions. Let us now compare him to what he was, as Shakspeare observes, when “ An infant. Muling and puking in his nurse’s arms. ’