8 A LECTURE ON THE ARCHITECTURE from its containing the seat of sensation, the light of understanding, and the faculty of sight. In the cranium, or skull, is situated the brain, the organ of the immaterial principle. It is in the brain that the mind takes up its residence : here she holds communication with all the ma- terial things around her; from the brain she issues her commands, through the agency of the nerves, and the sensations are conveyed from all parts of the body to the brain. This organ being extremely lender and susceptible of injury, and the slightest local compression disturbing its action, it was necessary that it should be well protected from external violence. What, I will ask, could have been found more calculated for the defence of such a vital organ than the human skull ? Had we no other proof of the existence of the Divine Architect than the structure of the human cranium it would be sufficient. Could man have formed a thing so well calculated to promote the object for which it was intended ? Certainly not, with all his skill and ingenuity. The illus- trious Lord Byron, in his beautiful lines on the human skull, thus appro- priately remarks:— “ Observe this skull from out the scattered heaps, Is this a temple where a God may dwell 1— Look on its broken arch, its ruined wall— Its chambers desolate, and portals foul. Yes, this was once Ambition’s airy hall, The dome of thought, the palace of the soul ; Behold, through each lack-lustre eyeless hole. The gay recess of wisdom and of wit, And passions hot that never brook’d control. Can all saint, sage, or sophist ever writ. People this lonely tower, this tenement refit 1” The human adult skull is composed of eight bones, some of which are separated from each other by zigzag or dove-tailed lines, called sutures. It is of an arched form, thereby calculated to withstand with impunity very severe blows. The form of an arch is universally allowed, by mechanics, to be the strongest thing in nature or art. It is not known at what time it was first used in works of art; but in all probability the hint was taken from nature. Let us compare the amazing strength of our modern stone bridges: Waterloo Bridge, in London, consists of nine arches, all of granite, and each stretching 150 feet! What a degree of force will the common watch-glass and the egg-shell bear, and how weak the same substances would be without the form of an arch ! The skull will frequently bear the most surprising degree of me- chanical force applied to it without suffering any injury. It is com- posed of eight bones, united by dove-tailed lines or sutures; if it had consisted only of one solid bone,* * it could not have answered every pur- pose for the defence of the brain. The division of the cranium into so artificial when conjoined by wire, catgut, string, or in fact any substance that did not form a portion of the individual during life. Artificial skeletons are the easiest to make, and look the neatest, but a natural skeleton displays patience and science on the part of the anatomist. Young animals, on account of the imperfect state of their bones, are generally prepared as natural skeletons, and the adult ones as artificial. * In the skulls of old people, the sutures by which the bones composing the skull are connected frequently become obliterated, and their spaces filled up by a bony substance,