THE (DAINTY COOKERY).Med K10428Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/details/b2810738xAMONGST THE POTS & PANS (DAINTY COOKERY) BY Mrs. RONALD=TAYLOR. 57, WIGMORE Caution: H. J. G LAIS HER, Street, Cavendish Square, W. 1900.WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll welMOmec Call No. GCTPREFACE. In adding yet another Cookery Book to the multitude already in circulation, I have two objects, firstly, the recipes, all of which have been tested, and are the result of many years practical knowledge, are no common ones, and will, I venture to think, prove a welcome addition to those already well kuown in most households ; secondly, it has been my aim to present them to the reader in such a way that the merest novice, by carefully following the instructions given with each, may rest assured of success. The collection is not taken from any published flource, but derived from manuscripts in my posses- sion, comprising what is best in old English, Scotch, and Irish Cookery; the French recipes were collected by a celebrated French chef, at the time when the Tuillieries was the scene of all that was bright and gay, and were given to Lady C , in whose service he subsequently lived, she in turn handing them down to my grandmother.4 Some of the dishes given are, therefore, entirely original, and the other recipes have been picked up during various roamings abroad. Should the book prove to be of that assistance which is my earnest desire, it will amply compensate me for the years devoted to the subject. ALINE RONALD-TAYLOR. 1899.CONTENTS Soups Fish ... Entrees Meats Poultry and Game Meat Jellies Sauces Vegetables Pickles Confectionery and Cakes Sweets Savouries Ices Beverages PARK 9 35 55 83 99 115 119 141 155 163 177 •201 215 •221Section I. SOUPS.SOUPS. AUSTRIAN SOUP—POTAGE AUTRICHIEN. Ingredients.—Liquor in which, a piece of beef has been boiled, 4oz. of butter, |lb. calf’s liver, 2 carrots, 2 turnips, 2 onions, 1 head of celery, a little parsley, 2 tomatoes, pep- per, and salt. Chop up all the vegetables, and put them to the butter, melted in a saucepan over the fire, toss them about till they are well browned, then add the liver finely minced, the beef liquor (or common stock), and set all to simmer gently for 6 hours. When required strain through a hair sieve and then through a fine napkin, as neither the liver or vegetables are served in this soup. ASPARAGUS SOUP.—PUREE D’ASPERGES. Ingredients.—31b. of asparagus, 6 pints of white stock, 4 leeks, 2 onions, a bunch of herbs, 4oz. fresh butter, 5 tablespoonfuls of fine flour, 1^ pints of cream, the yolks of 6 eggs, 2 drops of lemon juice. Cut off the green tops from the asparagus, and put them aside, then chop up finely the white part of the leeks, onions, and herbs. Now put the asparagus stalks, leeks, onions, and herbs into a saucepan with the butter, and fry altogether for 20 minutes, add the flour, mix well together, then put in the stock. Let all simmer gently for about an hour till the vegetables are quite tender, removing from time to time carefully any scum that rises. When this is done, strain off the liquor from the vegetables, these should then be pounded, and the stock added to the pulp, and the whole rubbed through a fine sieve. Warm the puree, add the cream previously made hot, and at the very last stir in the eggs and lemon juice, add the asparagus points, which have been boiled until quite tender, and serve very hot. This soup looks very pretty coloured a very pale green with a little spinach colouring.10 CLEAR ASPARAGUS SOUP.—CONSOMME POINTS D’ASPERGES. Ingredients.—1 quart of ordinary stock, 3 pints of good dear stock, 1 quart of asparagus peas (points), 1 small lump of sugar. Boil the asparagus peas in the common stock until quite tender, strain them, add them to the good stock which should be perfectly clear and of a golden colour, put in the sugar, give one boil and serve. SOUP A LA BONNE MERE.—POTAGE A LA BONNE MERE. Ingredients.—A stewed brisket of beef, 4 a small tea- cupful each of scooped carrots and turnips, 6 button onions, and 1 head celery both cut in small pieces, 3| quarts best stock. Cut the brisket into small square pieces, put them into a stewpan, then add the vegetables and h a pint of stock, put the stewpan on to a slow stove to simmer gently for an hour, then fill up with the remainder of the stock, boil for § or f- of an hour and serve. In many cases the brisket is put in whole (uncooked) into the soup, in which case it should be tied up tightly with tape to keep its shape and served on a separate dish, with plenty of vegetables and good gravy. To make the meat tender, long and slow simmering is necessary. From 4 hours according to size. BELMONT SOUP. OLD SCOTCH RECIPE. Ingredients.—1 ^lb. of fat mutton, 7 potatoes, 2 turnips, 8 onions, 1 head of celery, a little parsley, thyme, and mar- joram, 1 pint of split peas previously well soaked, 2 carrots, 1 parsnip, 5 quarts of water, pepper, and salt. Cut up the mutton and vegetables very small, season well with pepper and salt, add the water, and put the contents to simmer very gently for 3 hours. Skim off all the scum that rises very carefully, and put aside. When quite cold remove the fat from the top, warm up, and if liked, add a little very finely minced parsley.11 BEEF TEA. SIR SPENCER WELLS’S RECIPE. Ingredients.—1 Jib- of lean beef, 1 pint of cold water, salt to taste. Mince the beef very fine, and put it with the water to boil very slowly on a hot plate or stove for ^ of an houi, Skim it and pass it through a jelly bag. The result is per- fectly clear colourless beef tea. Add salt to taste. Equally good hot or cold. BALLY SOUP.—SOUPE IRLANDAISE. OLD IRISH RECIPE. Ingredients.—2 turnips, 2 carrots, 3 small onions, 1 Spanish onion, 1 cabbage lettuce, a handful of chervil, 1 pint of boiled asparagus points, 1 pint of common stock, 1 pint rich stock, 1 lump of sugar. Slice all the vegetables fine, and put them into a stewpan with the pint of common stock on a stove, and boil till the stock is quite reduced. Now add the rich stock, asparagus points, and sugar, mix, and it is ready to serve. Note. The asparagus stalks should be kept for making asparagus soup as in preceding recipe. BEEF EXTRACT. Ingredients.—lib. lean beef, a little salt. Take the beef, which should be quite free from fat aud sinew, cut it into small pieces and put it into a wide necked bottle or stone jar without any water, cover it closely down and set in a vessel of cold water which should reach to the neck of the jar. Put it on the fire and boil slowly for one hour and a half. This quantity will make a teacuptul of liquid wine, and a tablespoonful contains as much nourish- ment as Jib. of meat. BEAU RIVAGE SOUP.—PUREE A LA BEAU RIVAGE. Ingredients.—3 onions, 3 carrots, 3 potatoes, 3 leeks, 1 bunch of herbs, 1 lettuce, Jib. of tomatoes, 2 tablespoon-12 fuls of rice flour, 3£ pints thin white stock, allow ^ pint of cream, the yolks of 4 eggs and 2oz. of butter to each quart of stock. Pepper and salt to taste. Cut up the vegetables in small pieces, and put them into a stewpan with 3oz. of butter. Add the herbs, cover the pan, and let the vegetables fry for about 15 minutes, being careful not to let them burn. Then add the rice flour and stock, and simmer till the vegetables are quite tender. Re- move the herbs, and rub the mixture through a fine hair sieve, then re-heat the soup in a bain marie, and add the cream, previously warmed, the eggs, and butter in the pro- portions given, stirring all the time and on no account allow- ing it to boil or it will curdle. Season with pepper and salt. In Italy grated Parmesan cheese is handed round with this soup, 'and makes a nice addition. BOSTON SOUP.—POTAGE AMERICAINE. Ingredients.—3 onions, 3 carrots, 4 turnips, 1 small cab- bage, 1 head of celery, 1 pint of stewed tomatoes, 1 table- spoonful of butter, 1 cup of milk thickened with corn flour, a small bunch of parsley, 3 quarts of water, pepper, and salt. Chop all the vegetables including the parsley very fine, and set them over the fire with the 3 quarts of water. Simmer very gently until the vegetables are quite tender. Then add the butter and milk. Boil for 10 minutes, stirring well, and serve very hot. BARLEY SOUP.—CREME D’ORGE. Ingredients.—| pint of pearl barley, 1 gill of cream, |lb. of fresh butter, 2 quarts of vegetable stock, 1 yolk of •egg, pepper, and salt.. Boil the barley (previously well washed) in 1 pint of vege- table stock till it is reduced to a pulp, pass it through a hair sieve, and add to it the other quart of stock, or more if required, to bring it to the consistency of cream. Put the saucepan on the fire, and when the contents boil, remove it and stir into it £lb. fresh butter, gill of cream, and yolk of egg. Send to table very hot with fried dice of bread.13 VEGETABLE STOCK.—BOUILLON DE LEGUMES. Ingredients.—3 carrots, 2 onions, 2 leeks, | a head of celery, 2 lettuce, |lb. of butter, 2 tomatoes, 2 cloves, a little mace, thyme, parsley, marjoram, and tarragon, a pinch of sugar, pepper, and salt, 2 quarts of water. Cut the carrots, onions, leeks, and celery in small pieces, and toss them in the butter for half an hour, add the lettuce shred fine, the tomatoes and seasoning, toss a little longer, add the water, and let all stew gently for 2 hours. Then, strain, it is then ready for use as required. CRESSET SOUP.—POTAGE CRECY. FRENCH RECIPE. Ingredients —4 carrots, 2 sliced onions, 1 cut lettuce and’ chervil, 2oz. of butter, 1 pint of lentils, 3 quarts of good stock, crumb of 2 French rolls, 3 tablespoonfuls of rice. Grate the carrots and put them into a stewpan with the onions, lettuce, chervil, and butter. Simmer for 5 minutes, then put the lentils which should have soaked all night, on the top, add 1 pint of the stock, simmer for \ an hour, then fill up with the remainder of the stock. Let it boil gently for 1 hour, then put in the rolls, and when well soaked rub it all through a tammy. Have ready the rice boiled in a. little stock to put in the tureen, and on this pour the soup. CLEAR SOUP CONSOMME. Ingredients.—31b. leg or shin of beef, 3 quartB of cold water, 2 heads of celery, 2 turnips, 2 carrots, 2 onions, a bunch of parsley, 3 sprigs of lemon thyme, and winter savoury, a few allspice, teaspoonful black peppercorns, half a lemon peel, wineglassful of ketchup, pepper and salt to taste. Take the beef, put it into the water over a slack fire, and add the vegetables and seasoning. Let it boil for 6 hours. When required for use, simmer gently, strain through a hair sieve, and three- times through a fine napkin so a» to be perfectly clear.14 CLEAR GAME SOUP.—CONSOMME DE GIBIER. Ingredients.—1 calf’s foot or cow heel, remains of 3 birds '(partridge, grouse, or woodcock), small piece of ham, 1 onion, 2 carrots, \ head of celery, \ bunch of parsley, 1 bay leaf, sprig of thyme, mace, 3 peppercorns, 2 cloves, salt to taste, 3 quarts of water, 2 whites of eggs, £lb. lean beef, small glass of sherry, and a teaspooinful of Liebig Company’s Extract. Put the calf’s foot or cow heel carefully cleaned into a saucepan with the remains of game, add the vegetables and seasoning. Let it simmer for 6 hours, then strain and put aside to get cold. Next day remove the fat from the top, and put on the soup with the beef and whites of eggs, whisk till it boils, simmer for a few minutes, add the sherry, strain through a napkin, when it is ready. N.B.—Egg shells should never be thrown away, as they help to clear the soup. CHICKEN SOUP.—CONSOMME DE YOLAILLE. Ingredients.—The remains of 2 roast fowls, lib. knuckle of veal, a piece of lean ham, 3 quarts of common stock, 2 cm rots, 2 onions, a head of celery, a sprig of thyme, h a bunch of parsley, 1 bay leaf, 2 cloves, 3 peppercorns, £lb. lean beef, white of egg and shell. Cut the fowls into pieces and put them in a saucepan with the veal and ham. Cover with the 3 quarts of stock, add salt to taste. Put the saucepan on the fire, and skim care- fully any scum that rises. Before it boils add the vegetables and seasoning. Then let the contents simmer gently for 4 hours. Strain the liquor twice througli a fire napkin and clarify it with the raw beef, white of egg and shell as in preceeding recipe Serve with asparagus points or green peas. (Bottled ones answer the purpose.) N.B.—All clear soups are better made the day before required, as the fat on the top can be more effectually re- movsd when cold. ECONOMICAL CHICKEN SOUP. Ingredients.—Liquor in which a fowl has been boiled, remains of fowl, any bones and trimmings at hand, 1 carrot,15 1 turnip, 1 onion, a little parsley, outside leaves of a head of celery or celery seed, 2 tablespoonfuls of rice, pepper and salt to taste. Put all the above ingredients with the exception of the rice into a saucepan with the 'jonor in which the fowl has been boiled, and let all simmer very gently by the side of the stove for 8 hours, skimming carefully from time to time. Half an hour before serving strain through a napkin, add the rice previously well washed and strained, bring slowly to the boil and it is ready. Pearl barley can be used instead of rice or a macedoine. PUREE OF CALF’S FEET A LA PRINCESSE.— PUREE A LA PRINCESSE. Ingredients.—2 calf’s feet, 1 quart of asparagus points, 1 pint of common stock, 3 pints of white stock, yolks of i eggs, 1 pint of Bechamel, seasoning of salt, and small lump of sugar. Boil the feet until they are quite tender, then take them out and put them into cold water, leave them till cold and dry them in a doth. Next boil the asparagus points in the common stock until quite tender, drain them and put them into the white stock, give it one boil and add the calves’ feet, the meat of which should be cut in small square pieces. Put the stewpan on the side of the fire, but do not let the con- tents boil. Make a liason of th.e eggs and B4chamel (see Sauces) put it into the soup and set it on the fire till it nearly comes to a boil, stirring all the time to prevent curd- ling. Add the seasoning and serve. CRAYFISH SOUP.—PUREE D’ECREVISSES AU MARECHAL. OLD RECIPE. Ingredients.—100 crayfish, lib. of butter, 12 anchovies, 5 pints good stock, crumb of 2 French rolls, a little lobster spawn, seasoning if required. Pick the fish from the shells, and put it between two plates till wanted. Put the shells in a mortar with the16 butter and anchovies, and pound all well, then put it into a stewpan with 1 quart of stock and put it on to boil for ^ an hour, then strain it and put it back into a stewpan with the remainder of the stock and the rolls. Give it a boil, then take it from the fire and rub it through a tammy with the lobster spawn. Now put in the fish, return the soup to the stewpan, and keep warm in a bain marie till wanted as the soup must not boil after the fish has been added. COMMON STOCK.—BOUILLON. Ingredients.—2 carrots, 2 onions, a bunch of parsley, 1 bay leaf, sprig of thyme, loz. marjoram, a few allspice, 2 cloves, pepper and salt to taste. Any bones of joints or poultry the larder may furnish, trimmings of meat, and the liquor in which beef, mutton, or pork has been boiled is a great improvement. Chop all the bones, place them with the vegetables, trim- mings, and seasoning into a saucepan. Cover with 3 quarts of meat or poultry liquor or water, and simmer gently for 6 hours, skimming carefully. Strain the liquor through a napkin into a basin, when cold remove the cake of fat on the top, and use as required. A little of Liebig Company's Extract is a great improvement. CELERY SOUP.—PUREE DE CELERI. Ingredients.—1 head of celery, 1 quart of common stork. 2 onions, 1 bay leaf, 1 lump sugar, 1 pint cream, a little nutmeg if liked, salt, 1 tablespoonful of flour. Cut the celery and onions into pieces, put them to the stock with the seasoning, and boil till quite tender. Pass through a sieve, then add the cream and flour, bring to boiling point, taking great care the cream does not curdle, and serve. FLEMISH SOUP. OLD RECIPE. SOUPE A LA FLAMANDE. Ingredients.—1 turnip, 1 carrot, J a head of celery, 6 green onions or 1 Spanish one, 1 lettuce, chervil, i a pint of17 asparagus points, | pint of peas, 2oz. of butter, 1 pint of common stock, 3 pints rich stock, the yolks of 6 eggs, 1 pint of cream, a large spoonful of Bechamel sauce (see Sauces), 1 small lump of sugar, salt to taste. Put all the vegetables into a stewpan, with the butter and pint of common stock, and let them stew gently for an hour, then add the rich stock, and let it simmer very gently for another hour. Beat the yolks of the eggs very well in a basin and add the cream, which has been boiled, strain through a hair sieve and add the Bechamel sauce. Take the soup off the fire, put the egg liaison to it and keep stir- ring it well. Now over the fire bring it nearly to the boil (stirring all the time or ithe eggs will curdle), season with the salt, add the sugar and it is ready. FISH STOCK.—BOUILLON DE .POISSON. Ingredients.—2 or 31b. of cheap fish, a cod’s head and trimmings (uncooked), a head pf celery, 1 root of parsley, pepper and salt to taste, a little mace, 3 quarts of water or the 'liquor in which fish has been boiled. Put the contents in a stewpan and simmer gently for 2 or 3 hours, strain the liquor and use as required. GROUSE SOUP.—PUREE DE COQ DE BRUYERE. Ingredients.—2 grouse, 2 quarts of gravy soup, J, a head of celery, a small glass of port wine, pepper and salt to taste, 1 carrot, 1 small onion, a little parsley, 2oz. butter, tablespoonful of flour. Having trussed the grouse, roast them, and when done take off all the meat from the breasts and put aside!. Strain the gravy stock into a saucepan, add to it the vegetables and simmer gently for one hour, skimming very carefully every now and again. When the fat is skimmed off as much as possible, strain off the stock into a basin. Now take the meat from the breasts and pass through a mincing machine, then beat to a smooth paste in a mortar, adding, durum the process a little stock. When perfectly smooth pass the°mix- ture through a hair sieve. Put the butter and flour into a18 saucepan, and fry on the fire till the flour is a nice golden brown, then add the stock (which should have been strained again), add the pounded meat little by little, stir all the time till the contents are well amalgamated, bring to the boil, then add the wine and seasoning, and just before serv- ing strain in (off the fire) the yolks of eggs, being very care- ful they do not curdle. Partridge and pigeon soup can be made in the same way. GRAVY SOUP-GRAND BOUILLON. Ingredients.—41b. shin of beef, 2 slices lean ham, 4 quarts cold water, seasoning of salt and pepper, 4 cloves, 4 peppercorns, a sprig of marjoram, 1 of thyme, 2 carrots, 1 turnip, 2 onions, head of celery, 1 leek, and a handful of parsley, a little butter. Chop the shin of beef into small pieces, and after brown- ing it and the ham slightly in the butter add it to the water with a pinch of salt. When boiling, skim it well, and when no more scum rises add all the other ingredients. Let the soup simmer gently for 6 hours. Take it off the fire and take off all the fat you can. Strain though a fine napkin ®r sieve. When quite cold remove any fat, boil up for 10 minutes, and serve. A little ketchup or Harvey sauce can be added if liked. GIBLET SOUP A LA TORTUE.—POTAGE DE GIBELETTES D’OIE A LA TORTUE. OLD IRISH RECIPE. Ingredients.—4 sets of giblets, 2| quarts of rich stock, Jib. of butter, 4 chopped shallots, a, bouquet of orange and- lemon thyme, sweet marjoram and basil, Jib. of lean ham, 2 chopped onions, a handful of parsley chopped and squeezed dry, 1 pint of Madeira, the juice of a Seville orange, a pinch of sugar, cayenne pepper, flour. Scald -tile giblets, bone the pinions, feet, and heads, cut the necks into 8 pieces an inch long (keep the livers for an entree) and put them on to blanch. When they have had one boil throw them into cold water and wash them as clean19 ns possible. Put them into a stewpan with 2 quarts of the rich stock, put the stewpan on the stove and boil very gently till quite tender. In another stewpan put the butter shallots, herbs, ham cut very fine, onions, parsley, and the remainder of the stock, put it on a slow stove for an hour, skimming it carefully, now strain it and add the stock the giblets were boiled in (the giblets should be served in the tureen), thicken with flour, put in the Madeira, orange juice, sugar, and cayenne pepper. Boil for a few minutes, pour into the tureen and serve. WHITE GIBLET SOUP. Ingredients.—4 sets of giblets, 1 pint of asparagus points, yolks of 4 eggs, 1 pint double cream, 1 pint Bechamel, 2 quarts of white stock. Prepare the giblets as in preceding recipe, strain the stock then add the Bechamel and cream, and serve. HARE SOUP.—PUREE DE LIEVRE. EXCELLENT SCOTCH RECIPE. Ingredients.—1 hare, water, 1 small turnip, 2 carrots, 2 onions, 3 or 4 peppercorns, pepper and salt to taste, butter and flour. Skin the hare, taking care to keep as much of the blood as possible. Cut up the hare in pieces, put them in q. little water and let them remain so all night. Next day put the hare in a pan ana cover with water, keeping back all the best parts, add thei vegetables and peppercorns and boil all well till the meat comes off the bones. Now strain- the liquor into another pan, add the blood, stirring it all the time till it boils. When this is done cut the best parts of the hare into small pieces, brown them in a stewpan with an onion and a little butter and flour, then stew till quite tender in a little of the stock, add them to the soup, season with pepper and salt, and serve. If wanted very rich add a small quantity of Liebig Company’s Extract.20 HARE SOUP.—PUREE DE LIEYRE (ENGLISH RECIPE). Ingredients.—1 hare, butter and flour, 1 sliced carrot, 1 turnip, 3 onions, a small teaspoonful of black pepper, a bunch of sweet herbs, 1 tablespoonful mushroom ketchup, 1 glass of port wine, 2 quarts of common stock. Cut the hare into pieces and put it into a jar with the vegetables, black pepper, herbs and stock, seal down the jar closely and place it in a pan of boiling water and simmer till the meat is in shreds, now strain the soup into a sauce- pan, thicken with a piece of butter rolled in flour, add the ketchup and port wine, season to taste and serve. When wauted very rich lib. of gravy beef and a slice of lean ham should be added. LAMBS’ TAILS A LA PARISIENNE.—PUREE PARI- SIENNE (FRENCH RECIPE). Ingredients.—12 lambs’ tails, 2 old fowls, 4 slices lean haul, 4 large onions, a faggot of herbs, 2 blades of mace, 1 pint asparagus peas, 1 pint of boiled cream, 4 yolks of eggs, 1 pint of Bechamel, 2 quarts of white stock, white braise. Procure the tails from the butchers ready scalded, blanch them and put them into a white braise (see Sauces),when very lender take them out and cut them in pieces 2 inches long, now put them in a small stewpan till wanted. Line the bottom of the second stewpan with the ham, fowls cut in joints, onions, herbs, mace, and 1 pint of water. Put the stewpan on the fire to draw very slowly for an hour (taking care the contents do not catch). Strain it and skim off the fat very carefully. Boil the asparagus peas in some of the stock the fowls were boiled in, and put them and the re- mainder of the stock to the lambs’ tails. Put the stewpan on the side of the stove to boil for a few minutes. Make a liaison of the eggs and cream, strain it and add the Bechamel. Take the soup from the fire, put the liaison in and keep stirring all the time, then put it on the fire until it begins to come to the boil, and be sure you keep stirring all the time it is on the fire, and it is ready to serve. All white soups should be kept warm in a bain marie, if the kitchen does not possess one put the soup pot into a stewpan of hot water and set it on the side of the stove.21 LENTIL SOUP.—PUREE DE LENTILLES. Ingredients.—1 pint of Egyptian lentils, 3 quarts of vegetable stock, 2 onions stuck with cloves, a blade of mace, a bay leaf, 1 carrot, a little parsley, 2 eggs, a pat of fresh butter, pepper and salt to taste. Wash the lentils in cold water, then put them in a sauce- pan with 3 pints of cold water, the onion, mace, and bay leaf. Let them boil until in a pvdp, adding occasionally a little more cold water. Now strain off the water and pass the lentils through a sieve, dilute with the vegetable stock ■and make the puree quite hot. Add the butter and eggs beater, up with a little water and strained, and send to table with fried dice of bread. A very little curry powder may be added and is considered by some an improvement. LOBSTER BISQUE.—BISQUE D’HOMARD. Ingredients.—1 large lobster or 2 small ones, 2oz. of butter, 3 tablespoonfuls of sifted flour, 1 pint rich stock, 1 pint cream, salt, pepper. Chop lib. of lobster meat very fine and beat it well in a mortar, melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and when quite smooth put it to the stock. When boiled up add the lobster meat, 1 tablespoonful of fresh butter, the cream, salt, pepper, and mace. Send to table very hot. LOBSTER BISQUE (ANOTHER WAY). Ingredients.—2 hen lobsters, 2oz. fresh butter, 1 head of celery, 1 carrot, small piece of mace, thyme, pepper and salt, 1 pint white wine, 1 pint rich stock, 1 quart of veioutb sauce, the juice of \ a lemon, a little cayenne. Remove all the meat from the lobsters, keeping the coral, spawn, and pith. Cut the meat in small pieces and put them in a stewpan with the butter, celery, and carrot, cut fine, also the mace, thyme, pepper, and salt. Fry over the fire for 5 minutes, then add the wine and let all boil quickly for 20 minutes, strain the lobster into a sieve and pound thoroughly in a mortar, then put it back with the pith into the stewpan, add the stock and veloute sauce (see Sauces). Rub the22 puree though a tammy, and put aside in a cool place till wanted. Ten minutes before dinner warm the bisque, stir- ring all the time to prevent curdling, season with the lemon and cayenne pepper. Add the coral or spawn, which must be pounded with a small bit of butter and passed through a hair sieve, and serve very hot. LEEK SOUP.--SOUPE AUX POIREAUX. Ingredients.—Liquor in which a sheep’s head has been boiled 3 quarts, the remains of the head, 8 leeks, a handful of oatmeal, pepper and salt to taste. Put the remains of the sheep’s head to the liquor in which it has been boiled, simmer for 1J hours, remove the remains of the head and strain, then add the leeks cut small, oatmeal and seasoning. Simmer for another hour and it is ready. N.B.—This soup is an excellent cure for colds. MUTTON BROTH.—BOUILLON DE MOUTON. Ingredients.—A neck of mutton, 4 quarts of water, 2 carrots, 1 turnip, head of celery, 2 onions, a little thyme, tear spoonful of chopped parsley, pepper and salt, 3oz. of pearl barley. Cut the mutton into neat cutlets, slice the vegetables and put them into a stewpan, then add the water. Season with pepper and salt, and carefully remove any scum that rises. When the meat and vegetables are quite tender put in the barley (previously soaked), simmer again for 4 an hour. Skim off any fat and add the parsley. Put the cutlets in a tureen and pour the broth over them. Send to table very hot. Where many vegetables are liked, some cut in strips and well boiled can be put in the tureen. MULLIGATAWNY SOUP.—POTAGE INDIENNE. Ingredients.—3 heads of celery, 2 turnips, 3 apples, 6 onions, 3 tablespoonfuls of curry powder, 3oz. of rice, 123 quart of water, 2 quarts of good veal or beef stock, chopped white of cooked chicken, veal, or rabbit, salt. Shred the vegetables and apples very small and put them into a stewpan with the curry powder, rice, and water. Let them all stew till tender, then pass them through a tammy or hair sieve. Now add the stock into the mixture, put on the stove and bring to the boil, and carefully remove any scum that may rise. When ready to serve put the chicken, rabbit, or veal, cut in dice into the soup, and, if liked, a squeeze of lemon juice. Serve very hot, with boiled rice handed round. MADRID SOUP,SOUPE ESPAGNOLE (OLD RECIPE). Ingredients.—Jib. blanched rice', 1 or 2 chickens, 4 quarts of white stock. Put the rice and chicken into a stewpan with 1 quart of stock, and let them boil very slowly on the stove, till quite tender. Skim carefully, and add the remainder of the stock. The chicken should be served in the tureen, and be done so that the meat comes easily from the bones with a apoon. MACCARONI SOUP A LTTALIENNE.—POTAGE MACCARONI (ITALIAN RECIPE). Ingredients.—lib. of maccaroni, 1 pint of boiled cream, £lb. of grated Parmesan cheese, 3 quarts of white stock. Boil the maccaroni till quite tender in some of the stock. Then take 4 of it out and put it into a second stewpan. Put some more stock into the first and boil for an hour, then rub it through a tammy and add the cream. Now put this into the first stewpan, add the cheese, make the soup hot but do not let it boil, and serve. MUTTON TEA.—BOUILLON DE MOUTON. OLD IRISH RECIPE. Ingredients.—Scrag end of a neck of mutton, water, pepper and salt.24 Cut the meat into very small thin slices, put into a stew- pan with a little water, over a slow fire or stove to draw down for \ of an hour, then add water to the proportion of “ tea ” ycu require, boil slowly for an hour, skimming continually, and add pepper and salt to taste. Veal tea can be made in the same manner cut from the knuckle. sour A LA NAPIER.—POTAGE A LA NAPIER. OLD RECIPE. Ingredients.—1 neck of mutton, 14 potatoes, 2 carrots, the yolks of 2 eggs, 1 gill of thick cream, pepper, salt, and spice as you like, 2 quarts of water. Cut off the fat from the mutton after cutting into neat cutlets, put them into a stewpan with the water, peel the potatoes, wash and scrape the carrots and add them also. Season with pepper and salt. Let all simmer gently till the mutton and vegetables are quite tender, then strain off the stock, pass the potatoes through a sieve and mix them and the stock together. Now add the eggs and stir over the fire, and on no account allow the soup to boil, finally add the cream, mix all together and serve very hot. The mutton makes an excellent stew with the addition of sliced onions and potatoes. OYSTER SOUP.—POTAGE AUX HUITRES. OLD IRISH RECIPE. Ingredients.-—6 dozen fine oysters, 4 quarts of water, 1 pint of very strong veal stock, 6 onions, 1 head of celery, 1 turnip, 2 carrots, mace and pepper, 1 pennyworth of bread, 2oz. of butter, ljoz. of flour. Put the onions, bread, mace, and pepper into the water and boil till you think them done enough to take out the substance of the bread, steam them, then add the celery, turnips, and carrots, boil all well together, and put the oysters with their liquor to this mixture. Briug to tiie boil 3 times, then stir into it the butter rolled in flour, and when quite smooth add the veal stock. If wanted very rich 4 a pint of boiling cream can be poured into the soup before serving.25 OYSTER SOUP (ANOTHER WAY). Ingredients.—2 dozen oysters, pepper, salt, and maco to taste, 1 quart of fish, stock, the yolks of 2 eggs, juice of J a lemon, 2oz. of butter, l|oz. of flour. Mix the flour and butter over the fire, and add the fish stock, when it boils add the oysters, blanched in their own liquor and bearded. Strain the liquor and mix it to the soup. Season with pepper, salt, and mace. Stir in off the fire the eggs with the strained juice of lemon. As in preced- ing recipe cream may be added. Note.—Mussels make delicious soup and can be prepared according to either of the foregoing recipes. Where cream is omitted a little light white wine should be added. OXTAIL SOUP.—POTAGE DE QUEUE DE BCEUF. Ingredients.—1 oxtail, 1 quart of water, 1 large onion, 2 carrots, 2 turnips, a bunch of sweet herbs, 2 sticks of celery, 3oz. of butter, 2oz. of flour, pepper and salt. Cut the tails in joints, wash them and put them into a stewpan with the butter, add the vegetables sliced, herbs, and fry all together for 10 minutes, now add the water or better still, common stock, stew gently for 4 or 5 hours. Now take out the pieces of oxtail, strain the soup, thicken with the flour, put back the oxtail, simmer for a few minutes and serve. A little sherry is an improvement. GREEN PEA SOUP.—PUREE DE POIS A LA FRANCAISE. LADY C.’S FRENCH CHEF. Ingredients.—A knuckle of veal, lib. lean ham, 5 onions, £ head of celery when obtainable, or some celery seed, 3 cloves, pepper and mace to taste when liked, 6 quarts of boiling water, 2 quarts of green peas, 1 pint of spinach juice, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, small piece of butter. Cut Hie knuckle of veal and ham into thin slices, lay the ham at the bottom of a stewpan, put the veal upon it with the onions sliced, celery, cloves, and seasoning, cover with26 cold water and let it stew very gently for ij an hour cover- ing the stewpan closely. Now put in the water and let it stew for 4 hours, skimming carefully. Take the peas and let them stew till tender in some of the stock, then strain and pound them in a mortar. After this strain again through a fine cloth till the pulp is rubbed through. Strain off the remaining stock, put it into a pot with the pulped peas and spinach green, stir in very smoothly the butter, and when quite amalgamated add the cream, mix well together and serve. SPINACH COLOURING. Ingredients.—lib. of fresh spinach, 1 teacupful of water, 1 teaspoonful of salt. Wash the spinach carefully and remove the stalks. Put it into an enamelled saucepan with the other ingredients, put the lid on the saucepan and boil for 15 minutes. Now press the juice out through a hair sieve, and finally strain it through muslin. Parsley can be used in the same manner. PUMPKIN SOUP.—PUREE DE POTiRON. Ingredients.—1 pumpkin, 1 pint boiling cream, 1 pint of water, £ pint of milk, 2oz. of butter, pepper and salt. Cut the pumpkin in very small pieces and put it into a saucepan with the water and boil it till it is very soft, then strain off the water, pass the pumpkin through a sieve, ilien add the milk and the butter well beaten up. Bring to the boil, stir in the flour very smoothly, add the cream and Berve with fried croutons. PRUSSIAN SOUP.—POTAGE PRUSSE. Ingredients.—21b. of beef, lib. of potatoes, 2 turnips, 2 onions, 0 quarts of water, pepper and salt. Slice the potatoes, cut the turnips and onions small, and put them with the beef into a stewpan with the 6 quarts of water. Season with pepper and salt. Let all stew for 6 hours, skimming well from time to time. W ben ready to serve strain the soup, and if necessary add more seasoning.27 PEA SOUP A LA CHARMANTE.—PUREE DE POIS A LA CHARMANTE. Ingredients.—1 pint of split peas, the bones of a sirloin or ribs of beef, 3 pints of water, J pint of cream, butter size of a walnut. Soak the peas overnight, then put them, the water, and bones, into a saucepan, and let the peas boil until in a pulp, then strain off the water and pass the peas through a sieve. Dilute with sufficient of the water in which they were boiled, make the puree quite hot, stir in the butter, finally the cream and serve with mint and fried croutons. PEARL SOUP. FRENCH RECIPE. Ingredients.—2 quarts of veal stock, 1 pint of cream, yoln of 3 eggs, the handle of a ham, an old fowl cut in joints, a scrag of mutton, pepper, salt, mace. Add the ham bone, scrag of mutton, and fowl to the stock, simmer gently till the fowl and meat are quite tender. Now strain the stock through a sieve', make it hot over the fire and just when you are going to seiwe add the eggs, cream, and seasoning, and be very careful that they do not curdle. Have ready in the tureen some very small prepared button mushrooms, which have been made hot in a little stock, pour the puree over them and serve at once. The fowl will make an excellent entree served with a good sauce, and the mutton can be used as a steiv. WHITE RICE SOUP.—POTAGE AU RIZ. Ingredients.—2 quarts of white stock, Goz. of rice, liaison of eggs (see white vermicelli soup). Boil the rice in a little stock, put half of it through a tammy keeping the other for the tureen, put what has been tammied in a stewpan with the stock, bring to the boil, add the liaison as directed for vermicelli soup and serve.28 RICH STOCK.—GRAND BOUILLON. Ingredients.—31b. shin of beef, lib. knuckle of veal, Jib. lean ham, any available poultry trimmings, teaspoonful of peppercorns, 3 onions, 1 stuck with 3 cloves, 2 turnips {to be omitted in summer), 2 carrots, a bunch of herbs, 1 head of celery, 6 quarts of cold water, Joz. of salt, 3oz. of butter. Put the butter hi a stewpan, cut the ham in thin slices removing all rusty fat, place it on the butter. Now cut the beef and veal in small squares, chop the bones well and add all to the stewpan, with the poultry trimmings and 6 quarts of water. Put on a moderate fire and bring slowly to the boil, carefully remove the scum as it rises and each time you skim the soup add a little cold water till it is perfectly clear. When this is accomplished add the vegetables and seasoning and simmer very slowly for 6 hours. In order that the soup may be perfectly clear it is best to let a little steam escape by lifting the lid of the stewpan a little. Strain through a very fine hair sieve ivhen the stock will be ready, but it is better to put it on one side to cool before using, to remove any fat. VEAL STOCK.—BOUILLON DE YEAU. Ingredients.—51b. knuckle of veal, 1 onion, 1 carrot, a few leaves of celery, a little parsnip, teaspoonful of salt, 2 quarts of water. Cut the meat in square pieces, chop the bones well to extract the gelatine, and put them and the meat in a stew- pan with the vegetables, 2 quarts of water, and the salt, let all boil gently for four hours, strain, and when cold remove the cake of fat from the top. Warm it up, strain again and use. MOCK TURTLE.—CONSOMME DE TETE DE VEAU. Ingredients.—Calf’s head, Jib. of butter, Jib. finely sliced ham, a handful of minced and dried parsley, a bouquet of orange and lemon thyme, sweet marjoram, basil, 3 onions, large tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms, J bottle of Madeira, cayenne and salt to taste, juice of 1 orange and 1 lemon, egg balls.29 Scald the head with the skin on, cut in 2, remove the trains, tie the head up in a cloth and boil for 1 hour. Now take the meat from the bones and cut in small square pieces, throw these into cold water and then put them into a stew- pan with sufficient good stock to cover the meat. Let it boii gently until it is quite tender, then take it off the fire. Into another stew-pan put the butter, ham, parsley, herbs, onions, mushrooms, cover them with 1 pint of stock and simmer them for 2 hours. Now thicken with sufficient flour as will dry up the butter, add the Madeira, let it boil for a few minutes then tammy it and put it to the calf s head, bring to the boil, skimming carefully, add the orange and lemon juice, cayenne pepper, and salt, and if liked a very little powdered spice and sugar. Put the egg balls in the tureen and serve. EGG BALLS. Ingredients.—Allow the yolk of 3 raw eggs to 8 hard ones, stock, flour, pepper and salt. Boil the 8 eggs hard, put them into cold water, shell them and put the yolks into a mortar and pound them very fine,, w-et them with the raw yolks, season with pepper and salt, dry them with flour and shape them into balls the size of a marble as they swell very much in boiling. Boil them in the stock for a few minutes. Note.—The brains should be put on one side for an entree. VICTORIA SOUP.—PUREE A LA VICTORIA. LADY C.’S FRENCH CHEF. Ingredients.—5 slices lean ham, 4 slices of veal, 2 fowls, a faggot of- thyme and parsley, 6 onions, 2 blades of mare, \ pint of water, 1 pint of boiling cream, 2oz. of sweet almonds, 3 French rolls, white stock. Take a stewpan that holds 4 quarts and line the bottom of it with the ham, on this lay the veal, add the fowls cut in joints, thyme, parsley, onions, mace, and water. Tut the pan on a slow stove to draw down for an hour, taking great care that the contents do not catch. Now fill up the stew-30 pan. with the stock and boil very gently for an hour. Take out the fowls, remove all the meat from the bones, put it into a mortar with the almonds and pound until quite fine and when fine enough pass the mixture through a tammy, then put it into a saucepan, add to it the contents of the stewpan with the crumbs of the French rolls, boil for another hour and strain the soup through a tammy into a saucepan, add the cream, bring to the boil, stirring carefully. Season with salt, cut the crust of the rolls into shilling sized pieces, put them into the tureen, pour in the soup and serve at once. WHITE VERMICELLI SOUP.—POTAGE VERMICELLE. Ingredients.—2 quarts of white stock, the yolks of 6 eggs,. 1 pint of boiled cream, 1 large spoonful of Bechamel sauce, Jib. of vermicelli, salt, a small lump of sugar. Put the eggs into a basin and beat them very well. Add the cream little by little, strain through a hair sieve then add the Bechamel, put this liaison to the white stock, place the soup pot on the fire and keep stirring all the time till it boils or the eggs will curdle. WTien boiling add the ver- micelli and seasoning, keep stirring till it has boiled another 20 minutes, or till the verndcelli is quite tender, then serve. Italian soup is made in the same way using Italian paste instead of vermicelli. VEGETABLE PUREE.—PUREE A LA MARQUISE. Ingredients.—Jib. of butter, Jib. lean ham, 12 sliced -onions, 6 heads of celery, 3 sliced turnips, 4 shred cabbage lettuces, 1 handful of picked chervil, crumb of 2 French rolls, 50 asparagus points, 5j pints of stock. Put the butter into a stewpan with the ham cut thin, the onions, celery cut in pieces, turnips, lettuce, chervil, and J pint of stock. Put the stewpan on the stove and let the contents simmer very slowly for 1J hours, add 2 quarts more stock and the rolls, let the soup boil for another hour and rub it through a tammy. Put the asparagus points into a pint of stock, boil them till tender, then add them and the stock to the puree, season, give one boil and serve.31 WHITE SOUP.—PUREE DE YEAU. Ingredients.—A good sized knuckle of veal, 1 dessert spoonful of white pepper, 2 of salt, a very small \ teaspoon of pounded mace, 1 stick of celery, small bit of lemon peel, 1 teacupful of ground rice, 2oz. of vermicelli, 1 pint of cream. Stew the veal in sufficient water (or if at hand the liquor in which a fowl has been boiled) till the meat falls from the bones, with the pepper, salt, mace, celery, and lemon peel. Put on one side and the following day take off the fat from the top, warm the stock, carefully skimming it, then strain it. Now add the thickening of rice and vermicelli which will only take a very few minutes to boil. At the very last stir in the cream which should be boiling and serve. The success of all white soups and sauces is that they should be made in scrupulously clean pans, preferably enamelled ones. WHITE STOCK.—BLOND DE YEAU. Ingredients.—61b. knuckle of veal, an old fowl or rabbit, | pint of liquor in which poultry has been boiled, 4 quarts of water, ^lb. of lean ham cut in slices, 3 carrots, 2 onions, 1 turnip, 1 head of celery, 3 cloves, a blade of mace, a tea- spoonful of salt, 3oz. of butter. Put the ham in the bottom of the stewpan, previously rubbed with the butter, cut up the veal and bones, and add them with the fowl to the contents. Moisten with the £ pint of poultry liquor or more if required. Put the lid on the stewpan, place it on the stove to boil down to a glaze, or simmer it till the gravy flows. Then add the 4 quarts of water, vegetables, and seasoning, simmer gently for 5 hours, skim, and then carefully strain through a fine hair sieve. Note.—When stronger stock is required add 2 wild rabbits and fid up with 4 quarts of poultry liquor. WALNUT SOUP.—PUREE DE NOIX. ORIGINAL RECIPE. Ingredients.—-1 lb. of fresh walnuts, 2 quarts of white stock, 1 pint boiling cream, salt.32 Shell the walnuts, throw them into boiling water for 2 or 3 minutes to remove the skins, then put them into a mortar and pound them with a little of the stock, which should be cool. Pound them till they are perfectly smooth, adding by degrees a little more stock till the whole is used and the puree is thoroughly mixed. When this is done strain the mixture through a sieve into an enamelled sauce- pan* put it on the- fire stirring all the time till quite hot, then pour in the cream, mix, season with salt, and serve directly with fried croutons. If the puree be too thick more stock must be added, it being impossible to give exact proportions as walnuts vary so much in size.Section II. FISH..35 FISH. CRAYFISH, AU PRINCE.—ECREVISSES AH PRINCE. LORD M.’S CHEF. Ingredients—100 crayfish, Jib. of butter, 12 anchovies, spawn of 1 lobster, 12 eggs, crumb of 2 fresh rolls soaked in cream, clarified butter. Boil the crayfish in slightly salted water to which add a little vinegar. When boiled pick the fish from the tails and claws and put it into a mortar with the butter, anchovies, and lobster spawn, pound all thoroughly together, then rub through a tammy. Now put the crayfish mixture into a basin and break into it 1 egg, mix well together, and in the same manner break in each egg till the whole are used. Each egg must be thoroughly mixed with the fish before another is added. Put in the rolls and beat the fish till it is quite smooth and creamy. With a paste brush butter a plain mould with the clarified butter, which should be three parts cold. Put the crayfish into the mould and place it in a stewpan of boiling water which should cover the mould half way. Put the stewpan on a slow stove, put on the lid end on it place some live embers and steam for 1 hour. Turn the fish carefully out of the mould on to a dish and serve with piquante sauce. MATELOT OF CARPE.—CARPE EN MATELOTTE. Ingredients.—1 carp, 1 pint of stock, 1 pint of red wine, 2oz. of butter, flour, a squeeze of orange juice, cayenne pepper, a pinch of sugar, 2 or 3 drops of anchovy essence, 2 dozen button onions, chopped parsley, shallots, thyme, mace. Bone the carp and prepare it in the same manner as for matelot of tench, boil the bones with the onions, herbs, stock, and wine for 2 hours, then strain the liquor and put it into a stewpan with the carp and simmer for J an hour. Put the butter in a smail stewpan, and when melted dredge in asmuch flour as will thicken the sauce, then pour the liquor the carp has been stewed in, boil it for a few minutes stirr- ing all the time, then season with the cayenne, orange juice, and anchovy, and serve very hot with mushroom sauce. CARP AU CAPUCIN — CARPE AU CAPUCIN. ITALIAN RECIPE. Ingredients.—1 carp, 1 egg, bread crumbs, '2\ oz. of but- ter, flour, \ pint of white wine, ^ pint of stock, 2 sliced, onions, 2 bay leaves, a faggot of thyme, parsley, sweet mar- joram, 2 sprigs of basil, 6 anchovies, squeeze of lemon juice, cayenne pepper, a pinch of sugar. Carefully clean the carp, stuff it with the forcemeat and sew it up. Rub it over with the egg, cover it well in bread crumbs, and over them drop l|oz. of the butter oiled. Put the fish in a deep earthen dish, with the stock, wine, onions, bay leaves, herbs, and anchovies. Put the dish in the oven, and bake for 1 hour. Put the remainder of the butter into a stewpan and when it is melted dredge in sufficient flour to dry it up. Pour in the strained liquor from the carp and. keep stirring all the time till it boils. Now add the lemon, cayenne, and sugar, dish the carp, garnish with fried parsley: and send the sauce to table in a boat. CARP A LA ROTHSCHILD.—CARPE A LA ROTHSCHILD.. Ingredients.—2 carp, a faggot of thyme, parsley, basil, chopped shallot, 2 spoonfuls of veloute sauce, 1 glass of port wine, a few drops of anchovy essence, a squeeze of lemon- juice, a pinch of sugar, cayenne pepper. Clean the carp, bone them, cut them in collops, and put them in a buttered Saute pan which should be sprinkled with the shallot, herbs and season with pepper and salt, and a little cayenne. Put the Saute pan on a slow stove for a few minutes, then turn the collops and let them do for a few minutes longer. Put them on a dish en couronue. Scrape the herbs and shallot from the Saute pan into a stewpan with the veloutb, wine, and anchovy, boil it up, add the lemon juice and sugar and pour tho sauce in the middle of the dish and serve very hot.37 €ARP A LA BIENYENU.—CARPE A LA BIENVE^U. Ingredients.—2 carp, 3oz. of butter, a little thyme, parsley, shallots, chopped mushrooms, bread crumbs, fried parsley, anchovy essence, pepper and salt. Bone the carp and put them into collops. Put the butter into a stewpan with the thyme, parsley, shallots, and mush- rooms. When the butter is melted add 2 or 3 drops of anchovy essence and seasoning. Then let the butter stand till 3 parts cold. Dip each collop of carp into this, then cover them in bread crumbs. Put them in a Saute pan with plenty of boiling clarified butter and when done serve garnished with the fried parsley. DRESSED CRAB.—ECREVISSE. Ingredients.—-1 crab, 1 tablespoonful of oil, ^ tablespoon- ful of vinegar, pepper and salt to taste, a little cayenne, 1 teaspoonful mustard. Pick out all the white meat from the shell, taking care to remove all shell. The yellow creamy part inside should be carefully freed from all skin and beard-like substance. Carefully wash and dry the shell. Mix well the oil, vinegar, pepper and salt, and dry mustard with the fish and creamy part. Put back into the shell and garnish with parsley and cut lemon. The quantity of oil and vinegar can be increased according to taste. ICED CRAB SOUFFLE.—SOUFFLE D’ECREVISSE GLACE. Ingredients—1 gill of tomato sauce, 1 gill mayonaise sauce, 2 drops of tarragon vinegar, 2 drops of carmine, ^ pint of aspic jelly, lemon juice, coraline pepper, parsley, a fine crab. Mix together tbe tomato and mayonaise sauce,, the vinegar and carmine. When thoroughly mixed, stir into this mixture the flesh of the crab, which should be shred into small pieces, and seasoned with lemon juice and pepper. Whip the aspic jelly to a stiff froth, and fill up small paper cases or dariol cups alternately with the mayonaise mixture,38 putting a finishing layer of aspic on the top. Set on ice, and before serving garnish each little case with very finely minced parsley and lobster coral. Lobster can be dressed in the same way. EELS EN MATELOTTE.—MATELLOTTE D’ANGUILLES A LA BRETAGNE. Ingredients.—Eels, \ pint of good stock, J pint of red wine, 2 dozen button onions, loz. of butter, a spoonful each of chopped parsley, shallot, and thyme, 2 or 3 drops of anchovy essence, a squeeze of lemon, a pinch of sugar, fried croutons. Cut the eels in pieces of 2 inches long, put them into a stewpan with cold water to blanch, let them come to a boil then take them off and throw them into cold water, scrape off the second skin and fat and wash them very clean, then put the eels into a stewpan with the stock, red wine, and onions peeled, and stew them gently till they are quite tender. Put the butter rolled in flour into a stewpan with the parsley, shallot, and thyme, add the liquor from the eels fund keep stirring till it boils, then tammy it, make the sauce hot, adci the anchovy essence, lemon juice, and sugar, pour it over the eels, garnish with the croutons and serve. EEL PIE.—PATE D’ANGUILLES A L’AURORE. Ingredients.—2 eels, 2 tench, a faggot of thyme and parsley, 3 blades of mace, 2 onions, 6 washed and boned anchovies, 6 large mushrooms, yolks of 6 hard boiled eggs, 1 pint of stock, puff paste. Skin the eels and cut ihem in neat pieces after boning them. Clean the tench, bone them too but do not cut them up. Put the bones of the eels and tench into a stewpan with the thyme, parsley, mace, anchovies, and stock, and let all boil very slowly over the fire for 1 hour. Now strain off the liquor, carefully skimming off any fat and put it on one side to cool. Put one tench in a pie dish, cover it wnh pieces of eel, season with pepper and salt, a little chopped parsley, and 6 mushrooms, cover all with a layer of the eggs39 which have been rubbed through a sieve. On this place the other tench and proceed in the same manner. Pour into the pie dish the fish bone liquor, cover with paste, brush it over with the yolk of a raw egg and bake in rather a quick oven for J an hour. EELS AU CAPORAL.—ANGUILLES AU CAPORAL. Ingredients.—1 carp, 1 eel, 12 large oysters, 6 anchovies, 2 dozen button onions, 4 whole onions, a bouquet of thyme, parsley, basil, and marjoram, 1 pint of good stock, 1J pints of port wine, 2oz. of butter, flour, 3 drops of essence of anchovy, squeeze of lemon juice, Jib. of mushrooms, fried croutons. Bone the carp and put the bones into a stewpan with the 4 onions, bouquet of herbs, stock, 1 pint of wine, and anchovies, put the stewpan on the fire, let the contents boil for i an hour, then strain the liquor off. Now put the carp into a stewpan with the eel (washed and blanched as for matelotte), button onions, and strained liquor, set the pan on the fire to simmer very gently for 1 hour and then take it off. Put the butter in a saucepan, melt it and dredge into it as much flour as will dry it up, then add the stock from the carp and eel, the remainder of the port wine, and keep stirring till the sauce boils. Boil for 3 minutes, rub it through a tammy and put it to the fish, give one boil up then add the oysters, previously blanched and bearded, with their liquor, strained, simmer for 4 minutes, add the anchovy essence and lemon at the last minute. Garnish with grilled mushrooms and croutons, and serve very hot. EELS SPITCHCOCKED.—FAMOUS RECIPE. Ingredients.—2 eels, Jib. of butter, 1 spoonful each of chopped shallot, thyme, sage, parsley, seasoning of black pepper and salt, yolks of 2 eggs, bread crumbs. Skin and bone the eels and wash them carefully, and cut them in neat pieces of 2 or 3 inches long. Put the butter into a stewpan with the shallot, thyme, sage, parsley, and seasoning, put it on a stove till the butter is melted then remove the pan from the fire. Now put in the yolks40 of eggs and mix thoroughly with the melted butter. Dip each piece of eel in this, roll well in bread crumbs and fry the fish in plenty of boiling fat a nice golden brown, serve very hot, garnished with fried parsley. Hand round any agreeable sauce such as tomato or piquante. VOL AU VENT OF EEL.—VOL AU VENT D’ANGUILLES. Ingredients.—1 eel, 1 pint of common stock, \ pint of Bechamel sauce, yolks of 6 hard boiled eggs, 1 dozen boiled button onions, juice of \ a lemon, 2 or 3 drops of anchovy essence. Bone the eel, flat it, cut it inch long pieces, and blanch and prepare it as for matelotte. Then put it into a stew- pan with the_ stock and set on the stove to simmer very gently for J of an hour, add the Bechamel, eggs, onions, anchovy, and lemon. When the fish is done fill a baked vol au vent with the fish, put it in the oven for a minute and serve on a napkin. STEWED EEL.—ANGUILE A LA BOURGEOISE. Ingredients.—1 large eel or 2 small ones, 2oz. of butter, Jib. of chopped flap mushrooms, 1 wineglassful of chabiis or sautern, a very little chopped onion, and a sprinkle of very finely minced parsley. Pepper and salt to taste, ioz. flour, 1 tablespoonful cream. After skinning, cleaning, and removing the back bone from the fish, cut it into neat pieces. Put these into a stewpan with loz. of butter, mush- rooms, wine, onion, parsley, and seasoning. Partially cover with a little good fish stock or common stock. Now let all come to the boil, carefully put the fish on a hot dish, thicken the gravy in which it has been stewed with the butter, flour, and cream, pour over the eel, and serve very hot garnished with sliced lemon. JELLIED HERRINGS.—HARENGS EN GELEE. Ingredients.—4 or G fresh herrings, 6 tablespoonfuls of common stock, 2 tablespoonfuls of anchovy sauce, 1 table-4 1 spoonful of vinegar, 1 finely minced shallot, a little allspice, Slid a pinch of cayenne. Wash and clean the herrings and lay them in a deep pie dish, sprinkle over them the shallot. Put the stock, anchovy, vinegar, allspice, and pepper in a saucepan over the fire, and when hot pour it over the fish, cover with a flat dish and bake for 20 minutes, put a “ pie dish collar round the dish, and when quite cold serve. DRESSED LOBSTER.—HOMARD. Ingredients.—1 lobster, 1 handful of biead crumbs, a slice of butter, 4 tablespoonfuls of cream, a little salt, mustard, and mace, a little cayenne. Pick out all the white meat from the lobster and cut in small dice. Put it in a saucepan with the above ingre- dients. Let it continue on the fire till the butter is melted Ciean the shell and put back the lobster in it, cover with bread crumbs, on which place one or two little pieces of butter. Set before the fire and when sufficiently crisped send to table very hot. DEVILLED LOBSTER.—HOMARD DIABLE. Ingredients.—1 lobster,1 teaspoonful of dry mustard,2 tea- spoonfuls of curry powder, 2 teaspoonfuls of vinegar, 1 large tablespoonful of butter, salt, a pinch of cayenne, water. Remove the meat from the lobster, chop it very fine and mix it thoroughly with the above ingredients, excepting the vinegar and butter. When this is done put it in a sauce- pan with just enough water to prevent it browning. Boil up twice then add the vinegar and butter. Let it boil once again and serve in the shell very hot. LOBSTER CUTLETS.—COTELETTES D’HOMARD. Ingredients.—1 hen lobster, 1 gill of water, loz. of flour, 3oz. of butter, 1 tablespoonful of cream, 1 teaspoonful of strained lemon juice, a teaspoonful essence of anchovy, pepper and salt, egg, and bread crumbs.42 Remove the flesh and coral from the lobster, cut the former in very small dice, and pound the latter with loz. of butter. Now mix over the fire the flour, butter, and water, when quite smooth add the cream, lemon juice, anchovy, salt and pepper, stir till thick, when put in the coral. Keep stirring very carefully and add the flesh. When all the ingredients are thoroughly mixed turn out on a plate, let it stand for 2 hours, then shape the mixture into cutlets, egg and bread crumb them, and serve * en couronne ” with fried parsley in the centre, taking care they are fried a pretty golden brown for which purpose use plenty of boiling lard. LOBSTER SOUFFLE.—SOUFFLE D’HOMARD. Ingredients.—1 lobster, 3 eggs, loz. fresh butter, salt and pepper. Found the flesh of the lobster with the butter, sait and pepper, pass through a hair sieve, then mix to this the yolks of the eggs beaten till light. Whisk the whites to a very stiff froth, add them to the mixture and bake in a souffle tin for 10 minutes. Send to table very hot and as quickly as possible. MUSSEL FRITTERS.—BEIGNETS DE MOULES. FRENCH RECIPE. Ingredients.—1 quart of mussels, 1 pint of chablis or sauterne, 2 sprays of parsley, 1 sliced onion, lemon juice,, oil, pepper and salt, butter. Put the mussels into a stewpan with the wine, parsley, onion, pepper and salt. Put the lid on the stewpan and toss the mussels till the shells are open when they will be done. Remove them at once from the fire and put them for a short time in a marinade of lemon juice and oil. Dip them in butter, fry in boiling fat, and serve with lemon and brown bread and butter. “ En couronne,” in a circle.43 OYSTER SOUFFLE'.—SOUFFLE D'HUITRES. Ingredients.—2 dozen fine oysters, 8 eggs, 4oz. of butter, 4oz. of flour, 1 pint of milk, browned bread crumbs, a little cayenne pepper . Put the flour, butter, yolks of eggs, milk, and cayenne, in a saucepan over the fire, stirring very carefully till the mixture hoils, add 2 tablespoonfuls of cold milk and the oysters cut in small dice with the liquor from them, Now whip the whites of the eggs very stiffly and add them to the mixture. Butter a souffle tin, place round it a well buttered band of white paper which should reach above the tin, pour into it the souffle, sprinkle the browned bread crumbs over the top with some small pieces of butter placed on them and 1 ake for f of an hour. Place a souffle paper round the tin, serve immediately, and very hot. OYSTER KROMESKY’S.—KROMESKY D’HUITRES. Ingredients.—1 dozen oysters, a slice of fresh butter, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 1 yolk of egg, teaspoonfui of minced parsley, juice of ^ a lemon, some fat bacon, pepper land salt. Parboil the oysters in their own liquor, remove the beards, strain the liquor, and chop up the oysters in small pieces. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, and add the oyster and liquor, the parsley, salt and pepper, Stir in, off the fire, the yolk of egg mixed with the lemon juice and when the mixture is quite cold, divide it into 12 or 6 portions. Wrap each portion tightly in a very thin slice of paiboiled bacon, dip them in butter and fry a nice golden brown in plenty of boiling lard. Drain well from fat and serve with fried parsley. VOL AU VENT OF OYSTERS.—VOL AU VENT AUX HUITRES. Ingredients.—1£ pints of oysters, £lb. of butter, flour, i pint of B4chamel sauce, squeeze of lemon juice, and cayenne. Put the oysters on to blanch, when they come to a boil44 strain them and put them into cold water, then beard them. Put the butter in a stewpan, melt it, then add sufficient flour to absorb or dry it up, pour in the oyster liquor, stir it over the fire and when it comes to a boil add the Bechamel, 6et the stewpan by the side of the fire being very careful the contents do not boil, when ready to fill the vol au vent squeeze in the lemon juice, pepper and serve on a napkin. SALMON MATELOTTE.—MATELOTTE DE SAUMON. SPANISH RECIPE. Ingredients.—Head and shoulders of a very fresh salmon,1 bottle of common claret, 6 eggs, butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, pepper and salt to taste. Slice the oidons and fry them in a stewpan with plenty of butter for 5 minutes, add the wine, pepper and salt. When all boils, put in the fish and boil gently till the salmon is cooked. Now mix on the fire the flour and 2oz. of butter and strain into it as much of the liquor as you may require sauce for, pour this on to a dish, place the salmon on it, garnish with the eggs carefully poached and trimmed (the yolks should be entirely covered by the whites) and serve very hot. White wine may be substituted for claret. CURRIED SALMON.—ESCALOPES DE SAUMON AC KARL Ingredients.—Remains of boiled salmon, a little common slock, 1 onion, 2 teaspoonfuls of curry powder (according to taste) 1 teaspoonful anchovy sauce, 1 teaspoonful strained lemon juice, cayenne and salt, bread crumbs, loz. butter, ^ piut of cream. Fry the onion in the butter, till of a pale brown, add all the ingredients except the salmon and simmer slowly till the onion is quite tender. During this process pound the salmon with a little butter in a mortar (having previously removed any skin or bone) pass through a sieve and put it to the other ingredients, stirring carefully for a little. Pour the mixture into scallop shells, cover with bread crumbs, on which place small pieces of butter, place before the tire or in the oven to brown, and serve very hot.45 SALMON A LA PRINTANNIERE.—SAUMON A LA PRINTANNIERE. Ingredients.—Salmon printanniere sauce. Boil a fine piece of fresh salmon and serve with printan- niere sauce (see Sauces). PICKLED SALMON.—SAUMON MARINE. IRISH RECIPE. Ingredients.—Salmon, salt water, |oz. ground black pepper, 3 times that amount of common salt, saltpetre the size of a walnut, 4 large cups of vinegar, 12 drops oil of cloves, \ an oz. of coarse brown sugar. Scale and clean the fish and divide it into three pieces, boil it in a common pickle of salt and water (that will bear an egg) till it cracks from the bone, let it cook and dram. Take the pepper, common salt, saltpetre pounded fine, mix altogether and rub the salmon. Let it lie in this pickle for one day. Now take the vinegar, 14 cups of water, the oil, and sugar, mix well together and cover the salmon with this, after draining it from the pickle. It will be ready to use in 14 hours, but if it is to be kept it must be turned and skimmed each day or the oil will make the fish bitter. SOLES WITH WHITE WINE.—SOLES AU VIN BLANC. Ingredients.—2 soles, white wine, common stock, 1 tablespoonful of flour, loz. of butter, a buttered paper, a little minced parsley, pepper and salt. Lay the soles on a buttered baking tin, season with pepper and salt, and pour over the fish sufficient clear stock (well skimmed) and white wine to cover entirely. Place the battered paper on the top and bake for 20 minutes. Melt the butter in a saucepan and mix with it the flour, pour to. it the liquor in which tho soles have been cooked with a little more wine and stock if necessary, stir till the sauce thickens, add the parsley, pour over the fish and serve. This, dish is very nice garnished with chopped mushrooms.46 BAKED SOLE.—SOLE AU GRATIN. Ingredients.—2 fine soles, 6 mushrooms, 2 shalots, a little parsley, Jib. browned bread crumbs, glass of white wine, Jib. of butter, pepper and salt, a little stock, 1 lemon. Mince the mushrooms, shalot, and parsley finely, take a very well buttered dish and strew half of this mixture on it. Put the soles (well skinned, cleaned and dried) on this and lay on the the remainder of mushrooms, etc., and some pepper and salt. Cover entirely with bread crumbs and pour in at the side of the dish the wine and enough stock to come up to, but not cover, the fish. If preferred more wine can be substituted for the stock. Bake for J an hour and serve in the dish itself garnished with cut lemon. SOLE WITH RAYIGOTE SAUCE.—SOLE A LA RAVIGOTE. Ingredients.—1 sole, a piece of buttered paper, pepper and salt. Lay the sole on a well buttered tin, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and cover with the buttered paper. Cook in the oven for 20 minutes, drain, and serve with a good ravigote sauce poured over it (see Sauces). SOUCHET OF SOLES.—SOUCHET DE SOLES. Ingredients.—6 small filletted soles, cold water, 6 parsley roots, a few parsley leaves, a blade of mace, 1 lemon, pepper and salt. Fillet the soles, which is done by first carefully skinning the fish, keeping your fingers wet. Begin at the tail and with a sharp knife split down the centre taking care not to cut into the flesh, and loosen the fillets from the bones, cut the fillets into neat pieces, then put all the bones and trim- mings into.a saucepan with 3 parsley roots, J the parsley leaves, mace, pepper and salt. Cover with cold water, and boil for 2 hours. Now strain the liquor, put into it the fillets of fish, and the remainder of the parsley roots and leaves. Boil for ten minutes, put the fish in a deep dish, and pour over it sufficient of the liquor to cover it, garnish with cut lemon.47 FILLETS OF SOLES A LA NORMANDE.—FILETS DE SOLES. Ingredients.—1 large sole, 12 oysters, water, lemon juice, £ of a pint of fish stock, 1 gill of cream, 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 1 onion, bunch of herbs, peppercorns, 2oz. of flour, 2oz. of fresh butter, pepper and salt, cayenne. Remove the fillets from the fish, place them in a buttered baking tin and poor over sufficient water and lemon juice to cover, add a little pepper and salt. Cover the tin with a well buttered paper, place in a moderate oven for 10 to 15 minutes. Make a fish stock from the bones and trimmings, io which add the vegetables, herbs, and peppercorns and £ of a pint of water. Let this boil for \ an hour. Scald the oysters and add their liquor and beards to the fish stock, boil ten minutes longer. Now put the flour and butter into a saucepan, fry them, being careful not to let them get dis- coloured, strain the stock into this, stir till perfectly smooth, then add the cream and a little cayenne. Dish the fillets “ en couronne,” pour the sauce over' and garnish with a ragout made as follows: The oysters, handful of button mushrooms, some truffles and picked prawns, make these hot in a bain-marie with the liquor from the tin in which the fish was cooked, pour into the centre of the dish and send to table very hot. COLD STEWED SOLES.—SOLES A LA JUIF. JEWISH RECIPE. Ingredients.—2 large soles, water, the yolks of 3 eggs, loz. of butter, a little finely minced parsley, pepper and salt, 2 lemons. Remove the fillets from the soles, trim and cut into con- venient pieces. Slice the onions, and put them into a stew- pan with the butter, pepper and salt, and sufficient water to cover, simmer and when quite tender lay the fillets on the top of the onions. When the fish is done, strain off the liquor and when quite cold strain to it the lemon juice and eggs well beaten up. Return to the stewpan and make quite hot. Arrange the onions and fish on a dish, sprinkle over the parsley, pour the sauce over all and serve quite cold.4S FILLETED SOLES WITH WHITE SAUCE.—FILETS DE SOLE SAUCE BLANCHE. Ingredients.—2 filleted soles, \ pint of cream or milk, 1 onion, blade of mace, pepper and salt, 1 tablespoonful of flour, loz. of butter, squeeze of lemon juice After skinning and washing the fillets, tie them in a knot, and boil them in a scrupulously clean stewpan with the onion, mace, pepper, salt, and cream or milk. Melt the butter in a saucepan and mix well with the flour, add some of the cream or milk m which the fish was boiled, stir till it thickens, then dish. MAYONNAISE OF SOLE. —MAYONNAISE DE SOLE Ingredients.—2 or 3 fine soles, 6 boned anchovies, 2 dozen prawns, 12 olives, tablespoonful of capers, 4 hard boiled eggs, \ pint mayonaise sauce, aspic jelly, 2 cabbage lettuce, some small lettuce, 1 lemon. After preparing the fillets boil them in salted water with the juice of the lemon, when done put them between two dishes with a weight on them. When cold cut them in neat pieces as much the same size as possible and for this it is best to use a cutter. Take a border mould and fill it with aspic jelly (see Jellies) set with picked prawns. 'When quite cold turn it out on a silver dish, and round the border arrange the fillets “ en couronne,” these should be masked with mayonaise sauce (see Sauces). In the centre of the mould pile up the lettuce which should be well dried and mixed with mayonaise sauce, ornament with hard boiled egg cut in slices, anchovies cut in strips and curled, and finely chopped capers. The base of the dish should be arranged Avith the small salad, at each corner put 3 stoned olives, encircled by an anchovy, and fill up the other spaces with rings of the hard boiled A\rliite of egg, little heaps of the yolk, finely minced and chopped aspic. This is a very pretty dish and can be made Avith salmon or many other kinds of fish. STEWED SHAD.—ALOSE. Ingredients.—1 shad, 3 onions, 2 eggs, the juice of 2 lemons, salt, pepper, mace, and ginger. A little chopped parsley.-1!) With a sharp knife, split right down the back of the fish, remove the back-bone and cut the fish in neat pieces. Peel the onions, cut in thin slices, and boil them till quite tender, then drain them from the water and put them on top of the fish which place in a stewpan with sufficient water to cover. Season with the salt, pepper, ginger, and mace. When the fish is done remove part of the liquor, say \ pint, bring this to the boil, and add to it the eggs thoroughly beaten, the lemon juice and parsley. Keep well stirred to prevent curdling and with a spoon keep pouring it over the fish, now remove the fish from the fire and take out each piece carefully, and put on a dish. Pom- a little more liquor over, and when quite cold send to table garnished with parsley, and cut lemon. STURGEON A LA WINDSOR.—ESTURGEON A LA WINDSOR. LORD M/S CHEF. Ingredients.—Sturgeon, marinade of vinegar and whit* wine, 6 shredded onions, bunch of sweet herbs, chopped celery, bacon, 1 pint of rich stock, 2oz. of butter, 2 spoonful: of veloute, cayenne pepper, anchovy essence, juice of a Seville orange, a pinch of sugar. When the sturgeon is thoroughly cleansed put it in the marinade of vinegar, wine, onions, herbs, and celery, and see that both the upper and under part of the fish are well moistened with the liquid. Let the sturgeon remain in this marinade over night, then when ready to bake cover it well in bacon, pour over it the stock and put it in a slow oveit from 1 hour according to the size. When sufficiently done take the sturgeon from the baking tin. Strain the liquor and carefully free it from all fat, then put the butter in a stewpan and when melted add as much butter as will dry it up, add the strained liquor and the velout4, boil for 3 or 4 minutes stirring all the time, then strain the sauce through a tammy into another stewpan, season with the cayenne, anchovy, orange juke and sugar. Put the sturgeon on a dish, pour the sauce over, make very hot and serve. D50 BROILED STURGEON CUTLETS.—COTELETTES D’ESTURGEON. OLD SCOTCH RECIPE. Ingredients.—Sturgeon, pepper salt. Clean, skin, and bone the sturgeon, and cut the meat in neat cutlets. Season with pepper and salt. Broil them over a very clean fire for a few minutes and serve with any agreeable sauce. DRESSED TURTLE.—TORTUE. OLD FRENCH RECIPE. Ingredients.—A turtle, 121bs. lean gravy beef, 2 bottles Madeira wine, |oz. of mace, Joz. of nutmeg, a dust of cayenne, black pepper, and salt to taste, 6 shallots, a bouquet of sweet herbs, crumb of 2 French rolls, yolks of 4 eggs. 1 pint of ketchup, forcemeat, butter. Cut the head off, tie it up by the hind fins and let it hang 2 hours. Separate the calapee (the lower shield of the turtle) from the calipash (the upper shield). Take out the entrails, split them, and when scoured perfectly dry, clean them with salt and water. Now cut off the fins close to the calapee, and cut all the meat close to the skull. Now cut the calapee and calipash into 6 or 8 pieces, lay them and the fins in boiling water for 2 minutes, then dry them for blanching as you would an ox palate. Now boil the meat for 6 minutes and let the calapee, calipash, and fins simmer till they are perfectly tender, and when half done bone the calipee and calipash. Boil the entrails till they are as tender as the skin of a calf’s head. When all this is done lay the pieces on dishes for 1 day. Then make the beef into good gravy and add to it the wine, mace, nutmeg, shallots, sweet herbs, and seasoning, bread crumbs and eggs. Cut the calapee, calapash, fins, and entrails into neat pieces (as for a ragout) lay them in a large pan. Into this pour the seasoned gravy, mix well together and pom* the prepared turtle and gravy into a large dish. Cover with veal force- meat, butter, and yolks of hard boiled egg and bake for the tune you would any other large meat dish.51 TURTLE A LA REINE.—TORTUE A LA REINE. LADY C.’S CHEF. Ingredients.—Turtle, bacon, 1 pint rick stock, 3 or 4 sliced onions, sliced lemon, turtle kerbs. Cut 2 slices from tke lean meat of tke turtle and blanch them m cold water. Cover tke bottom of a stewpan with slices of bacon and put in tke turtle. Cover with sliced lemon and bacon and add tke stock, onions, and turtle herbs (see below). Set the stewpan on tke stove and simmer for 1 hour. Now take out the turtle, put it on a disk, pour sauce h la Reine over it (see Sauces), and garnish with tufts of boiled cauliflower. TURTLE HERBS. Ingredients.—Basil, sweet marjoram, lemon thyme, common thyme, all dried, parsley. Take the herbs and four times their quantity in chopped parsley which must be perfectly dry. Rub them through a hair sieve with the hand. Keep them in a tin in a dry place and use as required. TURTLE A LA COURONNE.—TORTUE A LA COURONNE. Ingredients.—Turtle, -(lb. butter, chopped mushrooms, parsley, thyme, sweet marjoram, a little basil, bread crumbs, clarified butter, pepper and salt. Take the lean flesh of the turtle and cut it in pieces the size and thickness of a five shilling piece. Put the butter in a stewpan with the mushrooms, herbs, pepper, and salt. Put the stewpan on the stove and when the butter is melted let it get 3 parts cold. Put some clarified butter into a Saute pan. Dip each piece of turtle in this then in breadcrumbs and fry a nice golden brown. Dish them en couronne and serve mushroom sauce in the centre of the dish. FRICANDEAU OF TURTLE.—FRIGANDEAU DE TORTUE. Fricandeau of turtle is dressed the same as fricandeau of veal and should be served with sorrel sauce.52 TROUT A LA COUR.—TRUITE A LA COUR. Ingredients.—Trout, 1 pint of light French wine, \ pint of water, 1 sliced onion, 2 cloves, a bouquet garni, i.e., parsley thyme, green onion, lemon peel, and bay leaf. 2 pepper- corns, salt to taste, 1 sliced carrot. Clean the fish well, dry it, and boil with the above ingre- dients for 20 to 30 minutes according to size. Lay the trout on a hot dish and pour over it some of the liquor in which it has been boiled or the liquor can be thickened with a little butter and flour and served separately. Salmon and red mullet are equally nice cooked this way.Section III. ENTREES.ENTREES. BEEF PALATES A L’AMERICAINE.—PALAIS Dfi BCEUF. A L’AMERICAINE. Ingredients.—6 ox palates, forcemeat, eggs, white braise, common stock. Boil the palates in the stock till they are nearly done, then take them out, peel, and trim them. Brush the inside of each palate over with beaten up egg and cover with a layer of forcemeat. Roll them up and tie with string and put them into a white braise to cook for 2 hours. Take the palates out, dry them and remove the string, then glaze them. Now make a ragout as follows: Shred the trim- mings of the palates and put them into a stewpan with sufficient v41oute (see Sauces), 1 glass of sherry, a squeeze ol orange juice, 3 or 4 drops of shallot vinegar, pepper and salt to taste, a pinch of sugar. Make the ragout hot, pour it into the centre of a dish, place the palates on it and serve very hot. BEEF PALATES A LA RAVIGOTTE.—PALAIS DE BCEUF A LA RAVIGOTTE. Ingredients.—Palates, a bunch of herbs, pepper and salt, ravigotte sauce. Braise the palates until they are quite tender, then cut thorn into pieces the size of a crownpiece with a cutter. Put them into a well buttered Saute pan sprinkled with the herbs, pepper and salt. Just -make them hot, dish them “ en couronne ” and pour the ravigotte sauce (see Sauces j in the centre. Beef Palates en cotelettes are prepared in the same manner but are cut in the shape of cutlets. Servo with any agree- able sauce.5G BEEF PALATES ON HORSEBACK.—A CHEVAL. Ingredients.—2 palates, chopped parsley, thyme, mush- rooms, shallot, pepper, salt, bread crumbs, clarified butter, egg- When the palates have been braised until they are perfectly tender cut them into small rounds with a cutter. Dip each round in egg then in the herbs, pepper, salt, and bread crumbs, egg them again and proceed as before. Drop some clarified over them put them on small skewers and place the skewers on a gridiron over a very clear fire to broil a nice brown. BEEF KIDNEY A LA RAYIGOTTE.—ROGNONS DE BtEUF FARCI A LA RAYIGOTTE. Ingredients.—2 beef kidneys, forcemeat, ravigotte sauce, fried croutons. Make a pocket as it were in one of the kidneys and fill it with forcemeat. Braise it and the other kidney together for 2 hours. Now take out the plain kidney and shred it very fine. Put fit into a stewpan with some hot ravigotte sauce (see Sauces), give it one or two stirs then pour it into the centre of a dish, place the farced kidney on it and garnish with croutons. CHICKEN CREAM.—CREME DE YOLAILLE. Ingredients.—1 fowl, 1 gill of cream, yolks of I eggs, truffles, pepper and salt. After skinning pound the raw white flesh of the fowl into a pulp, pass it through a hair sieve, then put it back in the mortar and work into it the eggs and cream, with the sait and pepper. When these ingredients are thoroughly mixed, butter a plain mould, arrange a pattern of thin slices of truffle at the bottom and sides of it, pressing them on the butter with a knife. Half fill the mould with the chicken mixture57 cover with a buttered paper, put it into a saucepan with a little boiling water and steam gently for 20 minutes. Turn cut carefully and serve with truffle sauce (see Sauces). CHICKEN CROQUETTES.—CROQUETTES DE YOLAILLE. Ingredients.—The white meat of a roast fowl, Jr the quan- tity of mushrooms, truffles, and tongue, \ pint of Bechamel sauce, pepper, and salt, loz. flour, 1 egg, bread crumbs. Mince the chicken (freed from skin), mushrooms, truffles, and ham very finely. Stir the Bechamel sauce (see Sauces) on the fire till thick, then add the mixture. Spread on a dish and when quite cold shape the mixture either in the shape of balls, tiny cutlets, or pears, in this latter case stick a stalk of parsley into each to imitate the stalk of a pear. Roll lightly in flour, brush over with beaten up egg, have the bread crumbs on a plate or paper, and cover the cro- quettes with these. Fry in boiling fat for a minute or two and send to table garnished with fried parsley. CHICKEN A LA MARENGO.—POULET A LA MARENGO. Ingredients.—1 chicken or more as required, A pint ot salad oil, 2 onions, 3 tomatoes, a bunch of herbs, 2 pints prepared button mushrooms, J pint white wine, 1 pint brown sauce, clove of garlic, fried croutons, pepper and salt,, the juice of 1 lemon. Cut up the chicken in neat joints as for a fricasee, put it into a Saute pan with the oil, sliced onions and tomatoes, bunch of herbs, and pepper and salt. Let all the contents fry for 20 minutes. Drain off nearly all the oil, remove the bunch of herbs, add the mushrooms, white wine, and brown sauce (see Sauces). Simmer for b an horn*. Skim the fat carefully, add the garlic finely minced and the lemon juice, lake out the chicken, arrange on a silver dish in a pyramid keeping the best pieces for the top, boil up the sauce, pour over it and garnish with fried croutons and crayfish, or croutons and fried eggs, these latter should bo broken into boiling oil and made into the shape of a ball by turning them over and over again with a wooden spoon.58 INDIAN RECIPE. CURRY KARL Ingredients.—2 large onions, 2 cloves of garlic, 1 sour ■apple, or some lemon juice, 2 dessert spoonfuls of salad oil, Ub. of uncooked veal, a rabbit, or the same quantity of mutton, J pint of good gravy, a tablespoonful of curry powder, a little chutney, hot spices, salt, pepper and lemon juice to taste. Cut the meat in pieces, not slices, slice the onions, garlic, and apple, and fry in the oil till quite brown, then add all the other ingredients, and steam gently till quite tender. Serve with chutnee (see Pickles). CALVES’ FEET FRITTERS.—BEIGNETS DE PIED DE YEAU. Ingredients.—Calves’ feet, beaten egg, bread crumbs, pepper and salt, lard. After thoroughly cleaning the feet put them in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and let them simmer very gently for 4 hours. Remove the bone from the meat, cut in neat pieces, season with pepper and salt, divide in small portions and dip each in the egg, then in bread crumbs and fry them a golden brown in boiling lard, garnish with fried parsley and cut lemon, and serve ■with tomato or piquante sauce (see Sauces). CALVES’ FEET A LA CASTAGNA.—PIEDS DE VEAU A LA CASTAGNA (SPANISH RECIPE). Ingredients.—Calves’ feet, common stock, Spanish sauce. Bone the feet and put them into a stewpan, for 4 feet allow 6 quarts of water. Let them boil gently for 4 hours or till they are quite tender. Take them out and put them into cold water. When they are cold trim the feet neatly and put the trimmings into the stewpan in which they were boiled as they make excellent stock. Dry the feet with a doth, then put them into a stewpan with sufficient stock and a bit of glaze. Set the stewpan by the side of the stove and let the feet warm gently. Dish them and pour Spanish sauce over them (see Sauces).59 WILD DUCK A LA MAISON DOREE. FRENCH RECIPE. Ingredients.—2 wild ducks, 1 pint of rich, stock, a good l pint of port, 3 or 4 shallots, a blade of mace, juice of an orange, fried croutons, cayenne pepper. Cut the breasts from the ducks into thin neat slices. Well butter a Saute pan sprinkle it with a little chopped shallot and a glass of port wine and lay the slices of duck in it. Put the remainder of the wild duck into a stewpan with the stock, mace, shallots, and port wine, and set it on the stove to boil very slowly for 2 hours or till the liquor is half reduced. Then strain the liquor into another stew- pan, skim off the fat. Now put the Saute pan on a stove for a few minutes, turn the pieces: of duck and when sufficiently done add them to the strained liquor, squeeze in the orange juice, dish and garnish with croutons. If cayenne pepper is not added to the sauce it should be handed round, which is the safest plan. CALVES’ EARS A LTTALIENNE.—OREILLES DE VEAU A LTTALIENNE. Ingredients.—Calves’ ears, forcemeat, white braise, Italian sauce. Thoroughly clean the ears, trim them and scald them so as to free them entirely from hair inside as well as out. When this is done fill them with forcemeat, tie them up and put them into a stewpan with sufficient white braise, and let them stew gently for 1 hour or more. When done, drain the fat from them, dish them “ en couronne ” pour the Italian sauce over them (see Sauces) and pile up the centre of the dish with green peas, asparagus points or French beans. DUCK A LA CAPITOLADE.—CANARD A LA CAPITOLADE. Ingredients.—Remains of a cold roast duck, common stock, 24 button onions, squeeze of lemon juice, pepper, salt, pinch of sugar.60 Cut up the duc-k into neat pieces and put the trimmings into a stewpan with a little stock, let it boil for i an hour, skim it carefully and pom- the sauce over the cut up duck in another stewpan, give it one boil. Boil the onions in a little stock and when done add them and the stock they were boiled in to the duck, add the lemon juice, pepper, salt, and sugar. Arrange the duck neatly on a dish and serve, garnish with watercress. QUENELS OF FOWL A LTT ALIENNE.—QUENELLES- DE VOLAILLE A LTTALIENNE. Ingredients.—1 large fowl, fat ham and lean, chopped parsley, thyme, shallot, and mushrooms, yolks and whites of 2 eggs, 1 pint rich stock, white Italian sauce, pepper and salt. Scrape all the white meat off a cold roast fowl, add to it an equal quantity of fat ham and half the quantity of lean. Put it into a mortar with the herbs, 'shallot and mush- rooms. Pound all thoroughly well together, then put in the yolks of eggs, and mix them well with the fowl. Beat the whites on a plate, add them and mix thoroughly. Season with pepper and salt. Now take the mixture out of the mortar. Put the stock on a quick stove and when it boils put some of the quenel into a large spoon. Have a tea- spoon and put as much as it will hold into the stock till all the quenel is used. Take the quenels (which should be about the size of the yolk of an egg) up with a slice. Pour the sauce over them (see Sauces) and serve. FOWL A LA DUCHESS OF CONNAUGHT.—POULET A LA DUCHESSE DE CONNAUGHT. Ingredients.—1 or 2 small fowls, clarified butter, 6 mush- rooms, 3 or 4 slices of ham, common stock, white cuiiis, squeeze of lemon juice, 3 drops of shallot vinegar, 1 lump of sugar. Cut up the fowls as for a fricasee. Put some clarified butter in a Saut^pan, lay in the fowl and put it on a brisk stove to take a nice colour. Now put into a stewpan with<5i the mushrooms, ham and a bit of butter. Simmer gently over a slow stove for 1 hour. Pour the liquor from the fowl into another pan, thicken with butter and flour, add the other ingredients, disli the fowl and pom the sauce over it. PULLED FOWL. OLD RECIPE. Ingredients.—1 fowl, a slice of fresh butter, \ pint white stock, a slice of lemon, yolks of 3 eggs, ?oz. of flour, pepper and salt. Roast the fowl, and when cold cut off the legs, back, and side bones. Put them on one side. Now take the skin and fat off the white flesh and pull it into shreds. Put the butter m a stewpan and when melted add the white of the fowl, toss it well and add the stock and lemon. Let all stand together for a few minutes on the fire, then beat the yolks of eggs with a little water, stir them into the stewpan very carefully with a piece of butter rolled in flour, till the contents are of the consistency usual for a fricasee. Now pepper and salt the legs and other available bones. Broil over a clear fire and serve round the pulled fowl. This is a very deli- cious dish. CHAUDFROID OF FOWLS.—CHAUDFROID DE VOLAILLE. Ingredients.—2 fine fowls, 2 pints white stock, 2 shallots, 3 cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, \ pint of white wine, some aspic jelly, pepper and salt, yolks of 2 eggs, § a lemon. Roast the fowls, with a well buttered paper over each. "When cold remove the fillets from the breast \and cut up the remainder into neat joints, removing the ,skin from each piece, chop up the carcases and put them with the trim- mings into a saucepan with the stock, wine, and vegetables, pepper, and salt. Boil gently for 2 hours. Strain the liquor and very carefully free it from any fat. Reduce it. on the fire and if necessary add a little gelatine. Stir in off the fire the yolks of eggs beaten up with the lemon juice. When the sauce begins to get cold dip in it each piece of fowl which must be thickly masked with it, then when quite cold ar- range the pieces on a dish, keeping the best for the top,62 and garnish as fancy dictates with sliced truffle, hard boiled eggs and chopped aspic. The prettiest way of serving this dish, however, is to turn out a border mould as aspic and fill up the cavity with the fowl, arranging the base of the dish with a prettily mixed salad which in its turn can be effectively garnished. STEWED GIBLETS —GIBELETTES D OIE. OLD RECIPE. Ingredients.—1 set or more of giblets, a pint of button mushrooms, juice of J a lemon, ^ pint of white wine, 1 pint common stock, 1 tablespoonful mushroom ketchup, black pepper and salt, bunch of sweet herbs, 1 sliced onion. Scald the giblets and put them in a stewpan with all the above ingredients, excepting the wine and lemon juice, stew gently till the giblets are perfectly tender, add the wine and lemon juice. Put the giblets on a dish, then strain the gravy, boil up and pour it over the giblets, garnish with forcemeat balls. FORCEMEAT. Ingredients.—lib. lean veal, same weight of suet, 2oz. of ham or lean bacon, the yolks of 3 eggs, seasoning of sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and when liked mace and nutmeg. Shred the veal and ham, chop the suet, and beat altogether in a mortar very fine, add the seasoning. Blend thoroughly, then shape into balls, brush over with the yolks of eggs which have been well beaten, roll in bread crumbs, and fry a pretty colour in boiling fat. Minced oysters can be added, when liked. KROMESKYS.—KROMESKY DE VOLAILLE. Ingredients.—2 roast fovds, 2oz. of butter, the yolk of 1 egg, fat bacon, chopped mushrooms, or 1 oyster to each kromesky, juice of ^ a lemon, pepper and salt. Pick out all the white meat from the fowls, and pound in. a mortar with a little butter. Put it into a saucepan with the remainder oi the butter, cream, and minced mush- rooms, season with pepper and salt. (If oysters are used63 scald them in their own liquor, put them on one side and add the liquor to the mixture). Mix on the fire for a minute or two, then stir in off the fire the egg and lemon juice. Spread the mixture on a plate and when cold, divide into por- tions (placing the oyster in the centre of the mixture) roll each in very thin parboiled bacon, dip in batter and fry. BATTER. Ingredients.—4oz. of fresh butter, 6oz. of fine dry flour,, whites of 2 eggs, 1 pinch of salt, 1 pint of water. Cut the buiter into small pieces, pour on it, £ a pint of boiliug water, when dissolved add f of a pint of cold water. Mix smoothly by degrees with the flour and salt. Before using add the whites of eggs beaten to a very stiff froth, and the quicker it is used the lighter will be the batter. LAMB CUTLETS A LA VILLEROI.—COTELETTES D’AGIsEAU A LA VILLEROI. Ingredients.—Lamb cutlets according to number re- quired, \ lb. of fresh butter, 1 beaten egg, bread crumbs, pepper and salt, sauce villeroi. Trim the cutlets and toss them in a Sautepan with the butter, pepper, and salt, till they are moderately cooked (on no account let them be overdone). Remove them from the pan and lay them on a dish till quite cold with a weight over them. Trim them again very neatly and dip each one in villeroi sauce (see Sauces) and lay them on an oiled slab. When cold egg and bread crumb them twice, put them m. the frying basket and fry in boiling lard a pretty golden brown. Serve “ en couronne.” Fill up the centre high with green peas, French beans, or small tender young carrots. LAMBS’ HEARTS.—CIEURS D’AGNEAU. Ingredients.—4 or more lambs’ hearts, 2 slices lean ham,, loz. of Hour, a haudful of young carrots, 1 turnip cut in dice with a vegetable cutter, 1 onion, juice of £ a lemon, a little64 ^parsley, 1 pint of common stock, 1 gill of white wine, pepper and salt, mushrooms, croutons. After the hearts are cleaned, cut them into moderately thick slices, dredge each with flour, and lay them in an earthenware jar, with the ham, vegetables, stock, and season- ing. Let all stew very gently for 3 hours. Remove the parsley and onion, skim off any fat and add the wine and lemon juice. Place the slices of heart in the centre of a dish, pom' the gravy over and garnish alternately with fried croutons and mushrooms, both of which should be as similar in size as possible. LAMB CUTLETS IN ASPIC.—COTELETTES D’AGNEAU A LTMPERATRICE. Ingredients.-—31bs. of the best end of neck of lamb (or more according io numbers), 1 sliced onion, carrot, leek, parsnip, a few leaves of celery, ,6 peppercorns, a bunch of herbs, h a pint of rich stock, a few truffles, aspic jelly. After trimming the neck of lamb from unnecessarv fat and skin, tie it up with a string and place it in a stewpan with a little lard. Put all the vegetables and seasoning in the bottom of the. stewpan, and on these iplace the meat. Put the cover on the pan, and let the contents fry for } of an hour. Now add the stock, place a buttered paper over the meat, and cook gently for an hour. Pour the stock constantly over the meat, adding a little more now and again when that becomes reduced. Take the meat out of the pan, remove the string.put it on a dish with a moderately heavy weight over it. When quite cold cut into cutlets of a neat shape, trim off any fat and chop the bone at the end to about 3 inches long. Have ready some aspic jelly (see Jellies), pom a thin coating of this on to each cutlet When this is set, make a pretty pattern of sliced truffle, white of hard boiled egg, cooked vegetables, such as carrots and French beans, and, when this garnish is to your taste, pom* a little more aspic over to set it. The cutlets can be arranged on a border mould of aspic, the centre tilled up with cooked peas, French beans, or a macedoine seasoned with oil, vinegar, and pepper. Or a well mixed salad masked with mayonaise sauce and prettily ornament**! makes an appropriate garnish.65 LAMB CUTLETS A LA TROEADERS.—COTELETTES D’AGNEAU. Ingredients.—Neck of lamb, 3oz. of butter, same quan- tity of chopped mushrooms, a little chopped shallot, parsley, and thyme, pepper and salt, clarified butter, bread crumbs, cucumber sauce. Cut the lamb into cutlets and trim them very neatly. Put the butter into a stewpan -with the mushrooms, herbs, pepper aud salt. When the butter is melted dip each cutlet into the butter and herbs and then into bread crumbs. Put some clarified butter into a Saute pan, place the cutlets in it and do them over the fire. When one side has acquired a nice brown colour turn the cutlets. When both sides are done, pour the cucumber sauce into the centre of a dish, put the cutlets round and garnish the base of the dish with green peas. TENDONS OF LAMB A LA REINE.—TENDONS D’AGNEAU A LA REINE. Ingredients.—Breast of lamb, white braise, sauce a la Reine. Cut the lamb into 6 pieces and put them into a saucepan of cold water, put the saucepan on the fire and when it comes to a boil take out the pieces of lamb and wash them in cold water. Now put them into a stewpan with sufficient white braise and cook them very gently on a slow stove for 2 hours or till the bones are easily withdrawn. Now dish them, pour sauce a la Reine (see Sauces) over them and serve. LAMBS’ FEET A L’lNGENUE.—PIEDS D’AGNEAU A L’lNGENUE. Ingredients.—12 lambs’ feet, bacon, 2 lemons, peeled and sliced, ^ a pint of common stock, Bechamel sauce, asparagus p oints. After the feet are thoroughly cleaned put them into cold water and let them boil untd the shank bone can be easily withdrawn. Line the bottom of a stewpan with bacon, on66 this place the lambs’ feet and then the lemons, add the stock, cover with bacon and a sheet of paper. Set the stew- pan on the stove and let the contents simmer very gently for 1 horn-. Now take the feet out and lay them on a clean cloth to dry. Put the asparagus points into a stewpan with just sufficient stock to cover them, set the pan on a stove till the stock is quite reduced but be careful not to let the asparagus burn, then add as much Bechamel as you require, and make hot, but do not let the sauce boil or the colour will be spoilt. Lay the lambs’ feet round a silver dish, pour the sauce over them and finish off the centre of the dish with asparagus ragout made with the stalks (see Vege- tables) and serve. LAMB CUTLETS A LA SAISON.—COTELETTES D’AGNEAU A LA SAISON. Ingredients.—Lamb cutlets, aspic jelly, vegetables, potted chicken, truffles. Prepare the cutlets exactly as in preceding recipe, and when quite cold cover each cutlet smoothly with a coating of the potted chicken to which has been added some sliced truffles. Dip each cutlet in liquid aspic and when quite set dish “ en couronne ” with either a cherry salad piled high in the centre, peas, or French beans, well boiled and when cold toss in a good mayonaise sauce. LARKS IN CASES.—MAUVIETTES EN CA1SSES. Ingredients.—1 lark for each person, chicken livers, 2 slices of lean ham, grated bacon, truffles, \ pint good stock, lib. of fresh butter, loz. of flour, 2 carrots, 2 onions, bunch of parsley, 3 cloves, 1 bay leaf, 6 shallots, J a small tea- spoonful of powdered spices. Bone the larks, set the livers aside, put the stock on the fire with the lark bones and trimmings, and all the above vegetables (with the exception of the shallots) seasoning and ham. Bring to the boil and when reduced to strain and put aside. Now chop the chicken and larks livers in small dice with half their weight in bacon. Fry the shallots a67 nice yellow in the butter, add the liver mixture to them with a little pepper, salt, and spice. Toss altogether on the fire for 4 or 5 minutes, then when cold pound in a mortar, pass through a sieve and add the truffles sliced. Stuff each lark with a small piece of this “ farce ” and put a layer of it in the bottom of a little paper case and on this place a lark. Fill up with more “ farce ” and bake in the oven for 10 to 15 minutes. When ready to serve mix the flour and same weight of butter in a saucepan, add the gravy to this, make it hot and pour a little into each case, serve. LARKS A LA MARQUISE.—MAUVIETTES A LA MARQUISE. Ingredients.—1 lark to each person, pate de foie gras, dives, aspic jelly, Madeira or sherry. Bone the larks and fill each one with a small portion of pate de foie gras to which should be added a very little finely shredded olive. Then wrap each lark in a buttered paper and place them on a well buttered tin in the oven, moisten with the wine and cook for 10 minutes, adding more wine so as to continually baste them. Now put them aside to get cold and than mask each lark in aspic jelly and serve “ en couronne ’ the centre of the dish filled with cherry salad. LIVERS IN CASES.—FOIE DE VOLAILLE EN CAISSE. Ingredients.—Chicken livers, pepper and salt, mushroom or tomato sauce. Scald the chicken livers for a few minutes to extract the gall. Lay them on a cloth and dry them. Now mince the livers but not too finely. Well butter a pie dish, put in the livers, season with pepper and salt and place the dish in the oven for about 10 minutes. Have ready some little paper or china cases and fill them with the contents of the pie dish, moisten with the mushroom or tomato sauce. Put the cases mto the oven for a minute or two and serve. A grilled mushroom cut to the exact size and placed on the top of each little case is an improvement, and the fatter th» livers are the better.68 SOUVAROFF OF LARKS.—MAUVIETTES EX SOUYAROFFE. Ingredients.—Larks, truffles, sherry, or white wine. Bone the larks, cut in J and cover the bottom of a souvaroff jar with them, on this place a layer of sliced truffles and pro- ceed in this manner till the jar is full, moisten the con- tents with the wine. Place the lid on the jar and make it perfectly air tight by fastening it with a band of paste. Put the jar in a pan containing hot- water and cook in a moderate oven for \ ai1 hour. Serve in the jar. Be sure the larks are well moistened with the wine or they will be dry. Where expense is an object chopped mushrooms can be used in place of the truffles. Any small birds are suitable for this dish. OYSTER SALAD.—PETITS PAN1ERS D’HUITRES. Ingredients.—For an entree of 6, are required 6 white china ramakin cases, 12 oysters, 1 lettuce, a handful of mus- tard and cress, 2 or 3 slices of beetroot, 2 hard boiled eggs, salad sauce, pepper, | a lemon. Wash the lettuce and shred it very fine, beard the oysters, season witii a little pepper, and lemon juice, and place one at the bottom of each case. Mix the lettuce with the salad sauce (see Sauces) and put a layer of it over the oyster. Now put a second oyster on this, and cover again with salad. Each little case should be garnished differently, for this purpose, chop up finely and separately the yolk and white of e^a, beetroot, and mustard and cress, ornament one case with beetroot, with the yolk of egg in the centre, another with white of egg and a pinch of beetroot in the centre, a third arrange with yolk of egg, and a little tuft of mustard and cress in centre, and so on, avoiding that no two are alike. Serve in a silver entree dish garnished with mustard and cress. PLOVERS EGGS A L’ANTOINETTE.—KUP (EUFS DE PLUVIER A L’ANTOINETTE. Ingredients.—Plovers egcrs, aspic jelly, macedoine, mayonaise sauce.69 Boil the plover’s eggs quite hard (serving one to each per- son). Put a little liquid aspic jelly in the bottom of eachdariol cup, set the plovers egg in this and fill up with more aspic. Put on ice and when quite set turn out. Now place the aspic on an entree dish and in the centre pile the macedoine which has been well mixed with a rich mayonaise sauce to which \ a pint of stiffly whipped aspic jelly has been added. COLLOPS OF PHEASANTS.—ESCALOPES DE FA1SAN A LA MARQUISE. Ingredients.—Breasts of two pheasants, a large table- spoonful of chopped truffles, J a pint of sherry or white wine, marquise sauce. Cut the breasts from the pheasants into thin collops, flat them with a flatter, and lay them in a buttered Saute pan with the truffles and sherry. Put the Saute pan on the side of the stove for a few minutes, then dish the collops, pour over them Marquise sauce (see Sauces) and garnish wit! paste croutons (see Pastry). PIGS FEET AND EARS A LA ROBERT.—PIEDS DU COCHON A LA ROBERT. Ingredients.—Pigs feet and ears. Robert sauce, eggs, bread crumbs, chopped parsley, mushrooms, shallot, thyme pepper and salt, clarified butter. When the feet are thoroughly cleaned put them into a stewpan and cook them in a brown braise till they are suffi- ciently tender to remove the bones without breaking the skin , this must be done carefully; now dip the feet in beaten up egg and then in bread crumbs, which should be mixed with the herbs, mushrooms, and shallot and seasoned with pepper and salt. Dip the feet again in egg, and bread crumb them a second time. Put some clarified butter in a Saute pan, lay in it the, pigs’ feet and do them on a stove till they are a nice golden brown colour. The eara should be shredded very fine ;and cooked in Robert sauce (see Sauces). Pour the sauce into the centre of a dish with the feet round and serve very hot.70 PATTIES.—BOUCHEES ROYALE. Ingredients.—1 large spoonful of cockscombs, 1 spoonful of cocks kernels, 1 of button mushrooms, 1 of truffles, 2 large tablespoonfuls of sweetbread, a little white wine, \ a pint of allemande [sauce, 3oz. of butter, 3 teaspoonfuis of lemon juice, 1 pint thin white sauce, or chicken broth, pepper and salt. Line as many patty pans as required with good puff paste (see Pastry), cut out as many rounds of paste as there are patties to cover. Fill the patties with rice and put them with the rounds into the oven for about 10 minutes, being careful not to let them get coloured. Now take out the rice and fill each patty with a ragout made as follows: Scald and clean the cockscombs and boil them in i a pint of white sauce, whilst doing this put the cocks’ kernels into cold water in a stewpan. Stand it by the side of a slack fire to remove the blood, do not ;let the water get warm. When the kernels whiten drain them on a sieve, and put them in a small stewpan with 2oz. of butter, and 2 teaspoon- fuis of lemon juice, moisten with i a pint of white sauce, or chicken broth, and set them to simmer gently on a slow fire, for 10 minutes, when they will be done. Drain them on a napkin. Then wash and peel the mushrooms and put them in a little saucepan with loz. of butter, 1 teaspoon- ful of lemon juice, and a dust of pepper and salt. Put the lid on the saucepan, and cook them slowly for 20 minutes, shak- ing the pan frequently. When done remove from the fire. Boil the truffles in a little wine, now soak, blanch, and trim the sweetbread, and boil in water for f of an horn-. When all this is done cut the cockscombs, kernels, mush- rooms, truffles, and sweetbread, in the shape of small scol- lops, or olives. Put them all in a stewpan with the alle- mande sauce (see Sauces) toss them for a few minutes o\er the fire and fill each patty with the mixture. Place the round of paste on the top of each. Heat in the oven for a minute or two and serve. Note.—A vol au vent can be filled with a similar ragout, and the white of chicken, out in scollops is a nice addition.71 FILLETS OF PARTRIDGES.—FILETS DE PERDRIX. Ingredient?.—i partridges or more, according to the size of the entree required, 'Jib. of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of truffles, 3 tablespconfuls of mushrooms, salt. Take the breasts from the birds and cut each breast in four fillets, trim them neatly and as much to the same shape as possible. Butter a baking tin and lay the fillets in it. Season with salt. Place a buttered paper over them and put the tin in the oven till they are sufficiently done but not dry. Make the sauce with the remainder of the birds as for salmi’s (see Sauces) in which cook the truffles and mush- rooms. Drain the fillets from the butter, arrange them on a dish “ en couronne ” with a heart-shaped crouton of fried bread between each, put the truffles and mushrooms in the centre of the dish, pour the sauce round the entree and serve. CHARTREUSE OF PARTRIDGES.—CHARTREUSE DE PERDRIX. Ingredients.—Carrots, turnips, 1 large cabbage, a small quantity of ham or bacon, loz. butter, pepper, and salt, 1 brace of partridges. Cut the carrots and turnips into pieces ,the size of a counter, boil them separately, in salted water, with a pinch of sugar. When sufficiently cooked, but not overdone, turn them out on a sieve to drain quite dry. Boil the cabbage with the ham or bacon till perfectly tender, then drain and press out all the water from it. When quite dry, cut into small pieces. Roast the partridges and cut them in neat small joints. Butter a plain mould, line it with but- tered paper, placing a round of paper at the bottom. Fit in the carrots and turnips alternately till the mould is lined, pressing them lightly with the fingers as you proceed. Next arrange a layer of the cabbage all round, pressing it care- fully, and put a layer at the bottom, on this place some of the partridge, cover with more cabbage, then more parv ridge and continue thus till the mould is full. Steam the chartreuse, then tuna it out very carefully on to a dish, and pour round the base, either mushroom cspagnole or brown sauce (see Sauces).72 CHAUDFROID OF PARTRIDGES.—PERDRIX A LA REGENCE. Ingredients.—1 brace of partridges, 1 onion, a bunch of herbs, 1 dozen peppercorns, 6 cloves, loz. of bui.ter rolled in flour, 2J pints rich white stock, \ an oz. of gela- tine, aspic jelly, hard boiled eggs, salad, mayonaise sauce. Roast the birds, and when cold cut them into neat joints, and put on one side. Put the trimmings, bones, and carcases into a saucepan with the onion sliced, herbs, peppercorns, cloves, butter, flour, and seasoning of salt. Mix all these over the fire till slightly browned, then add the stock and boil gently until the quantity is much reduced. When this is done strain, and to every teacupful of liquid add | an oz. of gelatine. When cool brush each joint over thickly with this liquid. When quite set, pile a well made mayonaise salad in the centre of a dish, arrange the part- ridges round this and ornament the base of the dish with chopped aspic ornamented with white of hard boiled egg cut in stars. The yolks should be passed through a sieve and sprinkled over the salad. QUAILS A LA DUCHESS OF YORK.—CAILLES A LA DUCHESSE D’YORIv. Ingredients.—6 quails (sufficient for an entree of 12). White chaufroid sauce, foie gras farce, 2 raw yolks of eggs, 12 flap mushrooms, juice of a lemon, aspic jelly, f of a pint of white wine, pepper. Bone the quails and fill each with a portion of the foie grasi farce (see below). When this is done wrap a buttered paper round each bird, place them in a buttered tin, pour over If a pint of wine, cover with a buttered paper. Baste the birds frequently and cook in the oven for \ of an hour. Wlien the birds are quite cold cut eacli in half and mask with white chaufroid sauce (see Sauces). FOIE GRAS FARCE. Inouedients.—2 tablespoonfuls white mushroom sauce, £ a lb. of chicken or veal, 3ozs. of pate de foie gras, 2ozs. of tongue, the yolks of 2 raw eggs, pinch of pepper.73 Pound all these ingredients till quite smooth, add the eggs and rub all through a wire sieve, season with pepper and use. MUSHROOMS FOR ABOVE ENTREE. Clean the mushrooms with a piece of flannel and a little salt, peel them and cut off the stalks, and to turn them white put them in the lemon juice and water for a few minutes. "When this is done cook them for 20 minutes in the re- mainder of the wine. Drain them and when cold dip each mushroom in liquid aspic jelly. When this is quite set, dish the quails on an entree dish in a circle, with a mushroom between each, ornament the base of the dish with chopped aspic and pile up the centre with tomato salad or a nicely mixed Russian salad. RAVIOLI A LTTALIANA. ITALIAN RECIPE. Ingredients.—Pastry, 2oz. of white chicken roasted, loz. of ham, 4 anchovies, a handful of cooked spinach, Jib. of cheese, the yolks and whites of 2 raw eggs, salt and pepper, loz. of grated Parmesan cheese. Wash the anchovies and mince them finely with the chicken, ham, and spinach. Season with pepper and salt. Squeeze all moisture from the cheese, add it to the mixture with the Parmesan cheese, and pound all together, stir into this the yolks of the eggs, with the whites whipped to a froth. Divide this forcemeat into small portions and fold each in thin paste and shape like a tiny cutlet or rissole. Put them into fast boiling stock or water for five minutes and serve with a rich Italian sauce (see Sauces). Note.—In Italy a shallot finely minced is added to the forcemeat but does not find the same favour in this country. ICED SHRIMPS A LA STANLEY.—CREVETTES GLACES. Ingredients.—For this dish use a pint of pickled shrimps, prawns, or in fact any shelled fish in season, \ pint of thick tomato sauce, or Bechamel, a salt spoonful of shallots,74 cayenne pepper, a salt spoonful of dry mustard, a little dry curry powder, the amount to be used being according to taste. Rice. Put into a basin the tomato or Bechamel sauce, and mix into it thoroughly the shallots very finely minced, cayenne, mustard, and curry powder and when all is incorporated add the shelled fish also finely minced. Now set the basin on to ice and when the mixture is frozen fill some small china cases with a little cold boiled rice and on this pile the frozen mix- ture. These little cases can be served as a savoury. SWEETBREADS A LA PRINTANNIERE.—RIS DE VEAU A LA PRINTANNIERE. Ingredients.—3 heart sweetbreads, bacon, | pint of stock. Bechamel sauce, French beans. Blanch the sweetbreads. Cover the bottom of a stewpan with bacon, lay the sweetbreads on it, ,add the stock and cover them with bacon. Set the stewpan on the fire and let the contents cook very gently for \ an hour. Cut the French beans into strips and boil them in salt and water. Take out the sweetbreads, make a rim round each with the French beans and put a sprig in the middle of each, dish them en couronnei and pile up the centre of the dish with French beans a la Maitre d’Hotel. (See Vegetables). SWEETBREADS A LA METROPOLE.—RIS DE VEAU A LA METROPOLE. Ingredients.—2 calves sweetbreads, chopped parsley, shallot, truffles or mushrooms or both, pepper and salt, fried croutons. Soak the sweetbreads for 1 hour in warm water, then put them into boiling water and boil for ten minutes to make them firm. Take them out and put them into cold water for 2 or 3 minutes. Now put them into the stewpan to simmer gently till they are half done, which will take about 15 minutes. Take out the sweetbreads, cut them in neat rounds and place them in a buttered Saute pan, sprinkled with the parsley, shallot and truffles, season with pepper and salt, cook them on the stove75 for 5 minutes, shaking them about that they do not catch to the bottom of the pan. Then turn them and cook for another 5 minutes. Dish the sweetbreads “ en couronne.'' Have ready some Piquante sauce to which add the contents of the Saute pan, pom* it into the centre of the dish and serve garnished with alternate croutons and truffles. LAMBS SWEETBREADS. AU DUC DE NEMOURS. Ingredients.—12 lambs sweetbreads, 4 lambs hearts, fat bacon, \ pint of common stock, glaze, French beans. Soak and blanch the sweetbreads, lard them and prepare the lambs hearts as in recipe (see page 64). Cover the bottom of a stewpan with the bacon, lay the sweetbreads on this and add the stock. Over this put a layer of bacon and cover with paper. Simmer gently for 15 minutes or till the sweetbreads are perfectly tender, then take them out and glaze them. Dish them with a slice of heart between each and pile the centre of the dish with French beans a la Francaise ,(see Vegetables) and serve. N.B.—This is not an expensive dish for when in season lambs sweetbreads can be purchased for lOd. a lb. and some- times less. SWEETBREAD CUTLETS AUX FINES HERBES.— COTELLETTES DE RIS DE VEAU. Ingredients.—2 or 3 large sweetbreads, £lb. of butter, chopped shallot, mushrooms, parsley, pepper and salt, bread- crumbs. Prepare the sweetbreads as for a la metropole and cut them into neat pieces. Put the butter, shallot, mushrooms, parsley, pepper and salt into a stewpan, when the butter is melted let it get three parts cold then dip each piece of sweet- bread in it and the herbs, then cover in breadcrumbs. Have ready some clarified butter in a Saut4 pan, put in the sweetbreads and toss them about till they are a nice golden brown. Drain them on a clean cloth and dish them with the sauce in the centre.76 TOMATO EGGS—(EUFS AUX TOMATES. Ingredients.—6 rounds of fried bread, 6 tomatoes, 6 fresh eggs, anchovy paste. Cut the bread in rounds the size of a claret glass, fry in clean boiling fat till a nice golden brown, spread on each round a thin layer of anchovy paste, and on this place a stowed tomato which should be the same size as the crouton of bread. Now on this place an egg which has been carefully poached and cut to the exact size of the tomato. Send to table very hot. TOMATOES A LA BERGERE.—TOMATES A LA BERGERE. Ingredients.—12 tomatoes, mustard and cress, chicken or prawn salad, mayonaise sauce. Cut the tomatoes in half, remove the centre and fill with chicken or prawn salad (see Salads, pages 119—152), mask w ith mayonaise sauce (see Sauces,page 129). Have ready some little glass plates and on each arrange a small bed of mus- tard and cress, on this place the tomato and serve one to each person. TIMBALE—TIMBALE TOSCANA. ITALIAN RECIPE. Ingredients.—8oz. of ribbon maccaroni, forcemeat of fowl, pheasant, chicken or rabbit, larks, bacon, button mush- rooms, truffles, white wine. Boil the maccaroni for J of an hour, drain it and line a well buttered plain mould with it, it can either be coiled round and round the mould or cut in pieces to fit the mould. Make a second lining with the forcemeat (see page 77) and fill up with the game or poultry and larks, all being boned and filletted. Stuff each lark with a little finely chopped bacon, and an oyster added is a great improvement. Fill up the insterstices with the mushrooms, and truffles, previously sim- mered in white wine, pour in a little very good gravy, cover the top with maccaroni, simmer gently for 1 hour, turn out very carefully and serve.77 FORCEMEAT. Ingredients.—|lb. of calf’s udder, |lb. of Panada, lOoz. of fillets of chicken, a pinch of salt, pepper and nutmeg, 1 whole egg and the yolks of 2, 1 tablespoonful of Bechamel sauce. Tie up the udder with twine in the shape of a sausage, put it into a stewpan and stew gently till quite done, take it out and allow it time to cool and get firm. Then cut it into small pieces, and pound it in a mortar, next rub it through a wire sieve, with a wooden spoon. For the Panada take the crumb of 2 fresh French Id. rolls and steep in tepid milk for 15 minutes, take it out, put it into a napkin and squeeze it tightly in order to remove the milk from it. Now put the crumb into a stewpan with 2oz. of fresh butter, a pinch of salt and two large spoonfuls of well flavoured white stock. Put the stewpan on the stove, and stir with a wooden spoon to prevent the panada burning. When it assumes the appearance of paste and is quite dry, add the yolks of 3 eggs, mix well and turn it out on a plate to cool. Pound the chicken in a mortar and pass it through a wire sieve with a wooden spoon. Now pound the udder, Panada, and chicken, all together, in a mortar, and when thoroughly mixed, add the salt, pepper, and nutmeg, 1 whole egg, yolk of 2 and the Bechamel sauce (sea Sauces). Pound once more, thoroughly, this mixture, and put it into a basin and keep in a cool place till required for use. BOUDIN OF VEAL.—BOUDIN DE VEAU. Ingredients.—fib. of lean raw veal, £ a pint of water, flour, 2oz. of butter, pepper and salt, a small piece of shallot, a dust of nutmeg, £ a pint of cream, 2 eggs, truffles. Put the water into a stewpan with loz. butter, and a pinch of salt. When it boils, stir into it enough flour to make a thick paste. Put it by to get cold. Pound the veal in a mortar and add to this as much paste as there is veal, work all together in the mortar seasoning with pepper, salt, nut- meg, and shallot. When thoroughly mixed, work in the eggs, and remainder of butter, pounding all the time, add the cream, and pass through a coarse sieve. Butter some tin moulds, arrange some sliced truffles cut in stars at the78 bottom of each, half fill the moulds with the mixture, place in a stewpan half full of water and steam gently for 15 to 20 minutes. Turn out very carefully and serve with truffle sauce (see Sauces). Note.- -Chicken or rabbit cooked this way is very nice. BLANQUETTE OF VEAL'.—BLANQUETTE DE YEAU. •t Ingredients.—Slices of cold roast veal cut in rounds the size of a claret glass, J of a lb. of button mushrooms, £ a small teaspoonful of grated lemon peel, 3oz. of veal fat, pepper, salt, a dust of mace, veal stock. Put the little rounds of veal in a small saucepan with the mushrooms, lemon peel, veai fat, pepper, salt and sufficient veal stock to cover the whole. Let the contents simmer for 15 minutes and serve on an entree dish with either a piece of fried bacon, or a mushroom between each round of veal, and fill up the centre of the dish with green peas, pour round the dish a blonde sauce (see Sauces). VEAL TENDONS WITH TRUFFLES.—TENDRONS DE VEAU AUX TRUFFES. LORD MAS CHEF. Ingredients.—The gristles from one or two breasts of veal, white braise, truffles, squeeze of orange juice, a little veloute, 1 glass of white wine, a pinch of sugar, fried croutons. Cut the gristle bone from the breast of veal in thin slices. Put them in a stewpan with cold water to blanch. Place the stewpan on the stove, and when the water comes to a boil take them out and put them in a white braise and let them simmer for 4 hours. Then take the tendons out and lay them on a clean cloth to drain the fat from them. Cut some braised truffles in slices, put them in sufficient veloute (see Sauces) add the wine, orange juice, and sugar, make the sauce hot but do not let it boil, pour it into the centre of a dish arrange the tendons round it, garnish with croutons, and serve very hot.79 VEAL ROULETTES.—ROULETTES DE VEAU FARCIES. Ingredients.—Veal, forcemeat, bacon, \ pint rich stock, 2 eggs. Cut as many slices from a fillet of veal as you want roulettes, they should be about 10 inches long and i inches wide. Brush each slice over with beaten up egg (yolk and white together) and on this put a layer of forcemeat and brush that over with egg. Roll up the roulettes as close as possible and tie them tightly to keep their shape. Lay them in a stewpan lined with bacon, add the stock and cover with bacon. Let them do gently for 1 hour then take them out, remove the string and serve the roulettes round a pyramid of spinach and pour over them truffle sauce (see Sauces). VENISON CUTLETS A L’ANG-LAISE.—COLETELLES DE CHEVREUIL A L’ANGLAISE. Ingredients.—Neck of venison, \ pint of rich stock, haricot sauce. Cut the venison into cutlets, trim them neatly and put them on a well buttered Saute pan. When they are warm turn them. fake them off the Saute pan and lay them round the bottom of a stewpan, add the stock, cover the cutlets with white paper and let them simmer for 2 hours. Skim the stock they were cooked in, add to it the haricot sauce (see Sauces) pour it into the centre of a dish and put the cutlets round it “ en couronne.”■Section IV. MEATS.8.“? MEATS. FILLET OF BEEF OF L’ESPAGNOLE.—FILET DE BCEUF A L’ESPAGNOLE. Ingredients.—Fillet of beef; 4 a pint of salad oil, 5 sliced onions, 2 bay leaves, a little thyme and basil, | a pint of vinegar, 1 pint of common stock, bacon, 4 Spanish onions, Spanish sauce, glaze, cardoons. Cut the fillet out of a fine sirloin. Trim it neatly and lard it Put the fillet into a deep dish, pour over it the oil and spread over it the onions, bay leaves, thyme and parsley. Then pom* over the vinegar and let the beef lay in this marinade one night. Now take it out and put it into rather a shallow braising pan, with the marinade and stock. Cover the meat with bacon and then with white paper, and simmer very gently for 2 hours. When done strain off the liquor and free it very carefully from any fat. Now reduce the liquor to a glaze, and add as much Spanish sauce (see Sauces) to it as you will require. In the meantime boil the Spanish •onions till quite tender, then glaze them. Put them round a dish, with the fillet in the centre, the sauce over it, and garnish with fried potato chips. Serve very hot. HUNTERS’ BEEF.—BCEUF AU CHASSEUR. OLD RECIPE. Ingredients.—Round of beef, 1 nutmeg, £ of an oz. of ^allspice, loz. of cloves, 1 oz of black pepper, 2oz. of pow- dered saltpetre, 2 handfuls of salt, £lb. coarsest sugar, suet. Hang the beef for two or three days, and remove the bone. Pound all the above spices, and seasoning to the finest pow- der. Put the beef in a pan, rub all the ingredients into the meat, and turn it daily for two or three weeks. At the end ■of this time wash the meat in cold water, bind it into shape84 with, tape and put it into a pan with ^ a pint of water at the bottom. Cover the top of the meat with shred suet and the pan with a crust made of flour and water. Bake in a slow oven for six hours. When cold remove the paste and tape. Glaze the beef and serve with chopped savoury jelly (see jellies). ADMIRAL POCOCK’S BEEF.—OLD RECIPE. Ingredients.—A round of beef, 4 gallons of water, 41b^ of coarse brown sugar, 2oz. of saltpetre, 61bs. of bay salt. Boil all these ingredients till quite clear or while a scum rises. Let it lie for 24 hours, when you may put the beef into the vessel you intend to keep it in, and pour the liquor over it till it be quite covered, and in this condition it must be kept. If the meat is to be preserved a considerable time it will be necessary to boil the pickle over again, once in, two months removing all scum as it rises, and throwing in whilst boiling 2oz. of sugar and Ub. of common salt. By so doing the same pickle will keep good for 12 months. BEEFSTEAK AND OYSTERS.—BIFTECK AUX HUITRES. Ingredients.—21b. of rump steak, 2doz. large oysters, pepper and salt, juice of 4 a lemon. Have the steak cut rather thick, and with a sharp knife make an incision along nearly the whole length of it, so as it. were to make a pocket for the oysters. Beard these, season with a little pepper and lemon juice, and place them in the steak, sew up the steak, sprinkle a little salt on it, and broil it over a very clear fire for ^ of an hour to 20 minutes, re- move the string used to sew it up and send to table very hot, with potato chips round the dish. STEWED BEEF STEAK. SCOTCH FASHION. Ingredients.—Steak, 3 pints of water, 1 onion, a little mace, 3 cloves, 4 a table spoonful essence of anchovies, 1 glass of white wine, piece of butter, flour, pepper and salt. Forcemeat balls.Choose a nice piece of steak, roll it up, tie it and put to It the water, onion, sliced mace, and cloves. When it is quite tender thicken the gravy with the butter rolled in flour, add the anchovy essence, wine, and season with pepper and salt. Remove the string and serve very hot with the gravy poured over it. BALLY BEEF.—BfEUF A L’IRLANDAISE. Ingredients.—31bs. lean brisket of beef, 1 pint white haricot beans, 3 heads of celery, 3 lumps of sugar, a small half teacupful of vinegar, pepper and salt. Soak the beans overnight in cold water, next day drain off the water and put them in a stewpan with the beef and celery cut in small pieces. Let all stew gently till the meat is very tender and the beans quite soft, then add the sugar and vinegar, stew for a few minutes longer and serve. BEEF A LA MODE.—BCEUF A LA MODE. Ingredients.—i lbs of round of beef or rolled ribs, a sliced onion, 1 teaspoonful of allspice, 1 bay leaf, 1 teacupful of vinegar, water. Put the beef in a saucepan with the onion, allspice, bay leaf, vinegar, pepper and salt, and sufficient water to cover it. Let it stew gently for 3 or 4 hours, according to the weight of the meat. Remove the bay leaf before sending to table and when liked a little port wine can be added. BEEFSTEAK CHATEAUBRIAND.—CHATEAUBRIAND. Ingredients.—21bs. fillet of beef, 2 slices neck of beef, pepper, salt, and salad oil. Cut the steak a little over two inches thick, trim it, and season with pepper, salt, and salad oil. Take the shoes of beef out thin and place the steak between them and broil over a clear fire for \ of an hour to 20 minutes. Put it on a very hot dish and pour over it a Chateaubriand sauce (see Sauces), and garnish .vith nicely fried potatoes.S(j SPICED BEEF.—BCEUF EPICE. Ingredients.—81bs. thin flank of beef, I41bs. common salt, 2oz. of bay salt, 2.oz. of saltpetre, lib. coarse sugar, 4 an oz. ground cloves, | an oz of powdered mace, \ an oz. of black pepper, 4 an oz. of ground allspice, 4 an oz. of thyme, 1 ground nutmeg, 3oz. of dripping, 2 carrots, 2 onions, 1 turnip, a few leaves of celery, sufficient good stock to cook the beef in. Remove the skin and bones from the beef, pound all the spices together, and pass them through a fine wire sieve. Rub the meat well with this pickle for a quarter of an hour every day for a fortnight, turning the meat every day. When required for use soak the beef for a short time, roll it up into a neat shape and tie it up in a buttered cloth very tight with tape. Slice the vegetables, place them in fhe bottom of a stewpan, put the meat on them, fill up with the stock and stew very gently for 5 or 6 hours till quite tender. Then press it well till quite cold, remove the cloth, brush the beef well over with liquid glaze and send to cable garnished with aspic jelly. BOAR’S HEAD.—TETE DE SANGRIER. Ingredients.—The head of a bacon hog, 41bs. of common salt, 4oz. of saltpetre, | a lb. moist sugar, 4 an oz. of cloves, 4 an oz of mace, 4 an oz. of juniper berries, and a handful of thyme, marjoram, and basil, 41bs. of forcemeat, 4 a bottle of truffles, £lb. of Pistachio nuts. Sufficient good stock to cover the head. Any trimmings of meat and game, 2 calves’ feet, pepper and salt, 2 carrots, 2 onions, a handful of parsley, a few leaves of celery or celery seed. Cut the head deep into the shoulders, and bone it care- fullv, beginning at the throat. Remove the tongue and rub it and the head well with the above pickle. When this is done, turn it over each day in the brine for a fortnight, and keep in a cool place. When the head is ready for dressing take it out of the brine, wash it thoroughly in cold water, then drain and dry it with a cloth. Trim off any uneven pieces from the cheeks, cut them into long narrow fillets, as also the tongue, slice the truffles, and blanch the pistacaio nuts.. Now proceed to line the inside of the head with alayer of forcemeat (see below) about an inch, thick, on this lay the fillets of tongue, cheek, truffles, and here and there the pistachio nuts. Cover these with another layer of forcemeat and proceed as before till the head is sufficiently garnished. Season with pepper and salt, and if liked a dust of nutmeg. Now wrap the head up in a strong cloth pre- viously well buttered, and sew it well up to preserve its shape. Put it into a braizing pan with the vegetables sliced, meat and game trimmings, calf’s feet and cover with stock Set the braising pan on the fire and simmer gently for 5 hours. As soon as it boils skim thoroughly. Take out the head and carefully tighten the cloth to preserve its shape Put it back into its braise and let it remain till cool. Now put it into a deep braising dish in the oven for a few minutes. Take it out, carefully remove the cloth and glaze the head over with dark coloured glaze. It can be orna- mented with Italian paste or lard piped on, and should be sent to table garnished with aspic jelly. FORCEMEAT FOR ABOVE. Ingredients.—lib. of veal, lib. of fat bacon 4 chopped mushrooms, ^ a teaspoonful chopped parsley, pepper and salt and the yolks of 3 eggs. Chop these ingredients very fine. Pound well in a mortar with the eggs, work all thoroughly together and the force- meat will be ready for use. GLAZE. Ingredients.—Rich stock, omitting celery and turnips. Put the stock into a stewpan over the fire and let it boil till it somewhat stiffens, then keep stirring carefully to pre- vent it burning. When it is sufficiently reduced and comes to a glaze turn it into a glaze pot and proceed to glaze the boars head with it. Where dark glaze is required more beef aDd less veal should be used and vice versa.88 CALVES’ HEAD A L’IRLANDAISE.—TETE DE VEAU A L’IRLANDAISE. IRISH RECIPE. Ingredients.—A calf’s head, rich stock, bread crumbs, sweet herbs, pepper, salt, bread crumbs, clarified butter, calves’ head sauce, forcemeat balls, squeeze of orange juice, cayenne pepper. Skin a calf’s head and boil it till the bones will part from the meat. Cut one side of the head in square pieces and the tongue and palate the same. Wash them in several waters and put them into a stewpan. Score the other side of the head, put it into the stewpan with sufficient stock to boil till tender, the scored side of the head should not be boiled as long as the cut pieces and these should not be allowed to come to shreds. When sufficiently done put the half head on a Saute pan and pour a little oiled butter over it. Sprinkle it with the herbs, pepper and salt, and shake over it some breadcrumbs, on these drop some clarified but- ter. Put the Saute pan in the oven for a few minutes and then put the half head on a gridiron to colour it. When this is done put it in the centre of a dish, place the hash round it, over which pour calves’ head sauce (see Sauces) garnish with the forcemeat balls and serve. YORK HAM A L’OSBORNE.—JAMBON D’YORK A L’OSBORNE. Ingredients.—1 ham, brown braise, 1 pint of Madeira, glaze, spinach. Put the ham to soak the day before it is required in warm water. Boil it in cold water and let it boil for about 20 minutea. Now take it out, remove the rind and trim the ham. Next put it into a brown braise (see Sauces) to which add the Madeira. Cover the braising pan closely, and put it on a slow stove to boil very gently for i hours, more or less, according to the size of the ham. When done trim and glaze it and serve with spinach.89 ham cake, a nice supper or breakfast disr Ingredients.—The remains of a ham both lean and fat, pepper, fine spice and cayenne, Ub. clarified butter. Cut the ham in pieces' and put them into a mortar with the pepper and spice. Pound it thoroughly till it is smooth and fine. Then add the butter and mix well together. Put the mixture into a mould and place the mould into the oven for about \ an hour. When it is done put the mould into a cool place. Next day place the mould into warm water for a few minutes, then turn out the cake and garnish with chopped aspic. "V eal cake is prepared in the same manner and is cut from the remains of a cold fillet. LAMB’S HEAD A L’ALKMAR.—TETE D’AGNEAU A L’ALKMAR. Ingredients.—Lamb’s head, liver and heart, a bunch of fines herbs, eggs, breadcrumbs, pepper and salt. Saw the head in two and boil it till it is quite tender, then remove all the bones from it. Make a mixture of the herbs, breadcrumbs, pepper and salt. Brush the lamb’s head well over with egg and cover it with the mixed bread- crumbs, repeat this a second time. Now peel the tongue and egg and breadcrumb it three times. When this is done pour oiled butter over it and the head, and put them into the oven till the crumbs are browned. Cut the liver and heart in slices and the same proportion of fat and lean bacon. Fry the bacon, then put it on a sieve to drain. Next fry the heart and liver, the latter will take a very little frying. Put the bacon, liver and heart round a dish, pour over them a little poivrade sauce (see Sauces). Place the split head in the centre with the tongue in the middle and serve very hot. SHOULDER OF LAMB A LA ST. JAMES’S.—AGNEAU FARCIE A LA SAINT JAMES. Ingredients. —Shoulder of lamb, forcemeat, 3 omens, head of celery, 2 carrots, faggots of herbs, l pinis oimmm. stock, lardoons, glaze, sorrel sauce, fat bacon.90 Take the blade bone out and fill the cavity with force- meat, sew it up with twine, then lard the lamb. Put any trimmings of meat the larder may furnish into a stewpan with the vegetables, and herbs. Put the lamb upon these, cover with bacon, add the stock and stew very gently for 2 hours, with some lighted charcoal on the lid of . the pan. When done take out the lamb, and put it in the oven for a few minutes, then glaze it and serve with sorrel sauce. BROILED BLADE BONE OF LAMB. OLD ESSEX RECIPE. Ingredients.—The blade bone from a shoulder of lamb, eullis, oiled butter, two tablespoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, 3 drops of shallot vinegar, pepper and salt. Score the blade bone, pepper and salt it, place it in a pie dish and put some oiled butter over it. Put it into the oven to warm through. Cut some neat collops from the other part of the lamb, flat them and put them into a stew- pan with a little eullis which has been made hot. Add the ketchup and vinegar and make all hot by the side of the stove, but do not let it boil. Take out the blade bone from the oven, put it on a gridiron to brown them, put it on a dish, serve the collops round it and serve with devilled tomato sauce, which is simply tomato sauce made rather thick and seasoned with cayenne pepper. BREAST OF LAMB. DEVONSHIRE FASHION. OLD RECIPE. Ingredients.—Breast of lamb, bacon, 1 lemon, 4 onions, a faggot of thyme and parsley, 1 pint of common stock, spinach, carrots. Cut the chine bone from a breast of lamb, skin it and put it in cold water to blanch. Bring the water to the boil, take out the lamb and put it into cold watew Cover the bottom of a stewpan with bacon put in the lamb, cover it with thinly sliced lemon and cover again with bacon. Add the onions, herbs, and stock, and set the stewpan on a slowill fire to simmer very gently till the bones will draw out. Then take it out, glaze it, put it on a dish, garnish with spinach, finish the spinach off with a circle of carrots, stars, ' ut with a cutter and serve with mint sauce. PORK PIE.—PATE DE PORC. LEICESTERSHIRE RECIPE. Ingredients.—A loin of pork, seasoning of pepper, salt,, sage and thyme. For the crust, 1 Jib. of lavd, {lb. suet, 1 pint hot water. Warm the lard and the suet, place them in the middle of the flour, and mix all together with the hot water, using a wooden spoon till it is a perfectly smooth paste. Roil out the paste to the thickness of J- an inch. Now raise the crust in a round form with the hand, it is best to do this near the fire as if the paste gets cold it will fall at once, and where the cook is inexperienced a jar can be placed in the ,middle of the paste and the crust moulded bn it. Cut into dice the lean and fat from the loin of pork, rather more lean than fat, season with pepper, salt, sage and thyme, put an alternate layer of fat and lean, tightly packed into the crust. Put on a lid of paste and bake slowly in a moderate oven for 2 hours. When cooked, remove the lid and pour some very strong stock in nearly cold. Send to table when quite cold. RAISED PIE. Ingredient^.—For the crust, lib. of flour, { a lb. of but- ter, 1 egg, a pinch of salt, 9oz. of veal, lloz. of fresh, pork, pate de foie gras, fillets of pigeons, partridge, or grouse, button mushrooms, truffles, hard boiled eggs, meat jelly, pepper and salt. Rub the butter into the flour, add the egg and salt and jnix the whole into a stiff paste with a little water. Roll it out fairly thin and line a raised pie tin which has been buttered, with it, pressing it well to the mould. Make a farce of the veal and pork by chopping them very finely and pass through a mincing machine twice. Make a lining to the paste of this farce. Fill the centre with the fillets of game, pate de foie gras, mushrooms, truffles, and hardboiled eggs. Cover the top with a layer of farce, and on this place a covering of paste. Bake the pie in a moderate oven for 2 to 3 hours. Let it remain till cool in the tin, then carefully remove the paste top and fill up the mould v ith some well flavoured liquid meat jelly (see Jellies;. When this is set cover the top of the pie with chopped aspic, and replace the paste top. ROYAL PIE.—PATE ROYALE. Ingredients.—1 sweetbread, forcemeat, 5 fat poultry livers, 6 truffles, 1 glass white wine, a little cullis. Line a raised pie tin "with paste as in previous recipe, Line it again with forcemeat. Cut the sweetbread, livers, and truffles into slices, and put them into the pie. When done pour in the cullis and wine which have been made hot together and serve. RED ROUND.—OLD IRISH RECIPE. Ingredients.—41bs. common salt 4ozs., saltpetre, 2oz. white pepper, 2oz. of allspice, loz. of cloves, Aoz. of mace, 2 nutmegs, 41b. beef suet, round of beef, 1 bottle of port wine, 1 pint gravy beef. Mrs the salt and saltpetre together and well rub the beef with it, then let it stand in a close vessel with a heavy weight on it for 14 days. Now wipe and dry it thoroughly. Grind the pepper, allspice, cloves, mace, and nutmegs well together, and when the beef is perfectly drained, make holes in it, and rub in the spices. When ready to Date put the gravy beef in the bottom of a pan, and rub the meat all over wfith the port wine, on the top strew the suet slued, and bake from 5 to 6 hours. When cold it is ready to serve. BREAST OF VEAL A LA PORTUGAISE.—POITRINE DE YEAU A LA PORTUGAISE. Ingredients.—Breast of veal, 8 onions, a faggot of thyme and parsley, a little mace, fat bacon, 3 pints of common stuck.93 Cut the chine bone from a breast of veal, then cut out the tendons and put them aside for an entree. Cover the bottom of a stewpan with the bacon, lay the veal in, add the onions, herbs, and stock. Cover with bacon and put over this a piece of white paper. Put the stewpan on a slow stove to simmer for two and a half hours. Now take it out, remove all the bones from it and dish it with a ragout made as follows. RAGOUT. Put 4 or 5 mushrooms into a stewpan with a little bit of butter, pepper and salt, and the juice of \ a lemon. Put it on a slow stove for \ of an hour. Now cut two long sweot- breads into slices, add them to the mushroooms with 2 dozen forcemeat balls. Strain the liqour the veal was cooked in, add to it as much sauce tournee as you require (see Sauces), and 2 glasses of Madeira. Put it to the ragout, boil down to a glaze and serve the ragout round the breast of veal. ROULARD OF VEAL A LA WINDSOR.—ROULARD DE VEAU A LA WINDSOR. Ingredie.nts.—Breast of weal, forcemeat, egg, pepper,, brown braise, mushroom sauce. Bone the veal and beat it well, brush it over with egg and season with pepper and salt. Cover the veal with a layer of forcemeat and brush that over with egg. Roll up the veal and fasten it with 3 small skewers to keep it in place. Tie it up with twine. Put it into a brown braise and braise it for 2 hours. When done take off the twine, glaze the veal and serve with mushroom sauce. VEAL BEWITCHED. VEAU ENCHANTE. AMERICAN RECIPE. Ingredients.—31bs. leg of veal, ^-lb. of pork, 1 cupful of breadcrumbs, 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, loz. black pepper, a94 pinch of cayenne pepper and cloves, 2 raw eggs. Chop the veal very fine, and the pork, add the other in- igredients and work in thoroughly the eggs. Put the mix- ture in a plain mould previously buttered. Put a cover on the mould and ste^m for two hours. Now put it into the oven for a short time to dry, leaving the oven door open. When cold turn out of the mould, cut in thin slices and garnish with good meat jellies (see Jellies). This is a very nice supper dish, and resembles boned turkey. GALANTINE of yeal.—galantine. Ingredients.—Breast of veal, Jib. fat bacon or ham, Jib. of boiled tongue, powdered spice, sweet herbs, pepper and salt to taste, some truffles, and gherkins, 1 calf’s foot, 2 onions, 2 carrots, a bunch of thyme, marjoram, parsley and bay leaf, 2 cloves, 3 peppercorns. Bone the veal, carefully remove all gristle and super- fluous fat and trim it. Cut off lib. of the meat and pound it with the bacon in a mortar seasoning with spice, pepper and salt. Pass this mixture through a wire sieve. Now cut the tongue in inch square pieces, and J a dozen or more truffles into four pieces. Flatten the veal well out, lay it on a table and sprinkle with powdered spice, pepper and salt. Spread over it a layer of the pounded meat, then a layer of the tongue, truffles, and sliced gherkin. Roll it up neatly like a roly poly, and tie it up tightly in a cloth Put the trimmings and bones of the veal in a large sauce- pan, the calf’s foot chopped up, vegetables, bouquet of sweet herbs, pepper and salt. Cover with water sufficient to cook the galantine in. When the contents boil put in the galan- tine and let it boil for two and a half hours. When it has partially cooled remove the cloth, tie it up again and put it between 2 dishes with a moderate weight on it. When quite cold remove the cloth, glaze the galantine, and garnish with savoury jelly which can be made from the liquor in which it has been boiled. FKICANDEAU OF VEAL.—FRICANDEAU DE VEAU. Ingredients.—2 or 31bs. fillet of veal, lardoons, 2 carrots, 2 onions, 3 leeks, J a head of celery, a bunch of herbs, 3 peppercorns, 1 pint of good stock.95 Lard the fillet in row's thickly. Slice the vegetables and put them with the other ingredients into a stewpan, on these place a few slices of fat bacon. Put theFricandeau on this, put on the lid of the stewpan and let the contents fry for a 1 of on hour to 20 minutes. Now add the stock and let the meat simmer very gently for 2 to hours according to size. Baste it frequently with the liquor. When done re- move it from the pan, brush it over with a little liquid glaze and put it into the oven for a short time to crisp the lardoons. Dish the Fricandeau on a very hot, dish, strain the stock from the vegetables, skim off the fat and pour round the meat. Serve with spinach or sorrel. IMITATION VENISON.—MOUTON MENTEUR. Ingredients.—A haunch of mutton, 4oz. of the coarsest brown sugar. Hang the mutton for two or three days, rub it well over with the sugar and turn it frequently. If kept longer than a week more sugar must be rubbed in and the longer it will keep perfectly good the better will be the flavour. Lay over the haunch a large sheet of paper, over this a thin common paste wrapped round in another paper, tie it securely and place the joint on the spit some distance from the fire. It will take to 4 hours to roast, \ an hour before serving remove the paper and. paste, bring it nearer to the fire, dredge it well with flour, baste it continually with butter. When it is a nice brown send to table with port wine or chevreuil sauce (see Sauces). , VENISON RAISED PIE.—PATE DE CHEVREUIL. Ingredients.—Shoulder and breast of venison pepper, salt and fine spice. Bone the venison two days before required for use, and season it with the pepper, salt, and spice. Stew the venison as directed for venison a la Velaftenberg, and when done cut the meat into neat pieces. Prepare the crust for the pie according to recipe given for raised pie, then fill it with the pieces of venison. Strain the liquor that it was stewed in,96 skim off the fat and pour it into the pie. Bake for about 2 hours and serve very hot. VENISON A LA VELAFTENBERG.—CHEVREUIL A LA VELAFTENBERG. Ingredients.—Neck of venison, fat bacon, 2 onions, 2 heads of celery, faggot of thyme, and parsley, 1 blade of mace, 2 pints of common stock. Cover the bottom of a braising pan with the bacon. Neatly trim the necklof venison and lay it on the bacon. Add the vegetables, herbs and stock and cover the meat with bacon over which place white paper. Cover the braising pan closely, and put it on a slow stove to simmer for 2 hours or more till the bones can be easily withdrawn. Now take out the venison. Skim and strain the braise and reduce it to a glaze. Brush the venison over with it and dish with French beans cooked in melted red currant jelly to which has been added a,very little port wine and cayenne pepper. Ser^ very hot.Section V. POULTRY AND GAME. r,'19 POULTRY AND GAME. CHRISTMAS PIE. FAMOUS OLD IRISH RECIPE. Ingredients.—2 geese, 2 turkeys, 21bs. raw and peeled truffles, 31bs. prime ham, fillet of veal, farce, bacon, 1 pint of stock, seasoning of pepper, salt, and fine spice. Bone the geese and turkeys and season them inside, then put them away in a cold larder for 3 days. Now draw the geese one within the other, and put some rich farce in the middle with about 6 truffles, and then tie the geese up into good shape. Prepare the turkeys in the same manner add- ing the ham which should have been previously braised for 2 hours and tie them up the same shape as the geese. Put the stock into a braising pan only just large enough to hold the birds, and put it on to a slow stove to simmer very gently for \ an hour. When this is done leave the birds to < ool in the pan. While they are cooling make a raised pie (according to previous recipes), and be sure the geese and turkey are quite cold before you put them into the pie. Cover the bottom of the pie with slices of veal, cover these with a layer of farce, then put in the birds, put farce between them and all round the sides of the pie, then add the remainder of the truffles and cover them with slices of bacon. Cover the pie with pastry and ornament it according to fancy. Next day put it into the oven for about 8 houis (one from which the bread has just been drawn is the best), and leave it for 24 hours to get thoroughly cold. A pie like this should be prepared 4 or 5 days before it is required. When ready to send to table, carefully remove the top, lake away the slices of bacon, cover with chopped aspic and ser ve. Where the pie is to be kept for some time the following stock will be found a better method than the aspic which is liable to tuna sour.100 STOCK FOR PIE. Ingredients.—The bones of the geese and turkeys, 2 old fowls, 21bs. of lean ham, 12 onions, 6 heads of celery, a faggot of thyme, parsley, and sweet herbs, 1 pint of water, rich stock. Put the above ingredients into a stewpan with the water and put the pan on the stove to simmer very slowly for 2 hours, but be sure the contents do not catch at the bottom. Then fill up the stewpan with the stock and let it boil very slowly for 3 hours. Now strain it off and fill the stewpan with water and let it boil all the evening. Skim the fat off the first liquor and put it into a stewpan and reduce it to a sufficient quantity to fill the pie after it is baked. Pour it into the pie \ an hour after it is taken out of the oven, letting it just cover the bacon. It will keep good for 2 months. Keep the second liquor for stock. CHICKEN A LA MARSEILLES.—POULET A LA MARSEILLES. Ingredients.—1 fine chicken, york ham, forcemeat, white braise, grilled mushrooms, glaze. Bone the chicken, leaving the skin as whole as possible, put into it the ham (which should be about the size of the breast of the chicken), and then stuff it with forcemeats Put the chicken into a braising pan with sufficient white braise (see sauces), and when quite tender take it out, dry the chicken in a clean cloth and then glaze it. Have ready Bonie grilled mushrooms, dish them on a very hot dish, put the chicken on them and serve at once with white mush- room sauce round the base of the dish garnished with fried; croutons. CHICKEN MAYONAISE.—MAYONAISE DE VOLA1LLE LADY C.’S FRENCH CHEF. Ingredients.—1 chicken, oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, cher- vil, chives, pimpernel, tarragon, hard boiled eggs, anchovies, gherkins.101 Cut a roast chicken in neat joints and marinade it in oil and vinegar, salt and pepper, to this add the chervil, chives, pimpernel, and tarragon, finely chopped. Leave the chicken in this marinade for a little time, then arrange the pieces in a silver dish, surround them with a girdle of sliced hard boiled'egg, anchovies washed and boned, and chopped gher- kins. Fill the base of the dish with well dried cut lettuce and pour over all mayonaise sauce (see French chef’s re- cipe Sauces). CHICKEN WITH PARMESAN.—POULET A LA ROMAINE. Ingredients.—1 chicken, J of a lb. of butter, Jr a pint of white wine, \ a pint of common stock, a bunch of sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, pepper, salt, and spices to taste, 2oz. of flour, grated Parmesan cheese. Split the chicken down the back with a sharp knife, flatten it well, then put in a Saute pan with tho butter. As soon as it shows a sign of colouring on one side, turn it over, and when both are done alike, moisten with the wine, and stock. Then add the herbs, garlic, spices, and seasoning. .Simmer very gently for \ an hour or more according to size. Now strain the hquor into a saucepan with a little butter, and the flour. Work this sauce till quite smooth on the fire, pour some of it into a silver entree dish and strew it plentifully with Parmesan cheese'. On this place the chicken, pour the remauider of the sauce over. Sprinkle more Parmesan over all, put in a moderate oven, and when a nice •colour send to table very hot. Grilled mushrooms are very nice served with this dish. CHICKEN A LA FRANCAISE.—POULET EN CASSEROLE. Ingredients.—1 chicken, 4ozs. of butter, f of a pint of v. ell-flavoured rich stock, ^ a lb. of streaky bacon, ^ of a pint of sherry or port wine, 1 tablespoonful of glaze, 1 shallot, a bunch of herbs. Truss the bird as for braising, rub it over with the butter, and place it in the casserole with the stock, to this add the102 bacon cut up, wine, shalot, herbs, and glaze. Put the cover on the casserole and cook the contents in a moderate oven for 30 to 40 minutes. The more it is basted while cooking the better it will be. When the chicken is done, strain the gravy from the casserole, carefully remove any fat on the top, then return it, the chicken, and the gravy to the cas- serole. Make it quite warm in th oven, and send to table with a “ pie dish collar ” round the bowl. DUCKLINGS DUTCH FASHION.—CANNETONS A L’HOLL AND AISE. Ingredients.—A couple of ducklings, £ of a lb of butter, 2 small onions, juice of \ a lemon, \ a bunch of sweet heibs (parsley, bay leaf, thyme, and marjoram), lib. of cherries, salt, ] | pine of good stock. Into each duck put a piece of butter and an onion finely chopped, or if large half a one. Put them down to a quick fire and roast them till they begin to colour. Baste them well with butter, lemon juice, and a pinch of salt. New put them in a stewpan with the herbs and the stock which should be quite free from fat, and add the cherries stontd. Simmer all together very gently and when the cherries and ducklings are quite done, put the birds on a hot dish, strain the gravy, and serve it and the cherries round the dish. DUCKS A LA BRUGES.—CANARDS A LA BRUGES. Ingredients.—1 or 2 ducks, forcemeat, rather more than a pint of rich stock, | a pint of sheny, 6 onions, a faggot of herbs, bacon, glaze, cullis, 2 dozen olives. Bone the ducks, fill them with forcemeat and put them into a stewpan with a little of the stock, put the pan on a slow stove for 10 minutes, then add the stock, bones, giblets, onions, herbs, and sherry. Cover the ducks with bacon and do them on a slow stove for 2 hours. Take them out, dry them with a cloth, and glaze them. Strain and skin the fat off the liquor they were cooked in and reduce it to glaze, and add to it as much cullis as you want sauce. Turn the olives (that is stone them without breaking them), boil them in the sauce, dish the ducks, and serve the sauce round them.103 WILD FOWL.—DELICIOUS WAY OF COOKING. Ingredients.—Wild fowl, 2 small onions, | a teacupful of red wine, clear gravy, cayenne pepper, 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, flcur, butte7'. Cut the onions in small pieces and stuff the bird with them. Mix the wine with some good gravy (be sure it is quite clear), and pour it through the bird. Now flour the wild fuwl well and place it rather near a very clear and brisk fire, and roast, it from 20 to 25 minutes (on no ac- count let it be overdone) basting it plentifully with butter (the more it is basted the better it will be), and let the spit turn rapidly. Heat the gravy with the wine, cayenne pepper and lemon juice, but do not let it boil, pour it into a dish, serve the bird on it, and send to table. Wild duck is simply delicious cooked in this way. FOWL A LJANGELE.—ANGELES RECIPE Ingredients.—A fine fowl, white wine, 1 pint of rice, water, pepper, mace, 2 cloves, mushrooms, white sauce, 2oz. butter. When the fowl is trussed for boiling stuff it with chopped mushrooms, boil it gently in the wine, basting it occasionally with the sauce. Boil the rice with sufficient water to cover it, put the pepper, mace, and cloves in a muslin bag and add it to the rice. When it is tender remove the bag and mix the butter with the rice. Place the fowl on a hot dish, put the rice round it, and over all pour a good white sauce. GAME PIE.—PATE DE GIBIER. Ingredients.—Woodcocks, snipe, or grouse, lean cooked veal, bacon, yolk of 1 or 2 eggs, breadcrumbs, common stock, 1 parboiled onion, powdered spices, and powdered sweet herbs to taste, pepper and salt, truffles, mushrooms, white wine, lemon juice, meat jelly, forcemeat. For the crust aHow lib of flour to every 41b. of butter, \ pint of water, the yolks of 2 eggs, £ a teaspoonful of salt. Make a paste with the above ingredients, and work it up very smoothly, roll it out to the thickness of threoeighths of104 an inch. Butter a raised pie mould and line it with the paste. Bone the woodcock, snipe or grouse (or any game in season) cut them up in convenient pieces. Take the livers, parboil them, chop them up very fine, adding their weight in veal and bacon. Pound the whole through a mortar adding 2 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs soaked in stock, the onion, spices, herbs, pepper and salt, and 2oz. of butter. When this mixture is thoroughly pounded, pass through a hair sieve, and work into it the yolks of two eggs. Fill up the pie with the pieces of game, mushrooms (cooked in lemon juice), truffles (cooked in white wine) and fill up the cavities with force- meat. Put on a cover of paste, making a hole in the centre, place a buttered paper on the top and bake in a moderate oven for 4 hours. Remove from the oven, and pour in through the hole some good liquid meat jelly (see Jellies). When the pie is quite cold and ready to serve, take off the cover and put a layer of chopped aspic jelly on the top. This recipe is suitable for all game and poultry pies, using one or more birds according to the size of the pie. When the pie is required very rich the breast pieces of the game or poultry should be larded. Care should be taken that the paste fits the mould exactly and crimp the edges at the top with a paste cutter. DRESSED HARE.—LIEVRE. OLD ENGLISH RECIPE. Ingredients.—1 hare, 1 quart mild ale, bread crumbs, 2 anchovies, \ a shallot, some thyme and parsley, 3 spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, 1 yolk of egg, a little finely chopped suet, 1 glass of port wine, flour and butter, slice of bread. Prepare the hare as for roasting and wash it well with the ale. Make a stuffing with the bread crumbs, anchovies, washed, boned, and chopped, minced shallot, thyme and parsley, chop the liver of the hare, moisten all with one Bpoonful of the ketchup and mix all together with the egg and suet, stuff the hare with this and a thick slice of white bread. Now strain the ale carefully, and put it under the hare to baste it whilst roasting till it is one half reduced. Next baste the hare well with butter and a little flour, and when the hare is cooked add to the ale the remainder <d the ketchup, the port wine, and thicken with flour and out-105 ter. Pour this very hot over the hare and serve. In the odd manuscript from which this recipe is taken it sav« that pickled mushrooms should be served round the hare but per- sonally I prefer a dish of fresh stewed mushrooms served iu a separate dish. A well hung leg of mutton treated the same way is most excellent. HARE A LA SALISBURY.—LIEVRE A LA SALISBURY. Ingredients —1 roast hare, 4 large onions, a faggot of thyme, and parsley, a blade of mace, 1 pint rich stock, 1 pint of port wine, 2oz. of butter, flour, 2 dozen button onions. Cut up the hare (which on no account should be dry) into very neat joints. Put the trimmings into a stewpan with the onions, herbs, stock, and wine. Put the pan on a slow etove and let it boil very gently for 2 hours, then strain it off. Put the butter in another stewpan, melt it, and mix into a little flour, stir it about, then add the liquor from the hare trimmings, boil it for a few minutes ami strain it through a tammy. Boil the button onions in a little stock. When done dish the hare, pour the sauce over it, place the onions on the top and serve with red currant jelly. HARE CAKES.—EXCELLENT FOR BREAKFAST OR SUPPER. OLD ENGLISH RECIPE. Ingredients.—1 hare, fat and lean ham, 3oz. of butter, 1 pint common stock, pepper, salt, and a very little fine spice, 1 pint of port wine, clarified butter, aspic jelly. Bone the hare and cut it up into small pieces, to the pro- portion of hare add as much fat and loan ham. Put it into a stewpan with the butter, stock, pepper, salt, and spice. Put the pan on a slow stove to draw down for an hour, then add the port and let it boil very slowly till all the liquor is reduced to a glaze. Then put the contents of the stewpan into a mortar and pound the hare very fine. Add more seasoning if required. Then put it into small jars or one large jar, as fancy dictates, pour over it some clarified butter106 and put them into a slow oven for A an hour. When re- quired turn out the hare by placing the jar for a few minutes in warm water and garnish with chopped aspic. PHEASANT A LA FRANCAISE.—FAISAN A LA FRANCAISE. Ingredients.—1 pheasant, 6 small cabbages, any trim- mings of game and poultry the larder may furnish, 1 quart of rich stock, 2 onions, a faggot of herbs, \ a pint of skerry,, bacon, 2oz. of butter, flour, a squeeze of lemon juice. Draw in the legs of the pheasants. Put the game and poultry trimmings, neck and gizzard of the pheasant into a stewpan with the onions, herbs, stock and sherry. Wrap the pheasant in bacon and place it breast downwards in the pan, set it on the stove and let it do very gently for 1 hour. When it is half cooked put in the cabbages, when done strain and skim the liquor the pheasant was stewed in. Put the butter into another stewpan and when melted add sufficient flour to dry it up. Now pour in the strained liquor and lemon juice and give it one boil, dish the pheasant with the cabbages round it and pour the sauce over all. PARTRIDGE PUDDING.—BOUDIN DE PERDRIS. Ingredients.—A brace of partridges, Jib. of mushrooms, 2 shallots, a teaspoonful of minced parsley, suet paste, pepper and salt. Skin the birds, cut them into neat pieces and put them with the mushrooms cleaned, peeled, and chopped, into a basin lined with suet paste, add the shallots minced and pai sley, season with pepper and salt. Moisten with a little stock, cover the pudding with paste, tie it up in a cloth and boil gently for 3 hours. Serve. BRAISED PARTRIDGES.—PERDRIX BRAISE. Ingredients.—A brace of partridges, fat bacon for lar- doons, 2 slices of lean bacon, 2 onions, 6 cloves, 2 sliced carrots, a bunch of sweet herbs, 1 pint of common stock, J pint of white wine, pepper and salt. Truss the birds as for boiling and lard their breasts. Put them into a small braising pan with the slices of bacon in107 the bottom, add the onions, cloves, carrots, sweet herbs,, stock, wine, and pepper and salt to taste. Place a buttered paper over all and braise them gently for 2 hours, keeping some live embers on the lid of the pan. Strain the liquor in. which they were cooked, free it carefully from fat and serve round them. PARTRIDGES A LA FRANCAISE.—PERDRIX AUX CHOUX. Ingredients.—1 brace of partridges, |lb. of fat bacon, I medium sized cabbage, a bunch of sweet herbs, ^lb. pork sausages, pepper and salt. Truss the partridges as for boiling, mince the bacon, put it into a saucepan on the fire, and when quite hot put in the birds and toss them in this till nicely coloured all over. Blanch the cabbage in slightly salted water, drain it, squeeze all the water from it, chop it up and add to the contents of the saucepan. Put in the sweet herbs, sausages (each cut in three) and pepper and salt to taste. Moisten with a little stock. Let the whole simmer for 2 hours. Remove the herbs end serve with the cabbages and sausages round the birds. PARTRIDGES. GERMAN FASHION. PERDRIX A L’ALLEMANDE. Ingredients.—A brace of partridges, 2 vine leaves, 4 slices of thin fat bacon, 1 pint of boiling cream, fine brown rasp- ings, butter. t russ the birds as for roasting, lay a vine leaf on the breast of each, and on this place 2 slices of bacon. Fasten securely with tape and put the birds in a stewpan, with sufficient but- ter to baste them with. When well browned on one side, turn and brown on the other, basting continually. 'When sufficiently cooked, put the birds on a hot dish, pour over them the cream, cover thickly with the raspings made hot and serve.108 PIGEON. COLONEL B’S RECIPE. Ingredients.—1 or more pigeons, pepper, fresh butter, lemon juice. Cut the pigeon (uncooked in half), pepper the inside, and rub each half well over with butter, broil over a very clear fire, sprinkle a little lemon juice and serve on very hot but- tered toast. Port wine sauce is excellent served with this dish. COMPOTE OF PIGEONS A L’ANGELE.—VERY DELICIOUS. LADY C.’S CHEF. Ingredients.—4 wild pigeons, forcemeat, Jib. of lean ham, 2 onions, 1 blade of mace, a faggot of thyme and parsley. 2 bay leaves, J a pint of sherry, 1 pint of common stock, bacon, 2oz. butter, flour, a few truffles. Draw the legs of the pigeons (in the same manner as you would do chickens for boiling), singe them and fill them with forcemeat, into each pigeon put a raw truffle. Now put the necks and gizzards into a stewpan with any other giblets the larder may furnish, the ham, onions, herbs, bay leaves, sherry, and stock. Wrap the pigeons up in bacon, put them into the stewpan on a slow fire to do very gently for 1 hour. Then strain the liquor and skim off the fat care- fully. Put the butter into a stewpan and when it is melted add sufficient flour to make it the proper thickness, stir it over the lire for a minute or two then add the strained liquor, let it boil for a few minutes, stirring all the time. Slice the truffles, add them to the sauce. Now take up the pigeon*, lay them on a cloth to dry, dish them, pom’ the sauce over and serve. Some forcemeat balls can be added as a garnish. PIGEONS A LA GRANDE DUCHESSE.—PIGEONS A LA GRANDE DUCHESSE. Ingredients.—4 pigeons, farce, lardoons, bacon, 1 pint of stock, 4 onions, a faggot of thyme and parsley, a few bay leaves, 1 blade of mace, ragout of cockscombs, fried crou- tons.109 Draw in the legs of the pigeons and fill them with farce (see below), then lard them. Cover the bottom of a stewpan with bacon, add the stock, onions, herbs, and bay leaves. Put in the pigeons and cover them with bacon. Put the pan on the stove to simmer for i an hour and keep some lighted charcoal on the lid of the stewpan. When the pigeons are done, glaze them, put the ragout in the centre of a dish, the pigeons on it, and garnish with fried croutons. FARCE. Ingredients.—Veal, equal proportion fat ham, half the amount of beef suet and lean ham, 2oz. of butter seasoned with a little chopped parsley, thyme, mushrooms, and truffles, if obtainable, pepper and salt, cayenne pepper, a very little shallot and pounded spice. Cut as much veal as you want farce (and let it be perfectly free from gristle and sinew) into small pieces, with the ham, add the suet and put all into a stewpan with the seasoned butter at the bottom. Put the pan over the fire and keep stirring the contents till the juice from the meat begins to flow, then simmer for 10 minutes, and put on one side to cool. When cold put the mixture into a mortar, gravy, fat and all, pound it thoroughly till it is quite fine and smooth,, then it will be ready for use. RAGOUT OF COCKSCOMBS. Blanch the combs, then put them on in a little stoch and do them till tender, then add to them the liquor (strained and skimmed), the pigeons were cooked in. Give one boil' up and use. PIGEON PIE. EXCELLENT OLD RECIPE. Ingredients.—8 pigeons, rump steak, pepper, salt and fine herbs, forcemeat, 8 hard boiled eggs, a little rich stock. Line a raised pie tin os in previous recipes large enough to hold the pigeons. Lay a piece of very tender steak in the bottom of the tin. Cover it with forcemeat, on this put another piece of steak and cover that with forcemeat. Season110 the pigeons with, the pepper, salt, and herbs, and put them in the pie. Cut the eggs in slices and add them. Cover in the pie and bake for 2 hours. When done carefully remove the top crust and pour in the stock. If to be eaten cold cover the top with chopped meat jelly and replace the cover. RABBIT A LA CHIPOLATA.—LAPIN A LA CHIPOLATA. Ingredients.—2 rabbits, bacon, 1 pint of stock, 6 onions, a faggot of herbs, 1 blade of mace, JUb. of fat pork, such as is used for pickling, 1 an ounce of butter, flour, 1 glass of sberry, juice of half a lemon, a pinch of sugar, 12 hard boiled eggs. Cut up the rabbits as for a fricassee and blanch them, when they come to a boil, remove them from the fire, pour off the hot water, then put them into cold water. Take of! the second skin and trim them neatly. Cover the bottom of a stewpan with bacon, put in the rabbits, stock, onions, and herbs. Now cut the pork which should have previously boiled for \ an hour in small square pieces and add it to the contents of the stewpan, cover over with more bacon and a sheet of paper and set the pan on a slow stove to simmer for 1 hour. Strain the liquor from the rabbit, skimming it care- full}'' from fat. Melt the butter in a stewpan and add to ::it as much flour as will dry it up. RABBITS A LA WINCHESTER.—LAPINS A LA WINCHESTER. Ingredients.—2 rabbits, forcemeat, any trimmings of poultry, 2 onions, faggot of herbs, 3 bay leaves, 2 lemons, bacon, 1 pint of white stock, a few truffles or mushrooms. Bone the rabbits and spread them with the forcemeat and shape them as much as possible into the shape of a chicken prepared for boiling. Put the bones into a stewpan with the poultry trimmings, onions, herbs and bay leaves. Put in the rabbits. Peel the lemons, slice them and put them on the rabbits, cover with bacon, add the stock and put the pan or. the fire to simmer very slowly for 11 hours. Take out the rabbits Strain and skim the liquor they were cooked in, add the truffles or mushroom, and make the sauce hot. Pour it over the rabbits and serve.Ill ROMAN PIE.—PATE A LA ROMAINE. ITALIAN RECIPE. Ingredients.—1 rabbit, 4oz. of ham, 2oz. of maccaroni, 2oz. grated Parmesan cheese, \ a teaspoonful of finely mmccd shallot and parsley, half a small teacupful of cream, vermi- celli, paste, pepper and salt. Boil the rabbit and cut it into neat pieces, butter a pud- ding basin and line it thickly with vermicelli, line this again with a paste made with |lb. of flour to l|oz. of butter, with sufficient water to mix into a thin paste. Now put in the) rabbit and ham cut in dice into the basin, the maccaroni boiled very tender, | an oz. of vermicelli,, also boiled and broken, the Parmesan cheese, shallot, parsley, cream, pepper and salt to taste. Cover the pudding basin with paste and bake for an horn*. When done turn out carefully and serve with Italian or tomato sauce (see Sauces). TRUEELED TURKEY A LA DUBOIS.—DINDON FARC1E. A LA DUBOIS. Inoredients.—1 turkey, 21bs. of truffles, white farce, fat bacon, 1 pint of sherry, 1 pint rich stock, squeeze of orange and lemon juice, a little cullis. Three days before the turkey is required for dressing, draw it and put into it the truffles which have not been peeled or cooked. Tie a string round the neck of the turkey tightly, and another at the vent. Hang it up by the legs. When wanted take it down, truss it and take out the truffles. Pare and slice one half of them and lay them be- tween the skin and the breast. Then fill the crop full of white farce made as below. Cover the breast of the turkey with slices of lemon, then wrap it up in fat bacon. Tie it securely with thread and put it down to roast, keeping it well basted all the time. It will take 2 hours. Put soma fat bacon into a braising pan, put in the truffles, cover them with more fat bacon, add the stock and wine, and when done tako out the truffles and pare them very thinly. Strain112 the braise they were cookd in, skim off any fat, add a little cullis and orange and lemon juice, and serve with the truffles round the turkey. Send to table very hot. WHITE FARCE. Ingredients.—Equal proportions of scraped veal and fa' ham, half the quantity of lean ham, as many choppe> truffles as you can afford, a very little chopped shallot parsley, and thyme, 2 eggs, bread crumbs, pepper and salt Pound all these ingredients thoroughly well together it a mortar, and when perfectly amalgamated and smooth us». as required. PIGEONS A LA CRAPAUDINE.—PIGEONS A LA CRAPAUDINE. Ingredients.—4 or 6 pigeons, 4 ounces of butter, a littU chopped shallot, parsley, thyme, mushrooms, pepper am. ■alt, bread crumbs, clarified butter, sauce piquante. Split the pigeons, take out the breast bone and the leg and thigh bone, also the wing bone and cut off the pinions. Flat the pigeons with a flatter. Put the butter into a siew- pan, with the herbs, mushrooms, pepper and salt. Put the pigeons on a dish and pour the butter when it is melted over them. When the butter begins to get cold roll th • pigeons in bread crumbs and put them in a Saute pan whicl. has been well buttered with clarified butter. When th* under side is nicely browned turn the pigeons and brow, the other side. Lay them on a cloth to soak the butte from them, serve them round a dish and the sauce in th centre (see Sauces).Section VI. MEAT JELLIES.'115 MEAT JELLIES. ASPIC JELLY FOR GARNISHING. ASPIC. Ingredients.—1 quart of common stock, 2 oz. of gelatine, 1 small onion or shallot, 1 carrot, 1 teaspoonful of pepper- corns, juice of 1 lemon, 1 blade of mace, 1 tablespoonful of brown vinegar, a little fresh tarragon, or a small spoonful of tarragon vinegar, 4! cloves, small bunch of parsley, 2 whites and shells of eggs, and 1 bay leaf. A little Liebig Company’s Extract. Put the stock quite free from fat into a saucepan with tht gelatine, lemon juice, bay leaf, parsley, other ,vegetables spices, salt, peppercorns, and Liebig. Add the vinegar and eggs and whisk all together over the fire till it boils, then draw the pan to the side of the fire and let the contents simmer for 10 to 15 minutes. Strain twice through a jelly bag and use as required. This aspic is used for border moulds also. ASPIC JELLY. Ingredients.—2 calf’s feet, 21b. knuckle of veal, 4 slices of ham,, any available poultry, trimmings and carcases, 2 carrots, 2 onions sliced, a bouquet garni, salt and pepper to taste, common stock, whites and shells of 2 eggs, 1 wine- glassful of tarragon vinegar, sufficient browning to give the right golden colour. Cut the ham in slices, and lay it in the bottom of a stew pan, chop up the calf’s feet and veal in small pieces, add tl'.em to the ham, then put in the poultry trimmings, vegeb aides, bouquet garni, and seasoning. Fill up the stewpan with the stock (say 3 quarts) and let the whole simmer very gently for 4 hours, carefully removing any scum that rises. Now strain the liquor through a fine sieve into a basin and when cold carefully remove any fat. Now put the jelly into a very clean stewpan, add the browning, and when the jelly is melted whisk into it the whites and shells of eggs and the tarragon vinegar. Let it come to boiling point whisking *11 the time, then draw it to the side of the stove, simmer as in preceding recipe and strain. If not quite clear heat £1 up .again and strain a second tini'116 MEAT JELLY. Ingredients.—31b. shin of beef, any available poultry trimmings (and if using for game pies game trimmings;, 2 quarts of water (or common stock freed from fat), 1 carrot, 1 onion, stuck with 3 cloves, 2 shallots, a bunch of herbs, a teaspoonful of peppercorns, salt to season, loz. gelatine. Cut the beef in inch square pieces and chop up the poultry trimmings, put them into a saucepan with the water and bring slowly to the boil, skimming it caiefully. Now add the vegetables, herbs, and seasoning, and simmer very gently for 4 hours. Strain through a fine sieve or jelly bag, and when cold mix into the jelly the gelatine previously soaked in cold water. If the jelly is not quite clear, re-heat, and clarify as above. SIMPLE SAVOURY JELLY. Ingredients.—loz. gelatine, 1 tablespoonful of French vinegar, 2 teaspoonfuls of Liebig’s extract of meat, \ tea- spoonful of salt, £ pint common stock, white and shell of egg- Soak the gelatine in cold water, and after dissolving it in a pint of boiling water, put it into a saucepan with the ex- tract of meat, salt and stock, add the white and shell of egg, bring to the boil, slowly whisking all the time, then let the saucepan stand for 2 minutes by the side of the stove. Strain the jelly and use. TOMATO ASPIC.—ASPIC AU TOMATES. Ingredients.—8 tomatoes, H pints of aspic jelly, pepper and salt, 1 or 2 drops of cochineal, a small teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar. Pound the tomatoes, season them with pepper and salt, and colour them prettily with cochineal, add the aspic jelly made very stiffly, then rub the mixture through a tammy, when this is done, warm it, put in the tarragon vinegar, and pour it into a tin to the thickness you desire. When set cut it out in rounds or fancy shapes, and use for garnisliine pur- poses. This aspic is also very useful for a variety of cold hers d’oeuvres and savouries in lieu of the usual crouton, and is not only pretty but tasty.Section VII. SAUCES119 SAUCES. BRAISE (WHITE). Ingredients.—A knuckle of veal, butter, 2 onions, a faggot of thyme and parsley, 2 blades of mace, a lemon thinly sliced, white stock. Put the veal into a stewpan with sufficient cold water and let it come to a boil, then put it into cold water for a few minutes, then cut the meat in small pieces. Put them into a stewpan with a little bit of butter, the onions, herbs, mace, and lemon. Add a spoonful of water. Put the pan on a slow stove and keep stirring the contents for a few minutes, then add sufficient stock for what you want to braise. Generally used for tendons of lamb, or veal, chickens, and pigeons. BRAISE (BROWN). Ingredients.—Beef suet, trimmings of mutton cutlets, 4 onions, a faggot of thyme and parsley, a very little basil, marjoram, mace, a sliced carrot, 2oz. of butter, 1 or 2 bay leaves, 6 heads of celery, common stock, 1 wineglassful of white wine or sherry, and 1 teaspoonful of Liebig Company’s Extract. Cut the suet and trimmings into small pieces and put them into a stewpan with the vegetables, herbs, spices, and butter, add a little stock. Put the pan over the fire and let the contents draw down for about half-an-hour. Then fill it up with stock, put in the wine and use as a braise for mutton, beef, veal, or ham. MELTED BUTTE1L—SAUCE AU BEURRE. Ingredients.—2oz. of butter, a dessertspoonful of flour, about 2 tablespoonfuls of water, salt to taste.120 Put the butter into a delicately clean enamelled saucepan, melt, it, then add the flour, and water, very gradually, season with salt, stir it continually one way till the ingredients are thoroughly mixed, and perfectly smooth, boil for 2 minutes, and use as required. BLONDE SAUCE.—SAUCE BLONDE. Ingredients.—1 teacupful of melted butter, 3 tablespoon- fuls rich stock, 2 mushrooms, 1 lemon, a sprig of parsley, 1 onion, 1 glass of sherry, yolks of 3 eggs. ^ Mince the mushrooms very fine and the parsley, slice the onion and lemon. Put these ingredients into a stewpan with the stock and wine. Simmer gently for i an hour, add the yolks of the eggs well whisked, and stir over the fire for 5 or 6 minutes, strain the sauce through a sieve and serve with any fish. BROWN SPANISH SAUCE.—ESPAGNOLE. Ingredients.—lib. of veal, |lb. of lean ham, 1 pint of white stock, 1 carrot cut small, \ a bay leaf, 2 sprigs of parsley, thyme, and marjoram, 2 cloves, a blade of mace, 1 onion sliced, 2 glasses of sherry, pepper and salt to taste, 2oz. of butter, jdb. of butter. Cut up the veal and ham in small squares, put them into a slightly buttered stewpan with the onions at the bottom, add £ a pint of stock, and simmer the contents, stirring fre- quently till the meat is well coloured. Then add the re- mainder of the stock (with the carrot, parsley, thyme, mar- joram and spices) which should be sufficient to cover the contents of the stewpan and boil gently for 2 hours. Now strain the sauce through a tammy, being careful to have re- moved every particle of fat. Put the butter and flour in a saucepan, mix them well together with a spoon till a nice light brown colour, then add to this the sauce and simmer gently for li hours by the side of the fire frequenily skimming the contents. Strain through a cloth, and when required for use boil up and add the wine. In a good larder this sauce will keep some days but must be warmed up every day.121 BROWN SAUCE (ITALIAN).—SAUCE ITALIENNE. Ingredients.—2 medium sized onions, a small cupfui of minced ham, 1 pint of rich stock, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 2 tablespoonfuls of minced mushrooms, 2 glasses of Madeira or white wine, loz. of butter, pepper and salt. Brown the onions with the butter in a saucepan, then add the ham, stock, parsley, mushrooms, wine, and pepper and salt to taste Boil for 10 minutes over a quick fire. Strain and serve. Note.—This sauce is often flavoured with lemon juice and when required extra rich a tumblerful of espagnole sauce should be added, or if not- handy, add some Liebig Company’s Extract. CUCUMBER SAUCE.—SAUCE AUX CONCOMBRES. Ingredients.—Cucumbers, button onions, vinegar, water, pepper, salt, stock, cullis, a squeeze of lemon and a pinch, of sugar. Peel the cucumbers, then cut them into quarters, take all the seed out and cut each quarter into 3 pieces, paring them neatly. Peel as many button onions as you have pieces of cucumber and put both into a little vinegar and water. Season with pepper and salt and let them lay in this marinade for 2 hours. Now drain them off and put them into a stewpan with as much stock as will barely cover them. Boil them down to a glaze, then put in as much Bechamel as you require sauce, add the lemon juice and sugar, ancl serve. CAPUCIN SAUCE.—SAUCE CAPUCIN. CONVENT RECIPE. Ingredients.—6 tomatoes, 1 clove of garlic, £ a chili, a small handful of basil, 3 tablespoonfuls of olive oil, pepper and salt to taste, common stock. Cut the tomatoes in slices and put them in a saucepan with the garlic, chili, and basil. Toss these in the sauce- pan with the olive oil and moisten with stock sufficient to make the sauce, season with pepper and salt, pass the whole through a hair sieve and serve with boiled fish.vn CHEVREU1L SAUCE—SAUCE CHEVREUIL. Ingredients.—4oz. of lean ham, 1 bay leaf, 3 or 4 green onions, 2 sprigs of parsley, a sprig of thyme, \ of a pint cf French vinegar, 3 tablespoonfuls of brown, sauce, j a pint of red wine, 4 a pint of good stock, 1 spoonful of red cur- rant jelly, the juice of an orange, a pinch of pepper. Chop the ham, put it into a stewpan with the bay leaf, onions, parsley, thyme, and vinegar, boil on the fire till it is reduced to half its quantity, then add the sauce, wine, and stock, stir on the fire till it boils, skimming it well. Now strain it through a pieve into a small stewpan containing the red currant jelly, set it on the fire to boil, add the orange juice and pepper, and serve. This sauce is served with venison and is also very nice with haunch of mutton. CHATEAU B RI AND SAUCE.—SAUCE CHATEAUBRIAND. Ingredients.—1 glass of white wine, loz. of glaze. 4 pint of espagnole sauce, 2oz. of fresh butter, £ a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, the strained juice of half a lemon. Suffi- cient maitre d’hotel sauce to thicken. Put the wine, glaze, and espagnole sauce into a stewpan, let the sauce boil, then add the butter, and when it is melted put in the parsley, lemon juice, and a pinch of sugar. Add sufficient maitre d’hotel sauce to bring the Chateaubriand to the desired thickness and serve at once. CHAUFROID SAUCE.—CHAUFROID. Ingredients.—The carcases and trimmings of 2 roast fowls, 1 pint of white stock, 2 shallots, 2 cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper and salt to taste, 1 glass of white wine, J of a pint of Bechamel sauce, 4 a pint of aspic jelly. Let the above ingredients with the exception of the Bechamel and aspic jelly, boil gently for 2 hours. Strain the liquor, and free it carefully from fat, reduce it on tho fire to a quarter part, keeping it well skimmed, then stir in the Bechamel sauce and aspic jelly, and if required extra rich ^ pint of cream, pass it through a sieve and use as required.123 CAPRI SAUCE.—SAUCE CAPRI. Ingredients.—2 wineglassfuls of sherry or white wine, 2 ininced mushrooms, 1 teaspoonful chopped shallot, 4 a bay leaf, loz. of glaze, 2 tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce, a tea- spoonful of mustard mixed with vinegar, 1 pint of espagnole or Italian sauce. P>oil all together for J of an hour, keep carefully skimmed while boiling, run through a sieve and serve with any kind of fish, but specially salmon. CARMEN SAUCE FOR BOILED OR FRIED FISH. Ingredients.—The roes and livers of any kind of fresh fish, say Jib. of each, 2 sprays of parsley, 1 onion, pepper, salt, powdered spices, and lemon juice to taste, olive oil, J a toaspoonful of capers. Fry the liver and roe slightly in olive oil, add the parsley and onion finely minced, and all the other ingredients, ex- cept the lemon, when sufficiently cooked pound the whole thoroughly in a mortar, add the capers, lemon juice, suffi- cient oil to bring the same to the proper consistency and serve very hot. CHEESE SAUCE.—SAUCE AU FROM AGE. Ingredients.—\ a pint of white sauce, 4oz. of grated Par- mesan cheese, 2oz. of fresh butter, salt and cayenne pepper. Put the sauce into a stew pan with the cheese, butter, salt, and cayenne. Stir over the fire till it is well mixed, and use. When wanted extra rich the yolks of 4 eggs can be added to the sauce which should not be allowed to boil or the eggs will curdle. CULLIS. Ingredients.—Equal proportions of veal and ham, 2 uid fowls, 3 shallots, a faggot of thyme, parsley, and sweet mar- joram, 2 bay loaves, a blade of mace find a handful of mush- rooms, 1 pint common stock, rich stock, fat bacon, butter, flour. Cut the ham and veal into pieces and chop up the fowls. Line the bottom of a stewpan with the bacon and put in124 the above with the shallots, herbs, bay leaves, mace and mushrooms, add J a pint of common stock, and set the pan on a stove and let it draw down gently till it comes to a glaze at the bottom of the stewpan. Now add the other i pint of common stock and when that is drawn down put in as much rich stock as will fili your stewpan. For every quart of cullis allow 2oz. of butter, put that into another stewpan, let it melt, then dredge in as much flour as will dry it up. Keep stirring with a wooden spoon over the stove and then add the cullis stock little by little at a time till it becomes the proper consistency. Let it boil for a few minutes, then strain it through a tammy into a basin, and stir it several times with a spoon to ensure its being smooth, use as required. In winter this sauce will keep good for a week, not more than 3 days in summer. CALF’S HEAD SAUCE.—A L’IRLANDAISE. Ingredients.—Jib. of butter, 3 or 4 chopped shallots, a handful of chopped parsley, same of mushrooms, and a bouquet of orange and lemon thyme, sweet and knotted marjoram, a very little basil, 2 large chopped onions, Jib. of lean ham, J pint of stock, 3 tablespoonfuls of flour, 1 pint of Madeira or sherry, a squeeze of lemon juice, cayenne pepper. Put the butter into a stewpan with the herbs, mushrooms, and onions. Add the ham minced very fine, and the stock. Put the pan on the stove and let it simmer for one hour. Now put in the flour and stir it about for a minute or two with a wooden spoon. When this is done add the stock your calf’s head was boiled in, also the Madeira, and keep stirring till the sauce boils, let it boil a few minutes, then tammy it, and just before serving add the lemon juice and cayenne. FRENCH WHITE SAUCE.—BECHAMEL. Ingredients.—2 pints of white stock, a bunch of sweet herbs, 3 mushrooms, whole pepper and salt to taste, 2 cloves, 1 blade of mace, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 1 pint of cream, a sprig of parsley, 1 onion, 1 carrot, A a head of celery, $ a bay leaf. 4oz. of fresh butter.125 Put the llour and butter into a stewpan and mix them well together with a wooden spoon, add the onion, carrot, celery, cut up thin, the herbs, mush- rooms, cloves, mace, parsley, and bay leaf, add the stock, season with pepper and salt, and put in the cream, stir the sauce till it boils and let it boil for 20 minutes being careful to stir all the time. Pass it through a tammy and serve. FRENCH WHITE SAUCE (ANOTHER WAY). Ingredients.—Jib. of lean ham, Jib. of veal, 1 pint of milk, 1 gill of cream, 1 onion and carrot sliced, bunch of herbs, 2 or 3 peppercorns, salt, 2 cloves, a blade of mace, 4 mushrooms, loz. of butter, 1 tablespoonful of flour. Cut up the ham and veal in small pieces and put them into a saucepan with all the above ingredients with the exception of the butter and flour. Let the contents simmer gently for 1 hour. In another saucepan mix the butter and flour carefully together, then strain the milk into it and stir on the fire till it thickens. Add the cream, stirring it for another 10 minutes if it is of the proper thickness, if not it must be stiired over a sharp fire till it is the right consistency. FENNEL SAUCE.—SAUCE FENOUIL. Ingredients.—A handful of picked fennel leaves, J a pint of melted butter, pepper and salt, and lemon juice. Pick the leaves of the fennel from their stems, wash care- fully and put them in a saucepan, cover them with cold water, to which add a pinch of salt and soda. Bring the water to boiling point quickly, then strain and squeeze all the moisture from the leaves and mince them very finely. Mix them into a bain marie with the melted butter made hot, pepper and salt to taste, and lemon juice. Simmer for a minute or two and serve with mackerel. GERMAN SAUCE.—SAUCE ALLEMANDE. Ingredients.—\ a pint of while Veloute sauce, to which have been added some mushrooms, to each pint of sauce the126 yolks of 3 eggs, a dust of nutmeg when liked, 2 tablespoon- fuls of cream, a squeeze of lemon juice. Put the sauce into a stewpan, heat it and stir mto it the well beaten yolks of eggs, previously strained, stir over the fire till it simmers, but on no account let it boil or the eggs will curdle. Stir in the cream and lemon juice, stirring all the time, pass the sauce through a tammy into a basin when it is ready for use. This sauce is the foundation of many other favourite ones. GREEN SAUCE.—SAUCE RAVIGOTE. Ingredients.—A small handful of fresh parsley, of tarra- gon, of chervil, and of chives, 2 pats of butter, 3 washed and filletted anchovies, 1 teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar and the same of chili vinegar, lemon juice, salt and pepper to taste, ^ pint of allemande, Bechamel or mayonaise sauce. Wash and blanch the parsley, tarragon, chervil and chives (as in recipe for Fennel sauce) when blanched strain the water from them and rinse them in cold fresh water. Put them in a clean napkin and squeeze them in it to extract the water as much as possible. Now pound them in a mortar with the anchovies and butter,and when well pounded pass through a fine hair sieve. Now mix to this the' allemande, Bechamel or mayonaise sauce, add the tarragon and chili vinegar, lemon juice, salt and pepper. As this sauce is served cold it should be put in a cool place or on ice till wanted. If not a pretty colour, add a small eggspoonful of spinach green. This sauce is suitable for various kind of fish. GOOSEBERRY SAUCE.—SAUCE AUX GROSEILLES. Ingredients.—1 pint green gooseberries well picked, £ pint of Blonde or Bechamel sauce, pinch of pepper and salt, small lump of sugar. Throw the gooseberries into sufficient boiling water to blanch them, let them boil quickly for about 20 minutes tili they are quite tender, drain them on a sieve and rub them through a tammy or sieve. Put either of the above sauce* into a saucepan, add to it the gooseberry pulp, seasoning anc127 sugar, mix all together, heat and serve. This sauce is usually served with mackerel, but is delicious with roast ducklings. HARICOT SAUCE. Ingredients.—Equal quantities of turnips, carrots, and button onions, i pint of stock, cullis. Scoop the turnips and carrots, and peel the onions. Put the carrots on to boil in the stock J of an hour before the other vegetables, then let them all boil to a glaze. Add as much cullis as you require sauce, and serve. HAMBURG SAUCE.—GERMAN RECIPE Ingredients.—Equal quantities of mushrooms, onions,, pickled cucumber, and walnuts, carrots, stock, cullis. Cut the above in small dice and scrape the skin off the walnuts. Boil all together in a little stock until it comes to a glaze, then add as much cullis as you require sauce, give it one boil and serve. Excellent with chops or steaks. ITALIAN SAUCE (WHITE).—SAUCE BLANCHE ITALIENNE. Ingredients.—1 slice of very finely minced ham, & chopped truffles, and 3 chopped shallots, stock, Bechamel sauce, 3 tablespoonfuls of cream, seasoning of salt, squeeze of lemon juice, pinch of sugar, and when liked 2 drops of garlic vinegar. Put the ham, truffles, and shallots into a stewpan with sufficient stock and simmer for J of an hour. Add as much Bechamel as you require sauce, put in the cream and boil for 1 minute. Strain the sauce through a tammy, add the remainder of the ingredients and serve. SHALLOT KETCHUP. OLD RECIPE. Ingredients.—To one quart of shallots allow one quart of water, one handful of bay salt, pepper, allspice, cloves.1-2S Boil the shallots, water and salt on a slow fire till it boils half way, cover it close, then strain the liquor and boil it again, when half boiled away add the pepper, allspice, and cloves to your taste. When quite cold boil again, strain and bottle. It should be made in October. Shallot vinegar is made in a similar manner substituting vinegar for water. WALNUT KETCHUP. OLD RECIPE. Ingredients.—Walnuts, vinegar, to every gallon of walnut liquor allow 2 beads of garlic, \ a lb. of anchovies, 1 quart of port wine, 1 oz. of mace, 1 oz. of cloves, 1 oz. of long black Jamaica pepper, loz. of ginger. Put the walnuts which should be soft and green (pick them the middle of July) into stone jars, cover them with good strong cold vinegar, tie down tightly and let he for a year. Strain the liquor and to every gallon allow the above ingredients. Boil them all in the liquor till it is reduced to half. The next day strain and bottle it for use. The longer it is kept the better it is. The spices which have been strained from it, when dry, will be found strong and good and useful for many sauces. LOBSTER SAUCE—SAUCE D’HOMARD. Ingredients.—1 hen lobster, ^ a pint of melted butter, or the same quantity of Veloute sauce, 2oz. of butter, a table- spoonful of glaze, salt and cayenne to taste. A squeeze of lemon juice, 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, J of a pint of cream. Take the meat from the lobster shell, and cut into small square pieces. Pound the spawn in a mortar with the but- ter till smooth then pass it through a hair sieve. Put the melted butter or Veloute sauce into a stewpan and thoroughly mix with it the lobster, butter, glaze, salt, and cayenne, lbmon juice and cream. When all these ingredients are pro- perly incorporated add the lobster meat, let it get hot through but not boil, and serve.MARQUISE SAUCE.—SAUCE MARQUISE. Ingredients.—Jib. lean bam very finely minced with the bones of the pheasants (see collops of pheasants a la Mar- quise), 3 shallots, a faggot of thyme and parsley, 2 blades of mace, 1 pint of rich stock, loz. of butter, flour, 6 sliced truffles or mushrooms, a squeeze of lemon juice, and a pinch of sugar. Put the ham, pheasant bones, shallots, herbs, and stock, into a stewpan and place it on a stove to boil very slowly for 1 hour. Then strain it off. Put the butter in a stew- pan and when melted add sufficient flour to thicken it. Stir it for a few minutes over the fire and add to it the strained liquor. Let it boil for a few minutes and strain it through a tammy. Add the truffles, lemon juice end sugar, and use as required. MAYONNAISE SAUCE. LADY C.’S FRENCH CHEF. Ingredients.—Yolks of 2 eggs, the strained juice of a lemon, oil, vinegar, salt. Break the yolks of the eggs into a bowl with a pinch of salt, and the lemon juice. Add the oil drop by drop, stir- ring without ceasing which will soon cause the same to thicken, add the vinegar in like manner. More oil can be added, provided you keep the sauce to the right consistency. Keep on ice till required for use. MAYONNAISE SAUCE.—MAYONNAISE. . Ingredients.—The yolks of 2 raw eggs, salad oil, French vinegar, pepper and salt, 2 tablespoonfuls of clear aspic jelly a squeeze of lemon juice. ’ Put the eggs into a basin and place this in a pan contain- ing ice, or if that is not procurable, into verv cold water Season the eggs with a little pepper and salt and work them with a wooden spoon. Drop in very gradually a few drops of oil, then a few drops of vinegar to the proportion of say 6 tablespoonfuls of oil to 4 of vinegar. Keep stirring all the tune, and tho one way, till the quantity of sauce desired is130 produced. Add a little lemon juice which will whiten the same. Before serving add the aspic jelly melted (it must not be warm) to the mayonnaise. Stir till it is incorporated and the sauce is ready for use. If the aspic is omitted the same quantity of cream can be added. Tarragon vinegar can be used when the flavour is liked. •[MUSHROOM SAUCE.—SAUCE AUX CHAMPIGNONS. Ingredients.—| a pint of button mushrooms or some large - flap ones, ^ pint of brown sauce, a little Liebi" Company’s Extract. Cut off. the stalks of the mushrooms, wipe them clean with a piece of flannel, and if flap ones are used cut them in pieces. Put the sauce into a saucepan and stir it over the fire till it boils, then add the mushrooms and simmer gently from 10 to 15 minutes and serve. WHITE MUSHROOM SAUCE. Ingredients.—J of a pint of button mushrooms, § a pint of Bechamel or allemande sauce, lemon juice, and water, a pinch of castor sugar, loz. of butter. Prepare the mushrooms as in above recipe and whiten them by laying them in the lemon juice and water. Cut them in small pieces and put them in a stewpan with the butter till they are soft. Add the Bcichamel and simmer 5 or 6 minute* till they are sufficiently done but not ionger than is necessary as they would lose their colour. Rub the whole in a tammy, reheat in a bain marie and serve with boiled fowl, turkey, or any white entire. When wanted extra rich add a pint of cream. MAREY SAUCE.—SAUCE MAREY. OLD RECIPE. Ingredients.—4 washed and filletted anchovies, a tmte of gailic, 1 sprig of parsley, | a small teaspoonful of capers, mint to taste, oil, lemon juice, vinegar, pepper. Pound the anchovies, garlic, parsley, capers, and mint in a mortar, then add drop by drop sufficient oil to make131 the sauce the right consistency. To 4 tablespoonfuls of oil add one of vinegar and one of lemon juice. Season with pepper. Pass through a fine hair sieve and serve with cold fish. The proportion of vinegar and lemon juice can be increased or lessened according to taste. MONASTERY SAUCE.—SAUCE MONASTIQUE. CONVENT RECIPE. Inurements.—1 slice of toasted bread, 3 sliced apples, G burnt almonds, 1 clove of garlic, juice of an orange, red wine, and vinegar, pepper, and spices to taste. Dip the toasted bread in vinegar and put it in a saucepan with the apples, almonds, garlic, orange juice, pepper and spices. According to the quantity of sauce you require add equal parts of wine and vinegar, and let all boil till the apples are quite tender, then pass all through a hair sieve, reheat and serve with roast mutton. MAITRE D’HOTEL SAUCE. Inurements.—\ a pint of Bechamel sauce, a teaspoonful •of blanched and chopped parsley, 4oz. of fresh butter, juice of \ a lemon, pepper and salt to taste. Put the Bechamel in a stewpan, boil it and mix with it the butter, parsley, strained lemon juice, and seasoning. Serve with various kinds of fish, calf’s head and potatoes. PORT WINE SAUCE.—SAUCE D’OPORTO. Inurements.—1 pot of red currant jelly, 2 lumps of sugar, 1 wincglassful of port wine. Melt the jelly and sugar over the fire, add the wine and serve very hot. PRINTANNIERE SAUCE.—SAUCE PRINTANNIERE. Ingredients.—Melted butter, liquor in which a piece of salmon has been boiled, ravigotte sauce, wineglassfui cf white wine, yolk of one egg.132 Mix equal quantities of .melted butter, salmon liquor, and ravigotte sauce together, add the wine and stir in the yolk of egg at the last and serve. SALAD SAUCE.—REMOULADE. Ingredients.—The yolks of 4 hard-boiled eggs, 1 gill of salad oil, 1 tablepoonful of tarragon vinegar, seasoning of pepper and salt. Put the yolks in a mortar (keeping the whites for garnish- ing), pound them very smoothly and add to them very gradually the other ingredients and the oil drop by drop stirring all the time with the back of a wooden spoon. When mixed pass the same through a tammy into a basin and keep on ice till required. PINK SAUCE. OLD RECIPE. Ingredients.—1 quart of vinegar, \ a pint of red wine, loz. of cayenne pepper, 3 spoonfuls of walnut liquor, 4 ditto of anchovy liquor, 4 an oz. of cochineal finely powdered, 6 cloves of garlic cut open. Put all these ingredients into a pan or jar, and let them stand 3 or 4 days, Stirling the contents 4 times a day, then run the sauce through a flannel bag and bottle for use. QUIN SAUCE. EXCELLENT. Ingredients.—| a pint of mushroom ketchup, 4 a pint of walnut ditto, | a plat of lemon ditto, 1 pint of white wine vinegar, the eighth part of an ounce of pounded cochineal, 1 dozen very finely chopped anchovies, 6 cloves of garlic sliced, a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper (more or less, accord- ing to taste) 2 sliced nutmegs. Put all these ingredients into a large bottle and shake it well. In 24 hours strain it and it is ready for use. When it lies a month you may cask it off adding the same quan- tity of vinegar to the ingredients. Some people prefer simmering all the ingredients for 15 minutes, then straining and bottling off when cold. The above, however, is a genuine and tested old recipe.133 ROBERT SAUCE.—SAUCE ROBERT. Ingredients.—1 large Spanish onion or 3 small ones, 2oz. of butter, ^ pint of rich stock, 2 teaspoonfuls of made mustard, seasoning of pepper and salt, the juice of an orange, 1 teaspoonful of flour. After cutting the onion into dice, melt the butter in a stewpan and when browning throw in the onion, and iet them do a nice golden colour. Add the flour, shake the stewpan about, giving the contents another fry. Now add the stock and boil gently for 10 minutes. Carefully skim oif the fat, then put in the seasoning, mustard and orange juice, give one boil and serve. REINE SAUCE.—SAUCE A LA REINE. Ingredients.—1 fowl, ^lb. lean ham, 6 shallots, 2 blades of mace, 3J pints of rich white stock, \ pint of cream, 2oz. of butter, flour. Cut up the fowl and ham, also the shallots and put them into a stewpan with \ a pint of the stock, set it on a stove to simmer for of an hour, then add the remainder of the stock and boil for £ an hour and strain it off. Put the but- ter in a stewpan, and when melted add as much flour as will dry it up, then put to it the strained stock and the cream. Now boil it for a few minutes, strain through a tammy and use. SALAD SAUCE. ENGLISH. Ingredients.—1 raw egg, a saltspoonful of salt, a tear spoonful of 1 hickly made mustard, 3 tablespoonfuls of salad oil, vinegar. Beat the egg with the salt until it is quite smooth, then incorporate it with the mustard and when quite smooth add drop by drop the oil, being very careful that each drop is blended with the egg before adding more, this will make about a teacupful of sauce so thick that a teaspoon will stand up in it. Dilute with vinegar (which if strong should b9 mixed with water) till it becomes the consistency of134 thick cream, and it is ready. A teaspoonful of anchovy sauce can be added if liked. SALAD SAUCE. FRENCH. Ingredients.—3 or 4 tablespoonfuls of salad oil, loz. vinegar, seasoning of pepper and salt, some finely chopped tarragon and chervil. A salad bowl which has been rubbed with a shallot. Mix the oil, vinegar, pepper and salt well together, pour over the salad, mix, and on the top sprinkle the tarragon and chervil. SALMIS SAUCE. Ingredients.—The trimmings and carcases of 2 partridges or other game for which the sauce is intended, 1 slice of lean ham, 2 shallots, a bunch of sweet herbs, 3 cloves, 1 wineglassful of claret, the juice of | a lemon, loz. of butter, a little flour, common stock, one spooufu' of Liebig Company’s Extract. Chop up the carcases and put them with the trimmings into a small saucepan with the ham cut in small pieces, shalots, herbs, cloves, and pepper and salt. Add to these the wine and sufficient stock to cover the whole. Boil gently for 2 hours, and strain. Now melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour to this and mix well together, pour a little of the sauce on to this, stirring all the time, add the lemon juice and serve. SHARP SAUCE.—SAUCE PIQUANTE. Ingredients.—6 shalots, 3 gherkins, | a teaspoonful of capers, J pint of French or plain vinegar, a sprig of thyme, a bay leaf, § a carrot, a pinch of salt and mignonette pepper, ^ a pint of Espagnole sauce. Wash and cut up the shallots, slice the cai*rot and gherkins and put them into a stewpan with the capers, vinegar, thyme, bay leaf, and pepper. Let the whole boil on the fire till the vinegar is reduced to one third, then add the Espagnole sauce, set the stewpan on the side of the13b stove, and simmer gently for 15 minutes vo clear tbe sauce, skim it carefully, remove the thyme, aud bay leaf, strain through a sieve and serve very hot. TOURNEE SAUCE.—SAUCE TOURNEE. Ingredients.—Ham, 2 old fowls, knuckle of veal, 3 onions, faggot of thyme and parsley, 2 blades of mace, white stock, a handful of chopped mushrooms, 3 minced shallots, flour, butter. Cover the bottom of a stewpan with ham. Cut up the fowls and put them in with the veal, onions, herbs and mace. Add h a pint of white stock and draw it down on a stove but be very careful you do not let the contents catch at the bottom. When drawn down fill up the stewpan with white stock and let it boil rather more than an hour. Now put the mushrooms, shallots and 3 slices of ham all cut into small dice into a stewpan with a spoonful or more of stock, and to every quart allow 2oz. of butter, put the pan on the fire for | an hour to extract all the goodness from the ham, etc., then dredge in sufficient flour to thicken it. Now add to it the first stock previously strained, boil for a few minutes, strain through a tammy and serve. If the sauce is not perfectly white add as much cream as will make it so. TOMATO SAUCE. LADY C.’S FRENCH CHEF. Ingredients.—12 tomatoes, a good sized piece of butter, 4 large onions sliced, a glass of good stock, parsley, a laurel leaf, 2 cloves, a very little raisin wine, pepper and gait. Put the tomatoes and all the other ingredients into a saucepan and keep stirring all the time, when the tomatoes are thoroughly melted, and that the sauce is sufficiently thick, tammy it and serve. TOMATO SAUCE.—SAUCE AUX TOMATES. Ingredients.—6 tomatoes, 2 shallots, £ of a pint of gravy cayenne and salt to taste.136 Cut the tomatoes in two, having first removed the stalks, squeeze.out the seeds and juice, and place them in a stewpan with all the ingredients and simmer gently for an hour or more till the tomatoes are tender enough to puip. Rub the whole through a hair sieve, boil it up for a few minutes and serve. Thicken with flour and butter for a puree. TRUFFLE SAUCE.—SAUCE AUX TRUFFES. Ingredients.—1 shallot, 2oz. of butter, a very little flour, 2 truffles, \ of a pint of good stock, 1 wineglassful of white wine, pepper and salt to taste. Rub a saucepan with the shallot, melt the butter in it and mis in it a very little flour, add the truffles chopped, and moisten the whole with the stock, which should he per- fectly free from fat, and the wine. Season with pepper and salt. Let the sauce simmer for 10 or 15 minutes and serve. TARTARE SAUCE. Ingredients.—Yolks of 4 eggs, a saltspoonful of salt, a small teaspoonful of French mustard, pepper to taste, olive oil, tarragon vinegar, 2 tablespoonfuls (in all) of very finely chopped gherkin, shallot and capers. Put the yolks of the eggs into a basin with the salt and mustard, then stir in a tablespoonful of oil and then | a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar alternately and gradually till the sauce is of the right consistency, add the gherldn, shallot, and capers and serve. It is best to mix this sauce over pounded ice, and chopped tarragon, chervil and 4 a shallot can be used instead of gherkin and capers. VILLEROI SAUCE.—SAUCE VILLEROI. Ingredients.—1 large tablespoonful of flour, loz. of but- ter, \ a pint of white stock, 1 tablespoonful each of finely minced lean ham, mushrooms, and truffles, the yolks of 2 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream.137 Put the flour in a saucepan with the butter, and mix well together, add the stock, and stir well on the fire for 7 or 3 minutes, then put in the ham, mushrooms and truffles. Boil for 20 minutes and strain through a sieve, add the eggs well beaten up, the cream, and put on the fire for a minute, but •do not let the contents boil. It will then be ready to serve. YELOUTE SAUCE.—'YELOUTE. Ingredients.—1 young fowl, a knuckle of veal, 2 slices of lean ham or bacon, 1 sliced onion, 1 cut carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, Jib. of fresh butter, 2oz. of flour, white stock. Cut up the fowl in neat joints, the ham in dice and put them with the veal, carrot, and onion, into a stewpan, mois- ten with a pint of white stock, keep tossing on the fire for J an hour, being careful that the contents do not take colour. Now add sufficient stock to cover the whole and simmer gently for 2 hours. Skim and strain the sauce, and reduce it by boiling quickly till it is nearly a jelly. Melt the butter in a saucepan, mix the flour with it without letting the mixture take any colour. Strain the veloute gradually into it. Now set the stewpan at the edge of the fire to simmer for 1 hour and a half, skimming the contents carefully. When this is done turn out the sauce into a basin, stirring it till cold. Put aside till wanted. It will keep good for several days, but must for this purpose be warmed up every day VENETIAN SAUCE.—SAUCE SAN MARCO. Ingredients.—1 calf’s kidney, 2 tablespoonfuls of pis- tachio nuts, juice of J a lemon, pepper, salt, and powdered spices to taste. Roast the kidney, preserving the gravy, mince it finely, and pound it in a mortar with the pistachio nuts. Pass it through a hair sieve, then put the mixture in a saucepan, moisten it with its own gravy, and the lemon juice, season with salt, pepper, and spices. Bring the sauce to boiling point, strain and serve. If there is not sufficient gravy from the kidney to make sauce, add as much ordinary gravy as required. Serve with veal, sweetbread or poultry.138 VERONA SAUCE.—SAUCE A LA VERONESE. Ingredients.—\ pint of tarragon vinegar, 4 lumps of sugar, 2 bay leaves, thin rind of a lemon, pepper, salt, and spice to taste, 1 tablespoonful of flour, loz. of butter. Put the vinegar in a saucepan, cover with the lid, and boil for J of an hour with the sugar, bay leaves, rind of lemon, and pepper, salt, and spices. In another saucepan mix the flour and butter all together, pour on to this the prepared vinegar. Stir well for 2 minutes, and serve very hot with venison, mutton, wild duck or game. WHITE SAUCE.—SAUCE BLANCHE. Ingredients.—loz. of butter, 1 dessert spoonful of flour,. 1 pint of milk, the yolk of an egg, the juice of \ lemon, pepper and salt to taste. Melt the butter, add to it the flour and mix, season with salt and pepper, stir these ingredients on the fire for 2 minutes, now add the milk, and keep on stirring for 4 or 5 minutes. When ready to serve stir in the yolk of egg beaten up with the lemon juice strained.Section VIII. VEGETABLES.141 VEGETABLES. ASPARAGUS RAGOUT.—RAGOUT D’ASPERGES. Ingredients.—3 or 4 dozen good sized asparagus, 2oz. of butter, a bunch of herbs, 2 green onions, 2oz. of flour, the yolks of 2 eggs, J of a pint of cream, small lump of sugar, salt to taste. Cut off the asparagus tops and boil them till quite tender, then put them aside till required. Carefully wash and scrape the stalks, put them in a stewpan with the butter, herbs, and onions, finely chopped, cover the pan and let these ingredients simmer by the side of the fire for 15 minutes. Now add the flour and sugar and moisten with, boiling water or common stock. Let the vegetables cook till quite tender, then rub through a hair sieve. Thicken the ragout with the eggs beaten up with the cream, season with salt, mix well, and when required for use heat in a bain marie. Serve in a pile with the asparagus tops arranged round the dish as a garnish. ARTICHOKES AND MUSHROOMS.—FONDS D’ARTICHAUXS AUX CHAMPIGNONS. Ingredients.—Artichoke bottoms and large mushrooms (I for each person), butter and flour, pepper and salt to taste, 3 tablespoonfuls of cream. Clean the mushrooms, peel them and remove the stalks, on each artichoke, place a mushroom and put them into a stewpan with a little veal, chicken or rabbit stock, season with salt and stew gently for 15 to 20 minutes. Thicken the stock with a little butter rolled in flour, add the cream and boil for 2 minutes and serve very hot, pouring the sauce round the dish.142 ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS A LTTALIENNE.—FONDS D’ARTICHAUX A LTTALIENNE. Ingredients.—Artichoke bottoms, common stock, brown Italian sauce. Soak tbe artichoke bottoms in warm water, change the water several times and when they are quite tender trim them neatly and put them into a stewpan with a little stock, make them hot, then dish them and pour the Italian sauce over. ARTICHOKES A LA VICTORIA.—ARTICHAUXS A LA VICTORIA. Ingredients. — Artichoke bottoms, picked shrimps, mayonnaise sauce, aspic jelly. Pound the shrimps in a mortar with 1 or 2 tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise sauce, when quite smooth pass through a sieve. Put a layer of this mixture on each prepared arti- choke bottom, smooth it with a palette knife dipped in hot water. Cover each artichoke with a thin coating of aspic jelly, and when this is set arrange on the top of each a pretty pattern of hard-boiled white of egg and truffle. Set this again in aspic, and when quite cold serve on a bed of mustard and cress. Pounded chicken, rabbit, veal, or Ger- man sausage can be used instead of shrimps, but in using the latter omit the mayonnaise sauce. Send up as an entree or second course. FRENCH BEANS A LA FRANCAISE.—HARICOTS VERTS A LA FRANCAISE. * Ingredients.—French beans, 3 or 4oz. of fresh butter, pepper and salt to taste, a very little sugar. Cut and boil the beans in the usual manner and when quite tender drain them in a colander. Now put them into a stewpan, shake them over the fire to diy up their mois- ture, and when quite hot and dry add the butter, pepper, salt, and sugar. Toss the whole together over the fire till143 the butter is melted and all is hot, and serve. Young carrots cooked this way are very nice, but the sugar should be omitted. French beans a la Maitre d’Hotel are dressed in the same manner as above with the addition of a tablei- spoonful of chopped and parboiled parsley and the juice of | a lemon added before serving CARROTS A LA PROVENCALE.—CARROTTES A LA * PROVENCALE. » Ingredients.—Carrots, maccaroni, 3 oz. of butter, pepper and salt, a rich gravy, or Maitre d’Hotel sauce. Boil the carrots and maccaroni separately. Butter some small plain moulds, or one large one, and coil the maccaroni round and round. Mash the carrots, mix with the butter, pepper and salt to taste, fill the moulds or mould with this mixture. Steam for a few minutes and serve with the gravy or sauce poured round. CARROTS A LA SANS SOUCIE.—CARROTTES A LA SANS SOUCIE. Ingredients.—1 pint of carrots scooped to the size of peas, rich stock, eullis. Boil the carrots in sufficient stock till it is reduced to a glaze, add as much eullis as you want sauce, and serve with boiled mutton. CUCUMBERS A LA MADRIGAL.—CONCOMBRES A LA MADRIGAL. Ingredients.—6 cucumbers, forcemeat, rich stock, eullis, juice of £ a lemon, a pinch of pepper, sugar and Balt. Peel the cucumbers very evenly, scoop all the seeds out with a vegetable scoop, then fill the cucumbers with force- meat. Now put them into a stewpan with sufficient stock, «nd let them simmer gently till quite tender. Take them144 out of the stewpan, dish them, and pour over them a sauce made with the liquor they were boiled in, cullis, lemon, and seasoning. CAULIFLOWER AND CHEESE.—CHOUXFLEURS AU GRATIN. Ingredients.—1 or 2 cauliflowers, J a pint of cheese sauce, 3 table spoonfuls of bread crumbs. Cleanse the cauliflowers in the usual manner, and trim away all the green part and cut off the stalk flat at the bottom. Boil till quite tender in salt and water. Then drain well and stand the cauliflower on a dish with the flowers standing upright. Mask the cauliflower entirely with the sauce, smoothing it with a palette knife dipped in hot water. Cover the top with grated parmesan cheese. Place the cauliflower in the oven for 10 to 15 minutes to gratinate, and when the top has taken a nice golden colour, serve very hot. ENDIVE A LA DAUPHINE.—CHICOREE A LA DAUPHINE. Ingredients.—As many heads of endive as required, 6 will make a dish for 5 people, Jib. fresh butter, 2 gills of cream, 2 tablespoonfuls of Bechamel sauce, a very little nutmeg salt, 1 small teaspoonful of pounded sugar, 1 tea- spoonful of strained lemon juice. Remove all the outer leaves and carefully wash the endive, being particular to cleanse it from insects which are gener- ally found in the inner leaves. Now put it into a stewpan half full of boiling water, to which has been added a hand- ful of salt, boil fast till quite tender, then drain in a colander. Next put the endive in plenty of cold water and after squeez- ing out the moisture chop it very fine and pass through a coarse wire sieve. Put it into a stewpan with the butter, nutmeg and salt, and stir over the fire for 10 minutes, then add the cream, Bechamel sauce, sugar and lemon juice, boil over a brisk fire till the sauce is reduced, pile the endive on a dish and serve very hot.145 MUSHROOMS A LA POMPADOUR.—CHAMPIGNONS A LA POMPADOUR. Ingredients.—Flap mushrooms, 2 pints of mushrooms for stuffing, 1 handful of parsley, 2 shallots, 2oz. of fat bacon, 2oz. of lean ham, pepper, salt, bread crumbs, the yolks of 4 eggs, brown Italian sauce. After cleaning the mushrooms cut off the stalks, peel and trim them neatly. Next chop up the 2 pints of mushrooms, parsley, and shallot, also the bacon and ham very finely, season with pepper and salt. Fry these ingredients over the fire for 5 or 6 minutes, then stir in the eggs, and when mixed fill each mushroom with this mixture, shake over each some bread crumbs and put them into the oven to brown for \ of an hour. Serve very hot with Italian sauce poured round the dish. STEWED MUSHROOMS.—CHAMPIGNONS A LA MARGUERITE. Ingredients.—Mushrooms, juice of a lemon, 2oz. of bub- ter, cullis, pepper and salt. Teel the mushrooms very thinly and put them into water with the lemon juice. Put the butter into a stewpan, add the mushrooms, pepper, and salt, and set the pan over a fire to do very slowly for 15 minutes, add as much cullis as you want sauce, and serve very hot. STEWED PEAS A LA FRA NCAISE.—PETITS POIS * A LA FRANCAISE. > Ingredients.—1 quart of young peas, 5oz. of fresh but- ter, a bunch of parsley, 6 green onions, a teaspoonful of pounded sugar, a little salt, a tablespoonful of flour. Put the peas into a pan with 3oz. of butter and plenty of cold water, and shake them about till they are well covered with the butter, then drain them in a colander and put them in a stewpan with the parsley, onions, sugar, and salt. Put the lid on and stew the peas gently for h an14G hour. Wien done if there is any liquor remaining boii it down over a quick fire. Mix the remainder of the butter and flour, and work them together, add this to the peas, toss the whole together till well mixed, pile high on a dish, and serve very hot. SPINACH.—PADRE F.’S RECIPE FOR LENT. Ingredients.—Spinach, Bechamel sauce, 3 tablespooniuls of cream, pinch of pepper and salt, eggs, vinegar and water, fried croutons. Boil the spinach, then squeeze it as dry as possible, next chop it very fine, the finer the better, put it into a stewpan with sufficient Bechamel (see Sauces) the cream, pepper and salt, and keep stirring it with a wooden spoon till it is per- fectly smooth. Keep the spinach warm in a bain marie and poach the eggs in boiling water, vinegar, and a little salt for 3 minutes. Take them out, trim them, and dish them and the croutons alternately round the spinach. N.B.—It is better when the water is quite boiling to poach the eggs in it off the fire. POTATOES WITH PARSLEY SAUCE.—POMMES DE TERRE A LA MAITRE D’HOTEL. Ingredients.—Small potatoes, £ of a pint of white sauce, 2oz. of fresh butter, pepper and salt to taste, chopped parsley, 1 tablespoonful of strained lemon juice. Boil the potatoes in salt and water and when done cut them in slices, the eighth of an inch thick, put them into a etewpan with the sauce, butter, pepper, salt, parsley (allow a small teaspoonful to every 6 potatoes), and lemon juice. Toss all these ingredients over the fire till thoroughly mixed, then pile the potatoes high on a dish and serve very hot. POTATO MARBLES. Ingredients.—Potatoes, 4oz. of fresh butter, 1 teaspoon- ful of salt.147 Cut the potatoes with a vegetable cutter to the size ot ■marbles. Put them in a saucepan with the butter and salt. Put on the lid of the saucepan and toss the potatoes about •over the fire occasionally until they are quite done and of a nice golden colour which will take about an hour. Pile up high on a dish and serve. SAVOURY POTATOES. Ingredients.—Large potatoes, chopped onion, minced parsley, butter, pepper and salt. Wash the potatoes in lukewarm water and scrub them well, put them into a moderate oven and cook them from ii hours to 2 hours according to siza When done cut the potatoes in half and scoop out all the mealy part, being careful not to break the skin. 'When all is scooped out put it into a mortar with the butter, onion, parsley, pepper and salt and pound well together. When quite smooth fill each half potato skin with this mixture, criss-cross the tops with a fork, and put* the potatoes into the oven till the tops acquire a nice golden colour then serve very hot in a napkin. POTATOES.—TOMMES DE TERRE A L’ELEGANTE. Ingredients.—To every 2 large potatoes allow 3 yolks and 2 whites of eggs a tablespoonful of cream, a teaspoon- ful of strained lemon juice, and a dust of nutmeg, lard. Peel the potatoes and boil them tender, next beat the yolks and whites of eggs to a stiff froth add them with the cream and lemon juice to the potatoes, season with nutmeg and beat altogether for quite J an hour. Wnen this batter is extremely light and smooth, put the lard into a stewpan and drop a spoonful of the batter at a time into it when it is quite boiling. Take out each portion when it takes a nice golden colour, drain on kitchen paper and serve very hot with fried parsley as a garnish.148 SPINACH.— EPINARDS. Ingredients.—31bs. of spinach, 3oz. of fresh butter, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, a small teaspoonful of pounded *ugar, pepper, and salt to taste, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream nr milk. Pick and wash the spinach perfectly clean and put it in a taucepan with about \ a pint of water and let it boil till quite tender for from 10 to 15 minutes, now drain it in a coiander, squeeze it quite dry, and chop it very finely. Next pass the spinach through a hair sieve. Put the butter in a saucepan, fry it a light brown, add the flour, ard mix veil together. .Put to this mixture the spinach, pepper, salt, sugar, and butter, and stir altogether over the lire till the butter has dried away. Add the cream little by little, stirring all the time for 10 minutes with a wooden spoon and serve, garnished with fried croutons or hard-boiled eggs- *.ut in quarters. SALSIFIS A LA MAITRE D’HOTEL.—SALSIFIS A LA. MAITRE D’HOTEL. Ingredients.—Salisfy roots, vinegar, salted water, 2oz. of butter, a teaspoonful of lemon juice, pepper, Maitre d’Hotel sauce. Carefully scrape the roots till the salsifies become white, cut them up into inch lengths and throw them into a pan of cold water, to which add a twentieth part of vinegar. Then boil them till tender in hot salted water with the but- ter, lemon juice and pepper to taste. When done drain them on a sieve and put them in a stewpan with sufficient Maitre d’Hotel sauce to cover them. Toss them over the fire, dish them up in a pyramid and garnish with fried croutons. It will take 30 to 40 minutes to boil the salsifies. SCALLOPED SALSIFIES. — SALSIFIS AU COQUILLES. Ingredients.—Salsifies, white sauce, anchovy sauce, pep- per to taste, a few drops of lemon juice, breadcrumbs. Boil the salsifies as above and cut them into pieces 4 an inch long, put the salsifies in sufficient white sauce, coloured149 a pretty pink with anchovy, toss them over a fire, then fill each scallop shell with this mixture. Squeeze a few dropB of lemon juice on each, sprinkle the bread crumbs over, and put the shells into the oven to brown. CELERY SALAD.—SALADE DE CELERI. Ingredients.—3 heads of celery, hard boiled eggs, and if procurable 2 fresh truffles, English salad sauce. Wash and clean the celery, choose the inner and tenderest stalks, and cut them in strips an inch long. Rub a salad bowl very slightly with garlic or shallot. Pour sufficient sauce into the bowl to mix well with the celery, and when amalgamated, garnish with the hard-boiled eggs and truffles cut in slices. CHICKEN SALAD.—SALADE DE YOLAILLE. Ingredients.—1 cold roast or boiled chicken, 1 cucumber, mustard and cress, a few sliced radishes, beetroot, 2 let- tuces, remoulade sauce. Cut the chicken in neat pieces and put them in the centre of an entree dish, v hen the lettuces are washed and dried and picked in convenient sized pieces, place them round the chicken, pour the remoulade sauce over the chicken and salad, and garnish with sliced beetroot and cucumber, and hard boiled white of egg. CHERRY SALAD.—SALADE DE CERISSES. Ingredients.—Cherries, salad oil, vinegar, tarragon and chervil. Stone the cherries, and mix them with the oil and vinegar, and finely chopped tarragon and chervil. Excellent with roast ducklings, quails or Bordeaux pigeons.150 CONTINENTAL SALAD. GENUINE GERMAN RECIPE. Mince equal proportions of cold roast veal, raw herring,, apple, cucumber, hard boiled egg and mixed pickles. Mu with shred lettuce and a little vinegar. ENDIVE SALAD.—SALADE DE CHICOREE. Ingredients.—2 heads of endive, French salad sauce. Thoroughly wash and clean the endive, and free it from its outside leaves. Mix it well with French salad sauce to which may be added when liked, a very little finely chopped onion. LETTUCE SALAD.—SALADE DE LAITUE. Lettuce salad can be dressed with either French, English, or mayonnaise sauce, and can be made entirely of lettuce or mixed with beetroot, watercress, tomato and mustard and cress. In making salads bear in mind that to be a success the vegetables used must be perfectly dry, in order to achieve this squeeze them in a hot clean napkin till all mois- ture is extracted. Never cut lettuce but tear it in pieces with the fingers. Finally never pom’ the sauce over the salad till just required to serve, as if the salad is left long in the sauce it will lose all its crispness. ITALIAN SALAD.—SALADE IT ALIENEE. Ingredients.—1 or 2 heads of cauliflower, an equal quan- tity, when in season, of asparagus points, ditto of French beans, \ a pint of green peas, 3 artichoke bottoms, a few new potatoes, some young carrots, seasoning of tarragon, and chervil, tartar or mayonnaise sauce. When all the vegetables are boiled and coldj cut them up in any pretty fancy shape with a vegetable cutter, the caidi- flower should be cut up in small tufts. Season the vege- tables with a litle tarragon, chervil, oil, and vinegar. Put the vegetables in a glass salad bowl and mix with a suffi- cient quantity of sauce, serve very cold.151 RUSSIAN SALAD.—SALADE RUSSE. Ingredients.—A small cupful each of cut carrots, turnips, beetroot, truffles, asparagus points, or green peas, 2 tabie- spoonfuls of capers, the same of pickled gherkins, Allotted anchovies, 1 dozen stoned olives, | a tablespoonful of finelv minced tarragon and chervil, and if liked a very little minced shallot, salad sauce. Boil the vegetables and when cold cut them out in small pieces with a vegetable cutter, likewise the truffles. Cut the gherkins in the shape of peas, also the anchovies (pre- viously cleaned) in small pieces, and the olives. Put all these in a glass salad bowl and mix with any salad, sauce preferred. On the top sprinkle the tarragon and chervil, and garnish with Allotted anchovies, olives, and chopped aspic. TOMATO SALAD A L’EUGENIE.—TOMATES A L’EUGENIE. Ingredients.—Tomatoes, celery, finely chopped tarragon, chervil, and parsley, a very little chopped shallot, pepper and salt, mayonnaise sauce. Choose some nice round tomatoes as much the same size as possible, cut a piece off the top of each and remove the stalks and pips. Season the insides with a little tarra- gon, chervil, parsley, and shallot, all of which should be veiy finely minced. Shred the celery and keep it in water till it is quite crisp. When quite dry fill the centre of the tomatoes with it and cover w ith mayonnaise stauce. Dish the tomatoes on an entree dish and pile high in the centre a nicely mixed celery or lettuce salad dressed with mayonnaise or French salad sauce. STUFFED TOMATOES.—TOMATES FARCIES. Ingredients.—Tomatoes, 10 shallots, £lb. of mushrooms for every 12 tomatoes, bread crumbs, parsley, pepper and salt, 2 tablespoonfuls of olive oil, 2oz. of butter. Cut a round piece off the top of each tomato and with a teaspoon remove the pips and put them on one side. Mince the shallots very finely, then the mushrooms. Rut the shallots in a saucepan with the butter and tosB them152 about, when they are done add the mushrooms, minced parsley, pepper, salt, and sufficient bread crumbs to make a thick paste. Strain the pips and moisten this mixture with their juice. Then divide it into as many portions as there are tomatoes and insert a portion into each tomato. Put on the piece cut from the top and place the tomatoes in a dish, pour over them the olive oil, bake in the oven for | an hour, and serve very hot. ORANGE SALAD.—SALADE D’ORANGES. Ingredients.—12 oranges, 2 dessertspoonfuls of brandy, 2 dessertspoonfuls of oil, b a teaspoonful or one of castor sugar, according to taste, a teaspoonful each of fint’y chopped tarragon and chervil. Peel the oranges, carefully remove every particle of pith and skin, divide into liths, sprinkle over each the tarragon and chervil, put them into a glass salad bowl, add the other ingredients, mix and put upon ice for an hour. Serve with hot ham, wild duck, or teal, &c. PRAWN SALAD.—SALADE DE CREVETTES. Ingredients.—Prawns, lettuce, sauce. Shell the prawns, put them in a bowl with shred lettuce, *nd mix together with remouladei, mayonnaise or English aalad sauce. The prettiest way of serving, however, is to turn out a border mould of aspic jelly and pile the prawn salad in the centre. Shrimps can be treated in the same way. TURNIPS A LA WILLIAM.—NAVETS A LA WILLIAM. Ingredients.—Turnips, white braise, Bechamel sauce, pepper and salt. Boil the turnips in the braise (see Soups), and when done take them out and squeeze them as dry as possible, now rub them through a tammy and put them into a stewpan with a little Bechamel. Put the pan on the fire and keep stirring the contents till they are quite hot, add the season- ing and serve.Section IX. PICKLES.155 PICKLES. APPLE CHUTNEY PICKLE. OLD INDIAN RECIPE. Ingredients.—24 sour apples, 1 quart of vinegar, 4 cloves of garlic, 1 teaspoonful of cayenne pepper (or less, accord- ing to taste) a small teaspoonful of salt, 2 leaves of mint. Peel the apples, chop them, the mint, and garlic very line, steep them in the vinegar seasoned with cayenne and pepper for 12 hours. Mix these ingredients well together and bottle. If kept in a dry place this pickle will keep good for years. PICKLED FRENCH BEANS.—HARICOTS VERTS MARINES. Ingredients.—For every 21bs. of very young French beans allow 1 quart of the best vinegar, loz. of salt, loz. of peppercorns and loz. of bruised ginger. Wipe and string the beans, put them into a deep dish or pan and covpr them with boiling salted water. Leave them till the next day, then drain them and wipe them quite dry. Now put the beans into a stone jar. Boil the vinegar with the salt, peppercorns, and ginger, and when quite boiling pour it over the beans. Next day boil the vinegar again and if the beans are green they are ready to bottle, but if not the same operation must be gone through for one or two days. When finished leave till cold, then cork tightly and tie down with bladder. PICKLED BEETROOT.—BETTERAVES MARINEE8. Ingredients—Beetroots, to every quart of vinegar, loz. of peppercorns, a blade of mace, h an ounce of scraped horse radish and h an oz. of salt.156 Boil the beetroot and when nearly cold remove the skin and slice thinly. According to size they will take from an hour and a | to 2 hours. Put them into jars and cover them with cold vinegar which has been previously boiled with the peppercorns, mace, horse radish, and salt. TICKLED CAULIFLOWER.—CHOUXFLEU RS MARINES. Ingredients.—Cauliflowers for 4 quarts of vinegar, a tablespoonful of mace, 1 of cloves, of white peppercoraR, of ground ginger, and allspice. Divide the flowers into tufts, steep them in brine for two days, then drain them and wipe them dry. Put them into jars, fill up with boiling vinegar which has been boiled with the above proportion of seasoning. Leave tili cold. Cork and tie down with bladder. PICKLED RED CABBAGE.—CHOUX MARINES. Ingredients.—Red cabbage, to every quart of vinegar allow loz. of peppercorns, loz. of mustard seed, £ an oz of grated horseradish, h an oz. of ground ginger, and | an oz. of salt. Shred the cabbage finely, lay it on a dish and cover it with salt for 2 days. Drain it and shake it so that the brine may run off, or place it between two cloths and press the brine off lightly. Put the pickles into jars and cover with cold vinegar, previously boiled with the given seasonings. PICKLED GHERKINS.—CORNICHONS MARINES. Ingredients.—Gherkins, to every quart of vinegar allow loz. of salt, loz. of peppercorns, and loz. of mustard seed. Put the gherkins into a dish and cover with well salted boiling water, and leave till the next day. Take them out, then drain and wipe dry. Put into jars and cover with the seasoned boiling vinegar. Next day drain the vinegar157 from the gherkins, boil it and when boiling put in the gher- kins and keep boiling for 2 minutes. Put into jars and when cold cork and tie down tightly. GERMAN DELIGHT. OLD RECIPE FROM BARON DE V. Ingredients.—Large white heart cabbages, juniper ber- ries, salt, 1 pint of rich stock, 1 pint of Rhenish wine, pickled pork. It should be prepared 8 or £ months before being re- quired Cut all the green leaves from the cabbage, and slice tho heart in thin slices, sprinkle salt over them, now put a layer of cabbage into a tub (the size must be accord- ing to the number of cabbages you want to pickle), then some juniper berries, another layer of cabbage and berries, and proceed in the same way till the tub is full. Now put a very heavy weight on the tub, the heavier the better, as this wid press the liquor from the cabbage. As the liquor rises pour it off and prepare the cabbage in this manner 3 months before it is wanted. When wanted for use, wash it m several waters and remove the juniper berries, then dress it in stock and wine, put the pork on it, stew on a slow fire for 5 hours and serve with the pork dished on it. Most excellent. INDIAN PICKLE.—MARINADE A LTNDIENNE. Ingredients.—Equal proportions of cauliflowers, French beansty radish pods, small round onions, and beetroot. To every quart of vinegar allow loz. of bruised ginger, loz. of peppercorns, \ an oz. of cayenne pods, 6 cloves, loz. of mustard seed. Divide the cauliflower into tufts, skin the beetroot and cut in thin slices, and cut tho remainder of the vegetables in convenient pieces. Lay them on a dish, cover with salt and leave for two days. Then drain them thoroughly, wipe dry and put into jars. Boil the vinegar with the above in- gredients, arid when quite boiling pour over the vegetables. W hen cold cork and tie down with bladder.158 PICKLED MUSHROOMS.—CHAMPIGNONS MARINES. Ingredients.—Small button mushrooms, to every quart ol mushrooms allow loz. of salt, loz. of whole pepper, 3 cloves, a very little mace, vinegar. Clean the mushrooms thoroughly with a piece of flannel dipped in vinegar. Put them on a dish and sprinkle them over with, salt and leave them for 12 hours. Then put them into an iron saucepan with the salt, pepper, cloves, and mace. Let them stew very gently over the fire till they have produced a great deal of liquor. Let them stand by the fire till all the liquor is absorbed again, shak- ing the pan now and again to prevent the mushrooms stick- ing to the pan. Put them into wide-necked bottles and pour cold vinegar previously boiled over them. If in a week’s time the vinegar should have dried away add a little more. As in all pickles the vinegar should be two or three inches above the vegetables or they will not keep. • Cork the bottles tightly. PICKLED NASTURTIUM SEEDS. AN EXCELLENT SUBSTITUTE FOR CAPERS. Ingredients.—Nasturtium seeds, to every quart of vinegar loz. of peppercorns, and loz. of salt. Gather the nasturtium seeds when very young. Steep them in salt and water then take them out and put them in boiling salt and water for 1 minute. Put them into dry jars and cover with the seasoned vinegar. Cover closely and in a week they will be ready for use. The vinegar can be seasoned in various ways according to taste. PICKLED ONIONS.—OIGNONS MARINES. Ingredients.—For 2 quarts of small white round onions, allow 2oz. of peppercorns, 2 or 3 cayenne pods, loz. of salt, vinegar. Scald the onions in strong salt and water. Just let them boil, strain and peel. Put them in glass jars and159 cover with vinegar. Leave for 2 days, then pour off the vinegar and boil it with the above ingredients for £ an hour. When cold pour over the onions and tie down tightly. PICKLED OYSTERS.—HUITRES MARINES. Ingredients.—Oysters, to every quart of oyster liquor allow a small teacupful of vinegar, and a teaspoonful of peppercorns. Wash and scald the oysters in enough strong salt and water to cover them. Take them out and put them into fresh cold water. Now drain them and put them into stone jars. Boil the oyster liquor with the vinegar and pepper- corns and when quite cold pour over the oysters and seal down tightly. PICKLED RADISH PODS.—COSSE DE RADIS MARINES. Ingredients.—Radish pods, to every quart of vinegar 2oz. of peppercorns, loz. of salt, \ of an oz. of cayenne pods. Gather the pods on a dry day. Put them in a strong pickle of cold water and bay salt. Let them lay in this for a week with a board placed upon them. Now diain them and dry. Put them in jars and cover with the pre- pared vinegar boiling hot. Cover with a thickly folded cloth and leave for 2 days. Then pom" off the vinegar, boil it again and pour it boiling over the radish pods. Ginger, mace,, arid cloves, can be used as seasoning when liked and the cayenne pod omitted. GREEN TOMATO PICKLE.—TOMATES MARINERS. Ingredients.—For every 71bs. of tomatoes allow 3 rather small onions, \ a breakfastcupful of brown sugar, 2 chillies, loz. of cloves, loz. of ground ginger, \ an oz. of allspice, \ an oz. of mace, | an oz. of scraped horse radish. Cut the tomatoes and onions in thin slices, lay them in a deep dish and cover with salt and water. Let them stand160 all night. Next day pour off the brine, drain them. well. Put them in a preserving kettle with the sugar and all the seasoning, cover the whole with vinegar and simmer very gently for 3 or 4 hours. When cold bottle. Mixed tomato pickle can be made by adding cucumber, cauliflower, and •white cabbage. PICKLED WALNUTS.—NOIX MARINES. Ingredients.—Pickled walnuts, to every quart of vinegar allow loz. of black pepper, loz. of ginger, loz. of salt, and loz. of mustard seed, loz. of cloves, and when liked loz. of shallot. Gather the walnuts young, a pin should easily pierce them. Make a strong brine of salt and water, put the walnuts in this, and leave them in it. for 10 days. Change the twice and stir the walnuts once a day. Now drain them on a hair sieve, lay them on dishes and place them in a very airy place, or better still, if possible, in the open air till they turn black. Put them into jars. Boil the vinegar with the sea- sonings,and pour immediately over the walnuts. Some people prefer to boil the vinegar 3 times, allowing it to get cold between each time, and pouring it cold on the walnuts. The walnuts will be ready for use in 2 months.Section X. CONFECTIONERY.163 CONFECTIONERY. BATH BUNS. Ingredients.—ljlb. of flour, Jib. of sifted sugar, Jib. ■of butter, the yolks of 4 and the whites of 3 eggs, loz. of good yeast, carraway comfits, candied peel. Put Jib. of flour, eggs, and yeast into a bowl, and beat the mixture well, set it before the fire to rise. Then into the remainder of the flour rub in the butter, add the sugar, a few comfits and some sliced candied peel (a very little suffices). When the eggs and yeast are well risen mix all together by degrees. Throw a cloth over it and set it again before the fire to rise. Shape into buns, lay them on a buttered tin, brush them over with yolk of egg and milk, arrange a few comfits on the top and bake for about 20 minutes in a quick oven. HOT CROSS BUNS. Ingredients.—21bs. of flour, Jib. of castor sugar, Jib. of butter, 2oz. of yeast, 1 pint of lukewarm milk, J an oz. of mixed spice, 3oz. each, of currants and sultanas, 1 or 2 ■eggs. Mix the milk, yeast, and egg together, and when this is done add the flour and knead to a dough. Now set the basin in a warm place, and cover it with a cloth to let the dough rise for 1J to 2 hours. Now add the fruit, and shape into buns, place them on buttered tins to rise for J an hour. Brush them over lightly with milk, make a ■cross on them with the back of a knife and bake in a quick oven for 15 to 20 minutes. BRANDY SNAPS. Ingredients.—Jib. of the best Vienna flour, f of a lb. of •the best Demarara sugar, J a lb. of golden syrup.164 Pass the flour through a sieve, add the sugar, mix these ingredients, then make a hole in the centre with your fincrer and pour in the golden syrup. Mix all well together. Have ready a floured board and roll out the mixture on it very thinly, using the least quantity of flour while doing so, as possible. Now cut out in rounds the size of a tum- bler and bake in a fairly warm oven for 10 minutes. Whiie warm turn the snaps round a thick stick or rolling pin and serve for afternoon tea or dessert. If kept in a tin they will keep crisp a long tune. CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. Ingredients.—4oz. of the best chocolate, ^ of a pint of hot cream, l£lb. of sifted castor sugar, 3 or 4 drops essence of vanilla. Grate the chocolate very fine, mix it with the cream. Keep stirring until it is perfectly smooth. Add the sugar and vanilla. Put this mixture into an enamelled saucepan and stir until it is thick. Now pour into a shallow greased tin to the thickness of ^ an inch, and when nearly cold cut into little squares with a greased knife. COCOANUT CANDY. AMERICAN RECIPE. Ingredients.—41bs. of the finest castor sugar, 1 pint of cold water, a small teaspoonful of cream of tartar, £ a ib. of grated cocoanut. Put the sugar into a saucepan with the water and cream of tartar. Let the mixture boil till it is thick and smooth, stirring continually till it becomes like cream. Now add the cocoanut, stirring till it becomes like cream. Now pour the mixture into an oiled tin. Let it cool and stiffen, and when quite set pour on it a second layer of cocoanut mixture coloured with cochineal. When quite cold cut into blocks. CANDIED CHESTNUTS.—MAR RONS GLACES. Ingredients.—Chestnuts, juice of 1 lemon, syrup, for the syrup 31bs. of sugar to 1 i pints of water and whites of 2 eggs.Shell the chestnuts and put them into boiling water till the inner skin peels off without difficulty. Then throw the chestnuts into another saucepan of boiling water and boil till quite tender. Squeeze the lemon juice into a basin of tepid water and in this put the chestnuts. When cool re- move them, dry, and dip each in syrup prepared as below. Put them on kitchen paper to dry. SYRUP. Put the sugar, water, and eggs previously well beaten into an enamelled saucepan. When the sugar is dissolved put the pan on the fire. When it boils add a teacupful of cold water. Let it come to boiling point again and set the pan by the side of the fire for the contents to settle. Carefully remove any scum and use. CHERRY CAKE.—HATEAU AU CERISES. Ingredients.—^lb. of butter, |lb. of castor sugar, Is lb. of •ground rice, the yolks of 9 eggs, and the whites of 5, Ub. of sweet almonds, Jjlb. of crystallized cherries. Beat the butter to a cream and mix it with the sugar, f ggs, ground rice, flour, and almonds, which have been blanched and peeled. Add the cherries and the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Mix these ingredients well to- gether and pour into a tin the bottom and sides of which have been lined with a buttered paper, which should stand three inches above the tin. Do not fill the tin more than f full and bake in a moderate oven for 11 to 1| hours. The cake should be turned on to a pastry rack or if that is not available a wire sieve, which allows the steam to escape. When cold cover it with cherry icing made as follows: — CHERRY ICING.—FRENCH GLACE. Ingredients.—Jibs, of icing sugar, 3 tablespoonfuls of cherry juice.166 Pass the sugar through a sieve and mix with the cherry juice (taken from a bottle of preserved cherries), stir this over the fire till slightly warm, then pour over the cake at once, smoothing it with a knife. ECCLES CAKES. Ingredients.—Jib. of puff paste, mincemeat, some castor sugar. Roll the paste out to the thickness of a J of an inch, divide in half and spread on one half a layer of mincemeat, cover this with the remaining piece of pastry, and trim the “ sandwich ” neatly. Prick the top with. « fork and cut into rounds or squares. Brash with cold water, dust with castor sugar and bake in a quick oven for 15 minutes. FROSTED FRUIT. Ingredients.—Ripe currants, cherries, strawberries, or grapes, castor sugar, white of egg, 1 tablespoonful of water. Beat the white of egg to a froth with the water on a plate. Dip each bunch of fruit in this, then roll the fruit in the powdered sugar till quite covered, lay them on white paper placed on a sieve and put it before the fire or in a cool oven till the frosting is dry and hard This makes a nice dessert dish, or a pretty garnish for cakes. GENOESE CAKE. Ingredients.—lib. of butter, 11b. of castor sugar, lib. of flour, £lb. of sultanas, 2oz. of mixed peel, loz. of pistachio nuts, the grated rind of a lemon, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder, 5 eggs, coffee icing. Beat the butter to a cream, and add to it by degrees the sugar, flour, sultanas, mixed .peel cut up small, and the eggs previously well beaten. Now beat this mixture well together for some minutes, then add the almonds, and pis- tachio nuts blanched and cut up, and finally the lemon rind.167 and baking powder. Line a buttered tin with a buttered paper which should reach 2 or 3 inches above the tin. Pour in the mixture and bake in a moderate oven for 1 $ hours. When the cake is quite cold cover with coffee icing. COFFEE ICING-. Ingredients.-—J of a lb. of icing sugar, 3 tablespoonfuls of very clear strong coffee. Mix together, warm over the fire and use as directed for cherry cake. IRISH GEMS. Ingredients.—1 egg, J pint of milk, two tablespoonful* of water, cornflour. Lightly beat the egg, stir into it the milk, water, and sufficient cornflour to thicken the mixture. Warm some little round tins, half fill them with the mixture and bake in a quick oven for | an hour. Cut them open, butter them, and serve very hot for breakfast or tea. JUMBLES. NORTH COUNTRY RECIPE. Ingredients.—Mb. of flour, £lb. of castor sugar, 2ozs. of butter, 1 egg, a dessertspoonful of ratifia brandy or orange flower water. Mix the flour, sugar, and egg, into a paste, then add the ratafia brandy, work the mixture well together, and if not sufficiently smooth add a spoonful of cream. Drop a small portion of the mixture with a fork on to a battered tin, leaving sufficient space between each “ jumble,” and bake in a moderate oven till they acquire a nice light brown colour. Suitable for afternoon tea or dessert. CANDIED LEMON PEEL. Ingredients.—Fine large sound lemons, 2 pints of water, ilb. of loaf sugar.168 Make an incision with a dessert knife round the half of each lemon, slip the handle of a silver spoon under this and remove the peel which, if properly done, will be in perfect halves and not broken. Carefully take away movt of the white part that adheres to the peel and put the peels into salt and water for 3 days. After this put them into fresh cold water and leave them for a day and night. 2sow put them in a pan and cover them with cold water and let them simmer gently till you can pierce them with the head of a pin, but do not let them get flabby. In the meantime make a syrup with J a. lb. of sugar to every pint of water, drain the peel diy, put them into a delicately clean preserving pan, completely cover them with the syrup, and simmer till the peel becomes quite transparent. While this is doing make a syrup of the remaining sugar and water (to every lib. of sugar 1 pint of water), drain ihe peel and put it into the second syrup and simmer over the fire till the sugar candies. Take out the peel and lay each piece en a baking tin which should be covered with kitchen paper and put into a cool oven to dry. Keep in biscuit tins for use. Oranges are candied in the same manner. NOUGAT. Ingredients.—lib. of sweet almonds, lib. of castor sugar, whipped cream flavoured to taste. Blanch and peel the almonds, wash them and wipe them dry in a napkin. Shred them and put them into a slow oven till they take a nice light fawn colour. In the mean- time put the sugar in a lined saucepan or preserving pan and stir it over a slow fire with a wooden spoon, being very careful not to let it catch. Now throw in the almonds which should be quite hot and mix very gently with the sugar Take a mould or as many small dariol cups as required (one for each person) oiling carefully the inside of each with a paste brush. Pour some of the nougat, on to a marble slab or large meat dish slightly oiled, and with a lemon, spread out the mixture as thin as possible. Hav- ing oiled your fingers, line the moulds as quickly as possible with the nougat while hot, for if allowed to cool it will become brittle. When the nougat is cold and set, slip aknife down the sides of the mould, gradually loosening it, turn out and fill with whipped cream, the top of which can be ornamented with shred pistachio nuts or crystallized fruit. PLUM CAKE. Ingredients.—lib. of butter, lib. of flour, Jib. currants, Jib. of stoned and chopped raisins, Jib. of sultanas, 6oz. of brown sugar, Jib. of mixed peel, J of a teaspoonful of spice, lj teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 2 eggs, J a pint of milk. Beat the butter to a cream with a wooden spoon, then stir in the yolks and whites of eggs which have been beaten separately, add the sugar, mixing these ingredients well together. Now put in the spice, the currants, washed and dried, the raisins, sultanas, and the peel, cut in slices. As you add each ingredient keep stirring the mixture. Finally add the baking powder and milk, work all well together and pour the mixture into a cake tin lined with a but- tered paper and bake in a moderate oven for 2 to 2J hours. POUND CAKE. Ingredients.—Jib. of butter, Jib. of castor sugar, 5 eggs, Jib. of sultanas, 4ozs. of mixed peel, Jib. of flour, 1 tea- spoonful of strained lemon juice. Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar and when perfectly mixed p>ut in the eggs which have been well beaten. Dredge in the flour, beating constantly. Now add the sultanas previously washed and picked, the peel cut in slices, and the lemon Juice. When these ingredients are thoroughly mixed, pour the mixture into a tin lined with a buttered paper, and bake for lj to 2 hours. When cold ice the cake as follows: — ICING. Ixgkedients.—The whites of 2 eggs, Jib. of icing sugar, flavouring of lemon or vanilla.170 Beat the eggs to a very stiff froth, then add to them the sugar and flavouring, beat the mixture till it is very light and white, spread smoothly over the cake and put it to dry at the mouth of a cool oven. PIKELETS LEICESTERSHIRE RECIPE. Ingredients.—2 pints of milk, a pinch of salt, 1 teacup- ful of oiled butter, ljoz. of German yeast, flour. Warm the' milk and stir into it the yeast and salt. Add sufficient flour to make into a batter. Let the mixture rise for \ an hour, then add the butter and stir all well together. Have ready some iron rings placed on the hot plate, pour the mixture into these and bake them very lightly. When ready to turn they will appear full of holes on the top. Toast them carefully, butter them, cut them in half and send up very hot. RICE CAKE. Ingredients.—Jib. of ground rice, Jib. of flour, Jib. of castor sugar, Jib. of butter, 5 eggs, flavouring of almond, vanilla, or lemon juice. Beat the butter to a cream,then whisk the eggs well.separa- ting the yolks from the whites, add the whites to the butter. Stir in the flour, rice, and flavouring, beat the mixture well to getlier for 15 or 20 minutes, add the yolks and beat again for some time. Line a tin with buttered paper, pour in die mixture and bake for 1 to 1J hours. CRYSTALLIZED STRAWBERRIES. Ingredients.—Fine ripe strawberries, 2 cupfuls of granu- lated sugar, J of a cupful of cold water. Hull the strawberries. Then put the sugar and water on a hot fire and boil without stirring till a spoonful of the mixture dropped into cold water crystallizes imme- diately. Remove from the fire, have ready some rearmed171 cups and dip the strawberries one by one in the hot sugar as quickly as possible, and lay them on a greased pan, when this is completed put the pan on ice and when quite cold the strawberries are ready to serve. SHORTBREAD. SCOTCH RECIPE. Ingredients.—To every 21bs. of Horn- allow Jib. of ground rice, Jib. of pounded white sugar, lib. of butter. Beat the butter to a cream, gradually add the flour (do not put it ail in at once), rice and sugar. Work the paste till it is quite smooth, then roll it out into a square, to the thickness of an inch, cut it into large squares, and pinch the sides of each portion. Prick the top of each with a. fork and ornament with strips of candied peel and comfits. Bake in a moderate oven for 25 to 30 minutes, and leave the shortbread to cool in the tin as it is so brittle. SPONGE CAKE. Ingredients.—Jib. fine sifted sugar, 5 eggs, Jib. of sifted flour, a teaspoonful of lemon juice, the grated rind of J a lemon, J teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, Put the eggs into a basin with thei sugar and whisk them briskly for 15 minutes. Now dredge in the flour and stir it very lightly, mixing it with the carbonate of soda, grate the lemon rind, add with it the lemon juice to the other ingredients, and when the whole is thoroughly mixed, pour it into a buttered mould, and bake in rather a quick oven, for a little over an hour. SCONES. SCOTCH RECIPE. Ingredients. -21bs. of dour, Joz. of bicarbonate of soda, Joz. of salt, 1 pint of milk. Mix these ingredients to the consistency of light dough, roll out to the thickness of J an inch, cut out in rounds and172 bake on a girdle over a clear fire for about 10 to 15 minutes, turn them to brown on both sides. Eat buttered, hot or cold. If you have not a girdle, the scones can be baked on a hot plate. SALLY LUNNS. Ingredients.—1 pint and a quarter of warm milk, Joz of German yeast, Jib. of butter, § of an oz. of castor sugar, flour. Put 1 pint of warm milk into a pan with the yeast and sufficient sifted and warmed flour to make it as thick as batter. Cover over and let it stand for about 2 hours to rise as high as it will. Mix the sugar in the milk, add it to the batter with the butter rubbed into a little flour, and make into dough. Let it stand for 30 minutes, then make into cakes, put them on tins, brush them over lightly with warm milk and place them in a warm place to rise again. When this is done bake in a quick oven for J of an hour. Split open, butter and send to table very hot. TEA CAKES. Ingredients.-—Jib. of butter, 1 egg, J a pint of milk, I lb. of flour, J teaspoonful of salt, 1 tablespoonful of German yeast. Sift and warm the flour and put it into a basin, add the butter and salt, beat up the egg in the milk which should be warm (increase the temperature in winter) stir to it the yeast and pour into the flour. Mix all together into a smooth paste kneading it well. Put the basin near the fire and when the batter is well risen make it into cakes. Put them on fins and let them rise again for about 10 minutes. Brash them over with a little warm milk and bake for ^ an hour in a moderate oven. They should be buttered and eaten very hot. ALMOND TOFFEE. Ingredients.—111), of brown sugar, Jib. of butter, tea- cupful of water, 1 small lemon. Alb of almonds.173 Boil the butter, sugar, water and half the rind of the lemon together. Drop a. little into cold water and if crisp it is done. When the boiling has ceased stir in the juice of the lemon. Blanch the almonds, halve them, and lay flat side downwards on a buttered tin which should be shal- low. When cold the toffee will be easily removed from the tin. When the almonds and lemon are omitted a little vanilla flavouring is very nice. WEDDING CAKE. Ingredients.—31bs. of currants, 3lbs. of raisins, Jib. each of candied orange and lemon peel, Jib. sweet almonds, 2 nutmegs, Joz. of ground cloves, Joz. of cinnamon, 21bs. of sifted loaf sugar, the grated rind of 3 lemons, 31bs. of fresh butter, 24 very fresh eggs, 31bs. of finest dried and sifted flour, J pint of brandy. Wash, pick, and dry the currants, stone and cut up the raisins and put them into an enamelled pan, cut the candied peel in slices, and stir it to the fruit. Blanch the almonds and cut in strips.^ Grate the nutmegs, pound the spices, add them to the other ingredients, and stir all well to- gether. Next add the sugar and lemon rind, mixing thoroughly. Beat the butter to a cream and put it to the fruit with the salt. Keep stirring the mixture for J an hour or more with a wooden spoon. Next beat up the eggs, the yolks and whites separately, and mix them in by degrees, pour in the brandy and lastly add the flour. Butter a tin well, line it with a buttered paper, and in the bottom of it place 3 sheets of buttered paper to prevent the cake burning. Pour hi the mixture when it is thoroughly beaten up, and cover the top with a sheet of paper. Bake the cake in a moderately quick oven for 4J to 5J hours. Great attention to the oven must be paid, the heat should not be too fierce but of a moderation to bake the cake through. Leave the cake in the tin till the next day and put away in a dry place as it should not be eaten for 3 or 4 weeks after it is made One week before required put on the almond paste and icing.174 ALMOND PASTE. Ingredients.—To every pound of finely pounded loaf sugar allow lib. of sweet almonds, 1 wineglassful of rose or orange flower water, \ a pint of water. Put the sugar and water into a saucepan, and boil till it ■becomes a syrup. Blanch the almonds and pound them in a mortar (a few at a time), to a paste, with rose or orange water. Add this paste to the sugar, let it boil up again until quite thick. Drop a little on a plate and if it sets it is ready to use. Lay this preparation very care- fully on the top of the cake to the thickness desired, it should be quite even and smooth and when the paste has set cover with the icing. ICING. Ingredients.—To lib. of icing sugar allow the whites of ‘6 eggs, and the strained juice of 1 lemon. Beat the whites of eggs well, add by degrees to them the sugar and whip to a very stiff froth. Then mis in the lemon juice. Whisk again till quite thick and almost hard then lay on the cake the icing with a flat wooden paper knife, smoothing the top and sides carefully Stand the cake in a very cool oven to harden the icing, but on no account let -it colour.^Section XI SWEETS177 SWEETS. COMPOTE OF APPLES.—COMPOTE DE POMMES A LA FRANCAISE. Ingredients.—Apples, J a pint of water, | a pint of white wine, lib. of lump sugar, 2 sliced lemons, a little cinnamon. Peel the apples very thin and even and put them into water. Now put the peelings into a stewpan with the water, wine, sugar, lemon, cinnamon, and pippins. Set the pan on the stove and let the contents boil very slowly for 1 hour. When this is done strain the syrup from the apples through a very fine sieve. Lay the apples evenly round a preserving pan (not one upon another) pour the syrup over them and simmer very gently until they are quite tender. Now take the apples up with a slice and put them on a dish to cool. Reduce the syrup to the amount suffi- cient to cover the apples and garnish with sliced preserved oranges when quite cold. Placed on ice for a few minutes this dish is best. ALMOND CHEESECAKES. Ingredients.—4oz. of sweet almonds, loz. of bitter al- monds, the yolks of 4 eggs and the whites of 2, 2 table- spoonfuls of castor sugar, the rind of a lemon grated, J a giass of brandy, puff pastry, 1 spoonful apricot jam. Blanch the sweet and bitter almonds and pound them very fine. Then put the yolks of the eggs into them with the sugar and beat them up well for 10 minutes. Then beat up the whites of eggs on a plate and put them to the almonds with the lemon peel, jam and brandy. Line some tartlet tins with puff paste, half fill them with the cheese- cake and put them in the oven. They will take a very little time to bake. M178 CHARLOTTE OF APPLES.—CHARLOTTE DE POMMES. Ingredients.—Apple marmalade, stale bread, egg, but- ter, clarified butter. Butter well a plain mould and line it with tbe bread cut to the length of the mould, and about 2 inches wide. Dip each piece in clarified butter, arrange the bread in the mould one piece half over the other, cut a piece of bread the size of the bottom of the mould, then brush the bread over with the egg, to make it stick together when baked. Then fill up the mould with the apple marmalade, cover it in with ordinary tart paste. Bake it in the oven for f of an hour, turn out carefully and serve. APPLE MARMALADE. SCOTCH RECIPE. Ingredients.—Apples, water, cinnamon, cloves, the peel of 2 lemons, sifted sugar, squeeze of lemon juice. Peel the apples, core them, and put them on to boil in a little water with a a little cinnamon, 1 or 2 cloves and the lemon peel. When they are sufficiently broke rub them through a hair sieve. Put the apples in a small preserving pan with sufficient sugar to sweeten them. Boil for about 10 minutes. Keep a spoon in the pan to stir them and keep them from sticking to the bottom. "When the apples begin to get flat squeeze in the lemon juice and they are ready for the charlotte. APPLES AND RICE.—POMMES AUX RIX MERINGUES. Ingredients.—6 apples, 2 and a ^ pints of water, 4ozs. lump sugar, 3 or 4 cloves, ^oz. of cinnamon, 41b. of Patna rice, 1 pint of milk, 4ozs. of castor sugar, the thin rind of a lemon, the yolks and whites of 3 eggs. Peel the apples, core them, cut them in half, and put them in a shallow stewpan with £ a pint of water, sugai, cloves, and cinnamon. Let the apples boil till they become179 tender. Remove them from the pan and let the syrup boil till reduced to 2 tablespoonfuls, and strain it over the apples. Now put the rice into a stewpan with the remain- ing 2 pints of water and leave it till it boils on the lire. Drain off the water and add the milk, castor sugar, and lemon rind. When the rice is well cooked remove the lemon rind and mix into the rice the yolks of eggs, work all well together and heap on to a dish. Cover the top with the apples and cover the whole with the whites of eggs beaten to a very stiff froth with a tablespoonful of white sugar. Sprinkle powdered sugar on the top and bake in a cool oven for 30 minutes. This dish is nice hot or cold, and whipped cream round the base of the dish is a nice addition. APPLE FLOATING ISLAND. OLD RECIPE. Ingredients.—6 or 8 large apples, the whites of 4 eggs, a little orange flower water, and pounded sugar, according to taste. Bake the apples and when they are cold peel and core them and rub the pulp through a sieve with the back of a wooden spoon. Then beat it up with pounded sugar which should be well sifted. Beat up the whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth (keep the yolks for the custard) then mix it with apples, a little at a time, till all is beat together exceedingly light. Make a rich boiled custard put it in a giass dish and lay the apples over it. Garnish with chopped raspberry jelly, and serve. CLEAR APPLE JELLY.—GELEE DE POMMES. Ingredients.—Apples, to every pint of juice allow lib of preserving sugar, flavouring of whole ginger or lemon. Wipe and core the apples but do not peel them, put them into a preserving pan and cover well with cold water bring it to boiling point, then gently simmer till the apples are tender. Tie a piece of muslin over a pan and turn the apple pulp into this. Do not press it through but let it dram all night. Then to every 1 pint of juice allow theISO lib. of sugar, and flavour according to taste. Let this mixture simmer veiy gently for 20 or 30 minutes. Then pot it and it is ready for use. ANTIGUA PUDDING. OLD JAMAICA RECIPE. Ingredients.—fib. of butter, the yolks of ten eggs, Jib. pounded sugar, 1 grated nutmeg, 1 glass of brandy. Melt the butter, beat the yolks of eggs, sugar, nutmeg, as light as you can, add the brandy last. Put the mix- ture into a pudding dish and bake in a moderate oven for 30 minutes. APRICOT SOUFFLE.—SOUFFLE D’ABRICOTS. Ingredients.—1 dozen apricots, 22ozs. of pounded sugar, 6ozs. of potato flour, 4ozs. of butter, 1 pint of milk. 6 eggs, 1 stick of vanilla, a pinch of salt. Put the apricots into a stewpan with I2ozs. of the sugar, stir together with a wooden spoon and boil down to a jam. Remove from the fire and mix with the souffle made in this way. Boil the milk, add the vanilla and leave in a covered stewpan for 40 minutes. Now put the remainder of the sugar, potato, flour, butter, salt, and one egg into a stewpan and all well together. Now pour in the milk, stir till it boils. Add the yolks of the eggs, and set aside while you are beating the whites to a stiff froth, add these to the mixture, and pour into a souffle dish, and bake in a moderate oven, for 30 minutes or more. Carry it at once to the dining-room door on a hot baking dish and serve directly. APRICOT CREAM.—CREME D’ABRICOT. Ingredients.—1 tin of apricots, 2oz. pounded sugar, loz. of gelatine, sufficient milk to dissolve it, 1 pint of cream. Turn out the tin of apricots into a saucepan, add the sugar, and boil together for J of an hour. Dissolve the gelatine in milk. Then whip the cream to a stiff frotln181 Add the gelatine to the apricot pulp, and work the cream mto it quickly. Pour into a pretty mould, put it on ice or very cold water to set, and previous to turning out dip the mould in hot water. Cut apricots and preserved cherries make a pretty garnish. APRICOT JELLY.—GELEE D’ABRICOT. Ingredients.—loz. of gelatine, \ pint of water, 1 tin of apricots, sweetening of sugar to taste. Dissolve the gelatine in the water. Take the juice of a nin of apricotsi, and mix with it sufficient water to make a pint, and sweeten to taste. Strain the gelatine to this juice Ornament a, mould with the apricots cut in pieces, pour in a little of the liquid jelly, and when this is set, arrange some more apricots, and so on till the mould is full. Place on ice, turn out, and serve with whipped cream. BLAN'C MANGE.—BLANC MANGE. Ingredients.—loz. of geiatinet, 1J pints milk, \ pint of cream, loz. of sweet almonds, Jib. pounded sugar, \ wine- glassful of brandy. Dissolve all these ingredients together, with the exception of the cream and brandy, strain, and add the cream which must not be boiled and the brandy. Pour into a mould and turn out when cold. The topi of the bianc mange looks pretty coloured with cochineal. BABA.—BABA AU RHUM. Ingredients.—21bs. of flour, lib. of butter, loz. of Ger- man yeast, 4ozs. of butter, 6ozs. of raisins, and 4ozs. currants mixed, 2ozs. of candied peel, 12 eggs, a pinch of salt, 2 winegiassfuls of brandy. Put one fourth part of the flour on a slab, put the yeast m the centre, and dissolve it with a little tepid water.182 When this is done add enough warm water to make a “ sponge.” Put the other ingredients in a large bowl, break the eggs into it and beat with the hand till the mixture is full of bubbles. Set it to rise from 1 to 2 hours. When it has risen mix the sponge to it and beat again. Spread a round flat tin with butter, put in the baba and put it beside the fire to rise to double its size. Then bake in a good oven from 1 to 1J hours. Care must be taken not to let the cake acquire a deep colour and for this purpose the oven should be of moderate heat. CURRANTS A LA DAUPHINE.—RAISINS A LA DAUPHINE. Ingredients.—* an oz. cf gelatine, J pint, of water, J pint of red currant juice, 3oz. of fine pounded sugar, juice of 1 lemon, the whites of 2 eggs. Soak the gelatine in water sufficient to cover it for 30 minutes, then add the water, red currant juice, sugar, and lemon juice. Boil all these together and when cool, add the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Beat altogether for 15 minutes. Have ready a wet mculd and pour into it the mixture. Set on ice, turn out in the usual manner, and serve with rich custard poured round. Sponge finger# handed, round make a nice accompaniment to tins sweet. CARAMEL PUDDING.—BOUDIN CARAMEL. Ingredients.—6oz. of sugar, i pint of water, the yolks and whites of 6 eggs, 1 pint of milk. Boil the sugar and water together until the syrup lo- c omes a dark brown. Have ready a small buttered basin or mould warmed, pour the syrup into it and keep turning it round and round till the syrup is set. Divide the yoiks and whites of eggs, strain the yolks and with the whites mix them gradually and thoroughly with the milk. Pour the mixture into the mould, then lay a piece of paper on the top and set it in a saucepan of cold water which should reach not more than | of the height of the mould, cover183 the saucepan and steam very gently for 1 hour. Now put the saucepan in a cool place and when the water is quite cold turn out the caramel very carefully and serve. COCOANUT PUDDING.—BOUDIN DE COCO. Ingredients.—Jib. grated cocoanut, Jib. fresh butter, Jib. castor sugar, the whites of 6 eggs, preserved cherries, puff pastry. Line a pie dish with puff pastry, beat the butter to a cream, then mix to it the cocoanut, sugar, and the whites of eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Pour the mixture into the dish. Ornament the top with the cherries and bake in a moderate oven for half-an-hour. COFFEE CUSTARD.—FLAU AU CAFE. Ingredients.—For the custard 5 eggs, 1 pint of milk, Jib. pounded sugar, flavouring of vanilla, J a teacupful of very strong clear coffee, puff pastry. Line a pudding dish with puff pastry, gimp the edges and fill with the custard made as follows : Put the milk into a saucepan, with the sugar and vanilla essence. Beat the eggs (yolks and whites) pour the milk to them stirring all the time. Strain the custard into the dish and bake in a moderate oven for about J an hour. On no account let the custard brown. Good hot or cold. CALF’S FEET .1 ELLY. OLD RECIPE. Ingredients.—4 calf's feet, 5 quarts of water, white sugar to taste, the peel of 2 lemons and the juice of 4. Half a bottle of Madeira or sherry, the whites of 6 eggs and shells. Clean and slit the calf’s feet and boil them slowly in the water till rather more than half is wasted. Skim the 6tock, strain off the liquor and when cold and firm remove the top fat and the sediment. Put this jelly into a very1S4 clean preserving pan with the sugar,the lemon peel and juice, wine, and eggs, beaten to a froth, throw into the pan the shells crushed. Stir all these ingredients well together on the fire, taking care not to agitate the jelly after it begins to heat. Let it boil slowly for 12 to 15 minutes, then throw m a little cold water and let it boil another 5 minutes. Set the pan with a cloth thrown over it to settle J an hour, then strain the jelly through a flannel jeily bag and strain till it be perfectly pellucid, for the brightness of jellies is one of their main excellencies. CHOCOLATE CREAM.—CREME AU CHOCOLAT. Ingredients.—Jib. finest grated chocolate, lib. pounced sugar, the yolks of 8 eggs, 1J pints cream, ljoz. of gelatine, flavouring of vanilla. Put the grated chocolate into a stewpan with the sugar, eggs and 1 pint of cream, stir the whole over the stove till the mixture begins to thicken, but on no account let it curdle. Strain this through a tammy into a basin, add the remainder of the cream well whipped and the gelatine, mix all together, pour into a mould and when cold turn out, All creams are improved by being put on ice. When this is not obtainable stand the mould in cold water and place it in the coldest spot available. ECLAIRS.—ECLAIRS. Ingredients.—1 a. pint of water, 1 tablespoonful of white sugar, 2ozs. of fresh butter, 4 eggs, Jib. of flour, vanilla flavouring. Put the water, sugar, and butter into a saucepan, and when the water boils, stir in the flour, mix it on the fire for a few minutes till it becomes a perfectly smooth thick paste. When the paste no longer sticks to the sides cf the saucepan, remove the pan from the fire, and before the paste is cool work into it 2 eggs. When well mixed an t smooth, drop in the other two, and beat again. Now put the paste in a plain forcing tube and squeeze it out on a buttered baking tin to about the length and width ov “ ladies185 sponge fingers,” say about 4 inches long and 1 inch wide. Bake in a slow oven, till they have risen a great deal which will take about 20 minutes. When quite cold slit each eclair open at the side and fill with whipped cream or thick custard flavoured to taste. When this is done the top of each must be made with chocolate icing made as follows : — CHOCOLATE ICING. Ingredients.—11b. of sugar, 4oz. of grated chocolate, 1 a small teacupful of water, flavouring of vanilla. Put the sugar and water in a small enamelled saucepan and boil for 4 or 5 minutes stirring all the time, now mix in the chocolate and vanilla, and stir till the ingredients are quite mixed and smooth, then spread this icing evenly over the top of the eclairs, leave to harden and serve cold. FAIRIES’ DELIGHT. OLD RECIPE. Ingredients.—1 pint of milk, 3 eggs, 1 teacupful of fine white sugar, |oz. of gelatine. Flavouring of essence of almond or vanilla, \ pint of cream. Soak the gelatine in a little milk, then put it with the milk and sugar in a saucepan, stirring constantly till dis- solved. Well beat the yolks of eggs, add them to the milk and keep stirring over the fire till nearly boiling, they must not boil or they will curdle. Whip the whites of eggs to a very stiff froth in a basin, pom’ the mixture to it, add the flavouring, mix up quickly, pour into a wet mould, and turn out when cold. A few drops of cochineal adds to the effect of the sweet and an almond custard round the dish is a nice addition. GRAPE CUSTARD.—FLAN DE RAISIN. Ingredients.—\ pint of grape juice, 2ozs. of sifted sugar, the yolks of 3 eggs^ Beat the yolks of eggs thoroughly, and add them gradually to the grape juice and sugar which have been dissolved over the fire. Pour into a jug immersed in186 boiling water, and stir rapidly till boiled. When the cus- tard thickens pom* it into a bowl, stir till nearly cold, add the cream, mis well together, pour into glasses and serve. Cherry, red, and black currant custards are made in the same way. Note.—It is always safer to boil custard in a jug as there is then no fear of curdling. CUSTARDS A LA MARGUERITE.—FLANS A LA MARGUERITE. Ingredients.—Puff pastry, 1 pint of milk, 1 pint of cream, the peel of a lemon, a little cinnamon, the yolks of 8 eggs, caBtor sugar, glace cherries. Butter some dariol moulds, dust them with flour and line them with puff pastry, half bake the paste, then fill them with a custard made as follows: Put the cream, milk, lemon peel, and cinnamon into a stewpan and let it boil for \ of an hour, then let it cool. Beat up the eggs in a basin, sweeten with sugar, then pour the cream mixture to the eggs little by little, mixing well all the time, then strain through a hair sieve. Put the dariols in the oven for 10 minutes then turn out the little custards and when quite cold ornament them with cut glace cherries and serve. CAKE A LA CHANTILLY. DELICIOUS. Ingredients.—A savoy cake, sherry or Madeira wine, custard, whipped cream, blanched almonds. Cut a round piece out of the top of the cake and sc^op out the inside. Put it on a glass dish and pour the wine into the cake, as the wine pours out into the dish, baste the cake with it in a spoon. When the cake is well saturated pour off any remaining wine from the dish. Now cover the sides of the cake thickly with custard, put some in the centre and fill up the remainder of the cavity with whipped cream prepared as for Trifle (see page 196). Have ready some blanched almonds, cut them in quarters and ornament the sides and top of the cake with them and serve.187 GINGER SOUFFLE.—SOUFFLE A LA MIRABELLE. Ingredients.—1 pint of milk, 1 pint of cream, peel of 2 lemons, a little cinnamon, lump sugar to sweeten, Jib. of butter, sufficient flour to diy it up, 10 eggs, Jib. best pre- served ginger, a large glass of brandy, a very little nutmeg, dried cherries, white wine sauce. Boil the milk, cream, lemon, cinnamon, and sugar to- gether for J an hour, then put on one side to cool. Put the butter in a stewpan and when melted add the flour, keep stirring it over the fire until it leaves the bottom of the pan then take it off the fire and break in ,the eggs one at a time, mix all the time and the same way till the eggs and flour are perfectly mixed and become a thick batter. Then add the prepared milk and beat up well together (if not well mixed the souffle will be spoilt). Now brush a plaiu mould well with butter, ornament it as fancy dictates with the cherries, and pour in the souffle to which has been added the brandy and ginger cut in small pieces. Put the mould in a stewpan of boiling water that will cover the mould rather more than half way. Put the lid on the stew- pan and on that put lighted charcoal and keep ,it boiling very slowly for I hour. Take the mould out of the stew- pan, leave it a minute or two and serve. LEMON PUDDING. OLD RECIPE. Ingredients.—Jib. of sweet almonds, 1 or 2 bitter ones, enough orange flower water to make them into a paste, the rind of 4 lemons, the juice of 1, the yolks of 10, and the whites of 4 eggs, Jib. melted butter, sugar to taste, 1 wine- glassful of Malaga wine, a very little grated nutmeg, puff paste. Pound the almonds to a paste with the orange flower water, the lemon rinds boiled quite tender, and the lemon juice. Beat the yolks and whites of the eggs separately, add them ar.d the melted butter to the paste, sweeten to taste. Then mix in the wfine and nutmeg, and pour the mixture into a pudding dish lined with puff paste. Bake in a moderate oven.188 LEMON PUFFS. Ingredients.-—lib. of the best white sifted sugar, the juice of 1, and the rind of 2 lemons, 3 whole eggs and the white of 1. Pass the sugar through a fine sieve, put it into a bowl with the lemon juice, and beat well together. Beat the white of egg to a high froth, add it to the bowl and beat for another | hour, then put in the eggs with the lemon rinds grated, and mix well together. Dust some kitchen paper with sugar and drop on to it the puffs in smali drops and bake them hi a moderate oven. LEMON CUSTARD.—FLAU AU CITRON. Ingredients.—The grated rind of a Seville orange, 6ozs. pounded sugar, the yolks of 6, and the whites of 3 eggs, 1J pints of milk, 2oz. pounded almonds. Make the custard in the usual manner, and when cold add the juice of 1 lemon, and a little brandy. LEMON CREAMS.—CREME DE CITRON. Ingredients.—The juice of 4 large lemons, and the peel of one, Jib. of pounded sugar, the whites of 7, and the yolk of 1 egg. Mix the lemon juice and sugar together, beat the whites of eggs well, also the yolk separately, add to the lemon juice, then strain the mixture and set it on a gentle fire, stirring all the time one way till it is thick as rich cream. Take off the scum and when it is very hot, but not boiling, put in the lemon peel. When the mixture is moderately «ool remove the lemon peel and pour the cream into glasses. MAID OF HONOUR PUDDING. Ingredients.—Jib. of potatoes, 3oz. of butter, 3oz. of pounded sugar, 2 eggs, 1 lemon, puff paste.189 Boil the potatoes, till they are very soft, then, mix in the butter, then stir in the sugar, next the eggs which must be very well beaten and then the juice of the lemon with the rind grated very finely. Keep stirring the mixture till it is ■perfectly smooth then add the sherry, pom* into a pie dish lined with puff paste, and bake for 1 horn*. It can be eaten hot or cold, and in the latter case is very nice served with lemon creams. MINCE PIES. DELICIOUS OLD YORKSHIRE RECIPE. Ingredients.—71bs. of currants, 3|lbs. of beef suet, 31 lbs. lean raw sirloin of beef, 3 Jr lbs. apples, lib. of citron, ditto of lemon peel, ditto orange peel, 2lbs. of the best moist sugar, loz. of fine spice, the rinds of 4 lemons and 4 oranges, 1 bottle of brandy, 1 bottle of sherry. Pick the currants very clean and chop the suet, sirloin, and apples very fine. Cut the citron, lemon and orange peel in small pieces. Now mix these all thoroughly together with the sugar, spice, and lemon and orange rind. When this is done put the ingredients into a deep pan or jar, pour in \ the brandy and wine, and the juice from the lemons and oranges. Mix very well together, press the mincemeat tight down with your hand then pour in the re- mainder of liquid and let it thoroughly soak in by degrees then cover the pan up. It should be made 6 weeks before required. Line mince pie tins with good paste and bake for 10 minutes. MALVERN PUDDING. Ingredients.—Some slices of stale bread, 1^ pint of fresh currants, \ pint fresh raspberries, 4ozs. of pounded sugar, whipped cream. Dip a pudding basin into cold water and line it with rather stale bread. Stew the raspberries and currants with the sugar for 10 or 12 minutes after they are hot. Fill the basin with the fruit and cover it over with rounds of bread. Set it in a cold place until the next day, and turn it out very carefully. Cover with whipped cream sweetened to taste and pour round it a little of the currant and raanbeirv juice.190 ORANGE JELLY.—GELEE D’ORANGES. Ingredients.—The juice and rind of 2 lemons, and 2 Seville oranges, 10 or 12 China oranges, 2ozs. of gelatine, of loaf sugar, 1 pint of water. Soak the gelatine in \ a pint of the water, and put the sugar with the remainder in a saucepan and boil till it be- comes a syrup, grate the rinds of the 2 Seville oranges and lemons, squeeze and strain the juice of the China oranges and add these to the syrup. Put in the gelatine and stir till dissolved. Remove the scum for which purpose add a wine- glassful of cold water gradually to make it rise. Stir all together over the fire till on the point of boiling, skim carefully and strain through muslin. When nearly cold pour it into a wetted mould and when quite set turn it out. The brightness of this jelly depends on the gelatine oemg very clear, and the lemon and orange juice well strained. The prettiest orange jelly is made in an open mould, the centre filled with whipped cream, and the jelly itself can be moulded with slices of orange. ORANGE CHARTREUSE.—CHARTREUSE D’ORANGES. Ingredients.—Orange jelly, oranges, preserved cherries, sliced greengages, or any suitable fresh fruit, spinach colouring, cochineal, bavaroise Divide the oranges in liths, taking care no skin or pith adheres to them. Line a Charlotte mould with orange jelly, arrange the oranges in a pretty pattern and set them with a little more jelly, keeping the mould on ice. When this is set, pour in a layer of jelly coloured green, and mixed with greengages. In the same way proceed with the pink jelly and cherries, and finish off with orange jelly. When quite set turn out and fill the centre with the following mixture: BAVAROISE. Ingredients.—1 pint of milk, 4ozs. of castor sugar, fozs. of gelatine, the yolks of 4 eggs, 1 pint of cream, essence of vanilla.191 Boil the milk and add to it the sugar and gelatine and stir till dissolved. Put the yolks of eggs into a basin and stir the milk on to them, mixing well. Pour this mio a jug immersed in boiling water, keep stirring till the custard thickens then strain through a tammy and put aside. When cold add the cream beaten to a stiff froth, and vanilla essence. Pour this mixture into the mould, and when quite set turn out the chartreuse. ORANGE PUDDING WITHOUT EGGS.—BOUDIN D’ORANGES. Ingredients.—4 oranges, the weight of 3 in pounded sugar, the weight of one in bread crumbs, butter size of walnut, rich paste. Pare the fruit and boil the rind as you take it off till it is quite tender. Then pulp the oranges and add the pulp and juice to the rind which should be chopped very fine. Line a shallow dish with paste, cover it with the orange mix- ture to which add the butter, and place on the top some cut flowers of paste, tput in the oven and bake for \ an hour. PRINCESS PUDDING.—BOUDIN A LA PR1NCES3E. Ingredients.—1 teacupful of milk, 3ozs. pounded sugar, \ an oz. of gelatine, a squeeze of lemon juice, 3 eggs. Melt the gelatine in the milk, then beat the yolks of the eggs and sugar together. Next beat the whites of eggs stiffly, add the lemon juice (the quantity must depend upon taste), mix all well together, pour into a mould, put aside in a cool place, and when set turn out. SHORT PASTE. Ingredients.—To lib. of flour allow Jib. of butter and 2 eggs.192 Hub the butter into the flour, add the eggs and a little water, work the paste into the desired thickness, then roll it out for use. Add 2 table?poonfuls of castor sugar if for a tart, without, this is the the proper pastry for meat pics, Ac., Ac. FAMILY PASTRY. Ingredients.—To 1 Jibs, of flour, add Jib. of butter. Break the butter into the flour, wet it with water and roll out twice. Then use as required. PUFF PASTRY.—PATISSERIE FEUILLETAGE. Ingredients.—Equal quantities of flour and butter, .-ay Jib. of each, \ teaspoonful of salt, the yolk of 1 egg, i tea- spoonful of lemon juice. Sift the flour and see that it is perfectly dry, put it on the paste board, then wring the butter in a clean nagkm to extract all moisture from it. When this is done make a hole in the centre of the flour and put into it the egg, lemon juice, and salt and mix the whole together with sufficient water. Knead up the paste (which should be firm and smooth) quickly, handling it as little as possible, and then roll it out to about the thickness of of an inch. Now roll the butter into a ball remembering that it must be perfectly free from moisture and as cool as possible, and place it on the paste, fold the paste over the butter, pinching the edges of the paste to enclose it, then lightly roll it out quite thin, but do not let the butter break through and keep the Doard and paste lightly dredged with flour. Now fold it in three and put the paste in a cold place for 20 minutes, and repeat this process 5 times, making in all 6 rollings, and he sure that between each turn the paste is perfectly cool as in this lies the secret of success. When this is finished double the paste in two and roll out to the desired thickness and it is ready for use suitable for vol au vents, patties, Ac.193 LIGHT PASTRY. AMERICAN RECIPE. Ingredients.—lib. of sifted flour, lib. fresh butter, | tear spoonful cream of tartar, a pinch of salt, water. Work a quarter of the butter into the flour until it be- comes very fine, add the cream of tartar and work alto- gether very smoothly with enough water to bind it. Dredge the paste board and rolling pin with flour, and roll the paste to about 1 an inch in thickness, on this put one-third cf the remaining butter in bits, fold it up, lightly dredge the board and rolling pin again with flour, roll out again. Repeat this process twice and the paste is ready. PINEAPPLE CREAM.—CREME D’ANANAS. Ingredients.—To every lib. of tinned pineapple allow 4ozs. of sugar, J- pint of water, llozs of gelatine, 1 pint of cream, \ pint of the pineapple syrup. Pound the pineapple in a mortar, add the sugar, water, syrup, and boil altogether for about £ of an hour, then pass through a tammy. Now soak the gelatine in a little milk, and mix it with the pineapple. Whip the cream to a stiff froth and add it gently to the prepared mixture. When mixed pour it into a wetted mould, put it on ice to set, and turn it out. POTATO PUDDING. OLD RECIPE. Ingredients.—12 potatoes, the yolks of 12 eggs, 1 quart of sweet cream, Jib. of almonds, rose water, 1 wineglassful of Malaga wine or brandy, one grated nutmeg, sugar to taste. Boil the potatoes tender, then pound them fine with the eggs, cream, blanched almonds, wine, nutmeg, and sugar, mix well altogether and when quite smooth flour a doth, tie the pudding up in it, and boil it. If preferred the pudding can be baked.194 PRUSSIAN PUDDINGS.—BOUDINS PRUSSE OLD RECIPE. Ingredients.—The yolks of 6 and the whites of 3 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 1 pint of cream, a noggin of milk, a gill of brandy, sugar. Mix the flour and yolks of eggs together, then put in the milk, brandy, cream, and sugar to taste, lastly add the whites of eggs well beaten up, pour the mixture into small tins, or cups, previously well buttered, bake them and »orve with wine sauce. BAKED PEARS. OLD RECIPE. Ingredients.—1 dozen large pears, lib. preserving sugar, 1 pint of red wine, 6 cloves. Peel the pears, but leave on the stems, put them into a crock with the sugar, wine, and cloves. Cover the crock with dough, and put it into the oven (which should be the heat you have baked white bread in), and let it remain till the oven grows quite cold. Then remove the crock and pour the liquor of the pears into a skillet (a kettle or cauldron) give it one boil and pour it boiling hot on the pears, cover them up close and put them by for use. RICE SOUFFLE.—SOUFFLE DE RIZ. Ingredients.—3 large tablespoonfuls of rice flour, 1 pint of milk, sugar to taste, vanilla or whatever flavouring pro ferred, the yolks of 5, and the whites of 7 eggs. Mix the rice flour with a little of the milk till it is quite smooth, then put it into a saucepan with the remainder of the milk and sugar. Stir over the fire till the mixture thickens, then take off the fire and let it cool. Separate the whites from the yolks of eggs, beat the yolks and work them into the batter gradually. Whip the whites to the stiffe«t froth possible, stir them in with the flavouring and pour the mixture into a souffle dish, put it in the oven at once and bake for about | an hour. Send to table at once and carry to the dining-room door on a hot baking tin.195 STRAWBERRY OR RASPBERRY CREAM.—CREME DE FRAISES OU FRAMBROISES. LADY C.’S FRENCH CHEF. Ingredients.—Strawberries, cream, 6ozs. pounded sugar, a small teaspoonful of gum Arabic, and a moderate sized tumbler of strawberry pulp. Add the sugar, cream, strawberry pulp, and gum Arabic to the cream and beat stiffly all together and pile up high on a dish, 1 or 2 drops of cochineal improves the colour. Coffee cream is made in the same way, substituting a cup of strong infusion of coffee for the strawberry pulp, and adding the yolks of S eggs and rather more sugar. TAPIOCA CREAM. Ingredients.—Equal quantities of tapioca and raw cream, vanilla or lemon flavouring. Boil the tapioca thoroughly and whip the cream stiffly till it will drop thickly from the spoon. Mix it and the tapioca together with the flavouring, sweeten to taste, and servo ice cold in a glass dish. This is a delicious accom- paniment to stewed fruit. TORINO TART.—1TOURTE ITALIENNE. Ingredients.—Pastry, peaches, sugar to taste, whipped cream. Line a pie dish with light paste, and put into it a layer of ripe peeled peaches, or tinned ones,, strew some blanched and shredded sweet almonds over this, then another layer of poaches sweetened to taste, half fill the dish with water and cover the whole with a light paste rolled to twice the thickness used for tarts. Bake in a slow oven for f of an hour, and serve cold with whipped cream. TREACLE SPONGE. Ingredients.—Jib. golden syrup, fib. of flour, 6ozb. of •uet, 1 large teacupful of milk, 1J teaspoonfuls of baking powder, rind of 1 lemon.196 Put the treacle and milk in a basin in the oven to warm together. Mix the flour, baking powder, and suet well to- gether and then stir them into the milk and treacle gra<- dually. It requires no beating but to be stirred thoroughly. Pour the mixture into a well buttered mould, tie a floured cloth over and boil hours. TRIFLE.—GATEAU AU FLAN. Ingredients.—A savoy cake, maccaroons, ratifias, I pint of sherry, rich custard, apricot jam, 1 pint of rich cream, the white of an egg, a lump of sugar rubbed to a lemon. 2 glasses of white wine or a little brandy, preserved orange peel, hundreds and thousands. Cut the cake in slices and put them in a glass trifle dish. Between each slice put alternately a layer of maccaroons and ratifias. Now pour the sherry over the cake and let it soak well in. Then cover the cake plentifully with custard made as below, and on the custard put apricot jam. Put the cream into a basin with the egg, sugar, wine, and beat altogether well up with a whisk till it is quite a froth, lay the whipped cream on the trifle, garnish with the peel, scatter the hundreds and thousands over and serve. When iced this trifle is simply delicious. CUSTARD FOR ABOVE. Ingredients.—1 quart of milk, 1 quart of cream, a very little cinnamon, lemon peel and sugar, the yolks of 8 eggs, 1 spoonful of flour, 1 small glass of brandy, 2 tablespoonfuls of ratafia essence. Put the milk, cream, cinnamon, lemon peel and sugar into an enamelled saucepan and boil for i an hour, now take the pan off the fire and let the contents cool. Put the eggs and flour into a basin and beat them up very thoroughly with a spoon. Now add the mixed milk and cream a little at a time, and keep stirring all the time, then strain the mixture through a hair sieve into a stewpan. Put the pan on a brisk fire and keep stirring carefully till it comes to a boil Let it now cool. When half cold add the brandy and ratafia and use.197 VICTORIA CAKES. Ingredients.—Jib. fresh butter, ljlbs. dried and sifted •flour, Jib. castor sugar, 4 eggs, a pinch of salt, jam. Beat the butter to a cream and work in gradually the sugar, flour, and salt, beating all the time, then add the eggs well beaten- Mix them thoroughly in, and continue beating the mixture till it is very smooth and creamy. But- ter a baking tin? pour the mixture into it, and bake about 20 minutes in a moderate oven. When the cake is cold Rpread one half with jam, fold the other half over it, press well together, and cut the cakes into any fancy shapes. Ice half of them white and the other half pink. Pile on a dish and serve. VICTORIA PUDDING. Ingredients.—J pint of cream, J pint of milk, 5 eggs, 2 dessertspoonfuls of brandy, |oz. of gelatine, 6 Id. sponge cakes, 2 glasses of white wine, jam. Make the custard with the eggs well beaten up, the cream and milk, and vanilla to flavour, and the gelatina When the custard is cold stir in the brandy and wine. Take an ornamental mould and dip it into water, pour into the bottom some of the custard and when this has set put a layer of sliced sponge cake spread with jam (apricot is deli- cious) on it. Continue to fill the mould in the same way, j ouring custard between each layer. Put on ice, or ieave to next day till quite cold, turn out and serve.Section XII. SAVOURIES.\201 SAVOURIES. ASPARAGUS A LA CAMPAGNARD.—ASPERGF.S A LA CAMPAGNARD. Ingredients.—Asparagus tops, 8 eggs, pepper and salt, 2ozs. of butter, buttered toast, large flap mushrooms. Cut as many asparagus tops (peas) off as you can afford (keeping the stalks for soup) and boil them as in previous recipes in a little salt and water. Break the eggs into a basin and beat them well up with seasoning of pepper and salt. Put them, the asparagus, peas, and butter into a stewpan over the fire and keep stirring the whole time till the mixture becomes thick, then have ready rounds of very hot buttered, toast, on which place a well grilled mushroom, exactly the same size and rn the mushroom pour over and completely cover with the asparagus mixture. Serve at once. ANCHOVIES AND CREAM.—ANCHOIX A LA CREME. Ingredients.—Buttered toast, anchovy paste, anchovies, olives, Devonshire cream. Cut the buttered toast in strips about an inch wide spread thinly with anchovy paste and add a thick lajer of Devonshire cream, on top of this lay 1 or 2 washed and boned anchovies, and over all sprinkle a shredded olive. Serve. ANCHOVIES A LA DUCHESSE.—ANCHOIX A LA DUCHESSE. Ingredients.—Fried cnputc^s, 6 bonied and washed anchovies, Jib. of butter, the hard boiled yolk of 2 eggs, a little pepper, some finely chopped parsley.202 Pound all the ingredients together, then pass through, a sieve. Make a circle of very finely chopped hard boiled white of egg round each crouton, put a little pointed mound of the anchovy mixture in the centre, sprinkle over with the the parsley and serve. CROUTONS. Cut some stale bread in small rounds about a J of an inch in thickness and fry in boiling fat a pretty golden colour. DEVILLED BISCUITS.—BISCUITS AU DI ABLE. Ingredients.i—Some small captain biscuits, anchovies, cayenne pepper, and a little hot pickle sauce. Make the cheese into a paste with the anchovies boned, and washed, and the pickle sauce. Butter the biscuits well, sprinkle a little cayenne pepper on each, spread the top of each biscuit with the mixture, grill them and serve very hot. COD ROE SAVOURY —LATTANCES DE CABILLAUD. Ingredients.—Cod roe, buttered toast, milk or gravy, pepper and salt. Soak the roe in hot water for 3 hours. Then take off the outer skin and chop the roe very finely. Put it into a sauce- pan with sufficient gravy to moisten it, season with pepper and salt, spread it on the hot toast and serve at once. CHEESE FONDUE.—FONDUE. Ingredients.—4 eggs, Jib. of Cheshire, Gloucester, or Parmesan cheese, a teaspoonful of mustard, Jib. of butter, pepper and salt to taste. Beat the yolks of the eggs in a bowl to a cream, grate the cheese, break the butter in small pieces, add to the eggs with mustard and pepper and salt. Beat the mixture very203 thoroughly. Now whisk the ,whites of eggs, stir them lightly in, and pour the mixture into a souffle dish only Half full as the fondue should rise considerably. Slip the dish into a silver souffle, but if you have not this, pin a napkin paper round it and serve at once. CHEESE BISCUITS.—BISCUITS AU FROMAGE. Ingredients.—Jib. of flour, 3ozs. of butter, 3ozs. grated cheese the yolks of 2 or 3 eggs, cayenne pepper, and salt. Rub the flcur and butter together, then add the cheese, pepper and salt, mix in the eggs then roll out the paste to the thickness of an eighth of an inch, cut out in small rounds with a pastry cutter, and bake in a quick oven for 10 minutes. CZARINA RELISH.—FROMAGE RUSSE. RUSSIAN RECIPE. Ingredients.—1 clove of garlic or shallot, 4 washed and boned anchovies, their weight in cheese, a little butter, a •alt spoonful of mustard, cayenne pepper, and salt. Pound the garlic, anchovies, cheese;, butter, and seasoning to a very smooth paste, shape into small balls, and serve with nice thin toast. It is also very nice spread on thin brown bread and butter. Sham Caviar is made in the same manner by adding some finely chopped parsley, lemon juice, and 1 or 2 drops of the best salad oil. Serve in the same manner. CURRIED CROUTONS.—CROUTONS A LTNDIENNE. Ingredients.—Croutons, 4 or 5 boned and washed ancho- vies, curry paste, a few drops of lemon juice, a little cliutnee, cayenne pepper, butter. Pound the anchovies very finely, and add then the above ingredients which must bo regulated by the heat of the “ devil ” dc-sired. Cover the croutons with a layer of thi» mixture and serve very hot.204 EGGS A LA TRIPE— CEUFS AU FROMAGE. Ingredients.—3 or 6 hard-boiled eggs, for the same, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, 2ozg. of Parmesan cheese, pepper, salt, and mustard to taste, butter the size of a walnut, cream or milk. Cut the whites of the eggs in pieces f of an inch long, and pass the yolks through a wire sieve. Make the b&uce and add sufficient cream to make it the thickness of white sauce. When boiled put in the whites of eggs, make them thoroughly hot, pour the contents of the saucepan on to a dish, sprinkle the yolks over, put into the oven to warm and serve very hot. EGGS AU GRATIN.—CEUFS AU GRATIN. Ingredients.—Hard-boiled eggs, Parmesan cheese, black pepper to taste, finely chopped parsley, baked breadcrumbs. Cut the eggs in slices, and put them on a well buttered dish, sprinkle over with the grated cheese, then the parsley, and cover with breadcrumbs, and place here and there on the top some small pieces of butter. Put the dish m the oven and serve when the contents have taken a nice colour. EGGS AND MUSHROOMS.—CEUFS AU CHAMPIGNONS. Ingredients.—4 fresh eggs, 2ozs. of butter, a large table- spoonful of chopped mushrooms, a little finely-chopped ham, pepper and salt to taste. Break the eggs into a basin and beat them well, melt the butter in a stewpan, then add the eggs to it, the mush- rooms, ham, and seasoning. Keep stirring the mixture nil the time till it is quite thick then pour it on squares of hot buttered toast and serve at once. GREEN BUTTER. Inoredients—2 or 3ozs. parsley, the same quantity of anchovies washed and boned, 4ozs. of fresh butter.205 Wash and carefully pick the parsley and pound it thoroughly with tho anchovies. Rub through a sieve, then mix it with the butter. Shape into small balls and serve with hot toast. HADDOCK CROUTONS.—CROUTES DE MERLUS. Ingredients.—Dried haddock, oysters, mussels or cockles, lemon juice, and cayenne pepper, a little parsley. After the haddock is cooked carefully remove all bones and skin from the haddock, pound it in a mortar wich a little melted butter, then rub it through a wire sieves Have ready some fried croutons, and on each crouton place a bearded oyster, seasoned with the lemon and cayenne, cover this with a little heap of the haddock mixture. Place the croutons on a baking tin, cover with a buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven for 7 or 8 minutes, sprinkle over a very little finely minced parsley and serve very hot. HERRING’S ROE AND MUSHROOMS.—L AIT AN CES DE HARENG AUX CHAMPIGNONS. Ingredients.—Mushrooms (1 for each person), hot but- tered toast, soft roes, pepper and salt. Cut the toast in rounds to fit the mushrooms which should be as much the same size as possible. Place a fried mush- room on each round, and on this put a piece of roe previously lightly fried, season with pepper and salt. Put in the oven for a minute or two and serve very hot. HERRING MARBLES—PETITS BOULES D’HARENG. Ingredients.—Fresh herrings, butter, a little very finely chopped parsley, and, when liked, an atom of onion. Boil the herrings and when cold remove all skin and bone and pound in a mortar with the other ingredients. Shape into balls and servo with rusks or toast. Shrimps are very nice done this way but the onion should be omitted and 2 drops of anchovy sauce added.206 FILLETS OF HERRINGS.—FILETS DE HARENGS. Ingredients.—Prepared fillets of herrings (obtainable at any good grocer), lettuce, olives, anchovy paste, croutons. Shred the lettuce very finely, also the olives, and mix the lettuce with a little thick mayonnaise sauce. Fry the croutons in the usual way and spread on each a thin layer •of anchovy paste. Put a little pile of the salad in the centre and curl round it the fillet of herring. Serve on a bed of mustard and cress. HERRINGS' ROES A LTNGENNE.—LAITANCES D’HARENGA A LTNGENNE. Ingredients.—Herrings’ roes, lemon juice, hot buttered -toast, chopped parsley, pepper. Cook the roes in a buttered tin, sque?eze a little lemon juice over them, place them on the toast, sprinkle with .parsley and pepper, and serve very hot. INDIAN SANDWICHES. Ingredients.—The white of chicken, pheasant, or rabbit, 4 olives, anchovies washed and boned.. A little hot pickle, a large tablespoonful of thick mayonnaise sauces. Mince the chicken, olives, anchovies, and pickle very small, put them into a basin, ,add the ^mayonnaise sauce, and mix them well together. Cut some thin slices of bio vn bread and butter, put a layer of this mixture between each slice, cut into neat shapes and serve on a dish garnished with mustard and cress. IMPERIAL SANDWICHES. Ingredients. — White of chicken, anchovy paste, gherkins. Spread some thin bread and butter with a layer of anchovy, then on this place alternate strips of chicken and gherkin, make into sandwiches and serve as in preceding recipe. These are delicious and taste like oysters.207 LAX CROUTONS. Ingredients. — Lax, cucumber, chopped tarragon, croutons, loz. of butter, cayenne pepper. Pound the lax in a mortar with the butter, and a very little cayenne pepper, cut the cucumber in thin slices, season with a little oil, vinegar and pepper, and place a, slice on each' crouton which should be the same size as the cucumber. On this spread a layer of th.9 lax and sprinkle over some very finely chopped tarragon or parsley. MARROW TOAST. Ingredients.—1 or more marrow bones, a small round or square of toast for each person, cayenne pepper, salt. Coil the marrow bone in the usual way for 2 hours. Scoop out the marrow, spread it thickly on the toast, season with pepper, and salt, and put into the oven for a few minutes and serve very hot. The toast can be thinly spread with bloater paste and gives a very nice relish. MUSHROOM MARROW TOAST. Ingredients.—Flap mushrooms, marrow toasfy pepper and salt, buttered toast. Fry the mushrooms (1 for each person) and place one on each round of toast, which should exactly fit, cover a small circle of the mushroom with the marrow, season with pepper and salt, and serve very hot. MARROW FRITTERS. Ingredients.—Marrow, batter, pepper and salt. Blanch the marrow by putting it into a pan of cold water, with a handful of salt, and the moment the water boils take out the marrow. Dip a small portion of marrow seasoned with pepper and salt into nice light battor, put the fritters into boiling fat, fry a nice golden colour and serve very hot.208 NUN’S BEADS. Ingredients.—2ozs. grated Parmesan cheese, whites of 2 eggs, salt and cayenne pepper. Beat the eggs to a stiff froth, then mix in the cheese, sait, and cayenne to taste. Shape into very small balls and fry in boiling fat till they are a pretty colour. Serve on a bed of grated Parmesan cheese. OYSTERS A LA CECIL.—HUITRES A LA CECIL. Ingredients.—Oysters, butter, flour, pepper, salt, bread- crumbs, white stock. Blanch the oysters, beard them and strain the liquor. Put2ozs. of butter (to 12 large oysters) into a stewpan when melted dredge in sufficient flour to dry it up. Now add the oyster liquor and stock, boil for a few minutes, put the oysters in and season. Butter some very small china shells, fill them with the oysters and liquor, cover wiih bread- crumbs and drop oiled butter over, brown them in the oven and serve very hot with grated Parmesan cheese. OYSTER FRITTERS.—BEIGNETS D’HUITRES. Ingredients.—1 pint of fine oysters, 4 eggs, 3 or 4 spoon- fuls of flour, \ a pint of new milk, lard, pepper and salt. Blanch the oysters, beard them and lay them on a cloth to dry the liquor from them. Make the batter by break- ing the eggs into a basin, beat them up with a spoon, then add the flour and mix thoroughly together. When this is done drop in the milk little by little, mixing all the time, then put in the oysters. Make some lard quite hot in a stewpan, then put in the oysters one at a time, take them out with a sharp skewer, fiy a nice golden colour and serve very hot. Lemon and cayenne pepper should be handed round. OYSTER OMELET—OMELETTE AUX HLITRES. Ingredients.—A few chopped oysters, the yolks of £ eggs, and the whites of 4, a little chopped parsley, thyme, pepper and salt, of a pint of cream, 2ozs. of butter.209 Break the eggs iiito a basin and add the herbs, pepper, and salt. Beat all together for 6 minutes, then put in the cream Break the butter into an omelet pan and when melted put in the omelet and keep stirring it about till it begins to set, add the oysters, then gather it up together with a slice and when sufficiently done dish at once. Chopped ham or mushrooms are also very nice. ORLEANS OMELET. Ingredients.- -4 tablespoonfuls of French beans, boiled and cut in pieces, yolks of 8 eggs, whites of 4, 2oz. of butter, 4 tablespoonfuls: of grated Parmesan cheese, pepper and salt. Well beat the eggs, stir the beans into them, add the cheese and seasoning, when well mixed proceed as above. OYSTERS A LA INDIANOPOLIS. A GREAT RELISH. Ingredients.—For 100 oysters of the largest kind 1 gill of vinegar, 1 gill of sherry, 3 bladesi of maoe, high seasoning of whole white pepper, a little salt, croutons of caviar. Open the oysters, put them in a pan on the fire to make hot but do not on any account let them boil. Take them olF and strain the liquor through a tammy. Beard the oysters and put them into cold water while the pickle is making. For this add the oyster liqueur to the vinegar, sherry, mace, pepper and salt and boil for ^ an hour. Lay the oysters on a cloth, make them quite dry, then add them to the pickle, boil them for one minute, strain from the pickle and when quite cold serve on the caviar croutons. OLIVES A L’ESPAGNOLE.—OLIVES A L’ESPAGNOLE Ingredients.—Olives (1 for each person), fried croutons, caviar, 6 boned and washed anchovies, the hard-boiled yolk of 1 egg, loz. of butter. Pound the anchovie3 and butter together to a smooth paste, then rub the mixture through a fine wire sieve, and210 have ready some nicely fried croutons. Spread a layer of caviar on each., put the anchovy mixture into a forcing bag and force a small quantity of it into the olives which°have previously had the seed removed. Place one in the centre of each crouton, and sprinkle the yolk of egg passed through a sieve on the caviar. Serve. SAVOURY SHRIMPS.—CllEVETTES A LA BRETAGNE. Ingredients.—h pint of shelled shrimps, loz of butter, a dessertspoonful of flour, £ pint of milk, the raw yolk of 1 egg, hot buttered toast, cayenne pepper. Put the butter in a pan, and when melted stir into it the flour, add the in ilk, and when quite smooth put in the shrimps and egg. Stir till the mixture is thoroughly hot, season with cayenne and pom- on to rounds or squares of toast. Serve very hot. SHRIMP ROLLS. Ingredients.—Brown bread and butter, shelled shrimps. Cut some bread from a loaf that is fresh, but not too new and on each slice sprinkle some shrimps, roll up each slice, being careful that the rolls are all the same size. Make a pile of these on a bed of mustard and cress and serve. A layer of anchovy paste can be spread on the bread and butter, and a little chopped watercress sprinkled over the shrimps, or a layer of caviar, omitting the watercress, is very nice. SAN REMO RELISH. Ingredients.—Fried croutons, caviar, chopped cucumber, yolk of hard-boiled egg. Spread each crouton with a layer of caviar, put a little pile of chopped cucumber in the centre, and round this sprinkle the yolk of egg which has been passed through a sieve. The cucumber should be seasoned with lemon juice, and pepper when liked.211 SAVOURY SAUSAGE. Ingredients.—Fried sausages, chopped parsley, grated Parmesan cheese, cayenne pepper, hot buttered toast. Fry the sausages, skin them and pound them in a mortar with the above ingredients. Spread on small squares of toast, make very hot in the oven and serve at once. DEVILLED SARDINES. Ingredients.—Sardines, cayenne pepper, hot buttered toast. Drain the sardines and put one on a strip of toast, season rather highly with cayenne pepper and put in the oven till hot through. Serve at once. TOMATO DELIGHT. Ingredients.—To every lib of tomatoes allow 6ozs. of butter, cayenne and salt to taste, pigs brains, hot buttered toast. Put the tomatoes into a stewpan with the butter, pepper, and salt, and when they are quite tender rub them through a fine sieve. Fry the brains, then spread the toast with the tomato mixture), and in the centre put a small portion of brain. Re-heat in the oven and serve very hot. TOMATO OMELET. GERMAN RECIPE. Ingredients.—6 eggs, 2 dessertspoonfuls of thick cream, 2ozs. of butter, pepper and salt, 4 tomatoes cut in uuall pieces. Break the eggs into a basin, beat them thoroughly well up, then add the cream and seasoning. Break the butter into an omelet pan and when it is melted pour in the omelet, keep stirring it about till it is half set, then add the toma- toes, fold the omelet over and when sufficiently done serve at onc&. ■Section XIII. ICES.215 ICES. ALMOND ICE.—GLACE D’AMANDES. Ingredients.—iozs. of sweet almonds, 6 bitter ones, 1 pint of milk, 6ozs. of sugar, orange flower water, yolks of 6 eggs, 1 pint of whipped cream. Blanch the almonds and pound them in a mortar with sufficient orange flower to make them into a paste. Gra- dually stir in the milk sweetened with the sugar, then strain through a fine napkin. To this mixture add the yolks of eggs and the cream well whipped. Pour into a shape and freeze. Full directions are given with each different kind of freezer. ICED ALMOND PUDDING.—POUDING D’AMANUES GLACE. Ingredients.—3 large cups of milk, 8 eggs, |lb. of sugar, Pb. of sweet and 2ozs. of bitter almonds, a saltspoonlui of salt. Put the milk into a lined saucepan, well beat the eggs and add them with the sugar and the almonds which should have been blanched and shred very fine. Put in the salt and stir the mixture over the fire till it thickens’, but on no account let it boil. When sufficiently thick pour into a mould, freeze and serve with a fruit macedoine. APRICOT ICE CREAM.—GLACE D’ABRICOTS. Ingredients.—Tinned apricots, 6ozs. of sugar, j pint of apricot syrup, 1 pint of rich custard. Put 1 2 apricots into a basin with the syrup and the sugar. Mix and then rub through a fine sieve. Add the pulp to the custard, pour into a mould, freeze and serve.216 CHOCOLATE CREAM ICE.—GLACE AU CHOCOLAT Ingredients.—6ozs. of the finest chocolate, 2 pints of milk, the yolks of 6 and the whites of 2 eggs, Sozs. of loaf sugar, a saltspoonful of salt, \ pint of whipped cream, vanilla flavouring. Dissolve the chocolate in 1 pint of the milk, pour it into a lined saucepan, add the eggs, sugar, salt, and milk. Stir over the fire until the mixture thickens, but on no account let it come to boiling point. Strain the custard, add the cream and flavouring. Pour into a mould, freeze and serve. COFFEE ICE.—GLACE AU CAFE. Ingredients.—1 cupful of very strong coffee, 1 pint of milk, 6ozs. loaf sugar, the yolks of 5 eggs, J pint of whipped cream. Put the coffee, milk, and sugar in a lined saucepan, let it boil, then put it on one side to get cold, then strain it to the yolks of eggs, and stir on the fire till the mixture thickens. When cold work in the cream, and freeze in the usued manner. Coffee ice may be made exactly the same as in preceding recipe for chocolate ice. GRAPE ICE—GLACE DE RAISIN. Ingredients.—1 cupful of grapes, lib. of sugar, 1 quart of water, whites of 6 eggs, Mash the grapes and sugar. ICED SOUFFLE.—SOUFFLE GLACE. Ingredients.—The yolks of 6 and the whites of 3 eggs, 2ozs. of sugar, and i a pint of whipped cream Lint a souffle dish with white paper, which should reach about 2 inches above tho tin, whip the yolks of eggs and the whites to a stiff froth with the sugar, and whatever flavouring preferred, over hot water till the mixture is like butter, then immediately put it on ice and continue oeah ing till quite cold. Then add tho cream, pour into the souffle tin, nearly filling it to the top of the paper, and freeze.•217 ORANGE ICE.—GLACE D’ORANGES. Ingredients.—The thin rind of 3 oranges, the juice' of 2, the yolk of 4 eggs, 8ozs. of powdered sugar, 1 pint of milk, | pint of whpped cream. Boil the orange rinds in the milk. Let the milk get cold stir it to the eggs in a bain marie, and keep stirring on the fire till the custard thickens. Dissolve the sugar in the orange juice, and gradually stir into it the custard pre- viously strained. Finally stir in the cream, pour into a mould and freeze. PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM.—GLACE D'ANNANAS. Ingredients.—Tinned pineapple, custard. Pineapple ice is made in exactly the same manner as apri- cot ice, but where fresh fruit is used to 1 pineapple, chopped small and pounded in a mortar, should be allowed £lb. of loaf sugar to h ,a pint of water. Boil this, skim it, and pour the hot syrup over the pineapple pulp. When well mixed, pass through a tammy and when cold add the custard to the pulp and freeze in the usual manner. Peach ice is prepared in the same manner. ICED PINEARPLE PUDDING.—POTIDING D’ANNANAS GLACE Ingredients.—Custard, stale sponge cake, brandy, maraschino or noyeau, 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of preserved chopped pineapple, the same of dried cherries. Make a custard as in preceding recipes. Put a mould in ice and pour into it a little custard, when partially set. ar- range on it some pineapple and cherries, on this lay a slice of sponge cake soaked in any of the above liqueurs, or if pre- ferred m thick cream, continue the process till the mould is full and when quite frozen serve. Another way is to freeze the custard first, proceeding in the same manner and where cream is used fiavoui with vanilla.218 PISTACHIO CREAM ICE. Ingredients.—6ozs. of pistachio nuts, 8ozs. of sugar, the grated rind of \ a lemon, 1 pint of milk, the yolks of 7 eggs, £ pint of whipped cream, spinach colouring. Blanch the nuts and pound them in a mortar with the lemon rind and sugar, when become a very smooth paste add the milk gradually mix well and work in the eggs. "When cold strain the custard through a tammy, colour it a pretty pale green, add the cream and freeze. STRAWBERRY ICE. Ingredients.—To every 21b. of fresh strawberries allow 12ozs. of sugar, and to every pint of juice allow 2 pints of double cream, a little cochineal. Pound the strawberries in a mortar with the sugar, then strain the juice through a fine cloth and colour it a pretty pink with the cochineal. Whip the cream to a stiff froth, gradually mix it with the strawberry juice and freeze. When fresh strawberries are not obtainable mix a pot of the best jam with the juice of a lemon, a little water and a few drops of cochineal. Strain the strawberry syrup, and add the cream asi above. RASPBERRY ICE. Raspberries, gooseberries, and currants can be treated as in above recipe. VANILLA ICE.--GLACE A LA VANILLE. Ingredients.—1 pint of milk, 6ozs. of sugar, essence of vanilla, yolks of 6 eggs, J pint of whipped cream. Boil the milk and sugar together, and when cold make the custard according to preceding recipes. When the custard is made add flavouring to taste, freeze as usual and serve.Section XIV. BEVERAGES.221 BEVERAGES. MULLED ALE. LADY C.’S RECIPE. Ingredients.—5 eggs to 1 quart of ale, pounded sugar, according to taste. Beat up the eggs, yolks and -whites together with the sugar. Warm the ale, then put the eggs and ale into a saucepan, stir all the time till it is nearly boiling, but don’t let it boil, then pour the “ mull ” backwards, and forwards 3 times from the saucepan to a hot jug, and it is ready. Grated nutmeg is often added. BLACKBERRY SYRUP. Ingredients.—To every pint of blackberry juice allow lib. of loaf sugar, ^oz. of powdered cinnamon, ^oz. of mace, a small teaspoonful of cloves and a wineglassful of brandy. Boil all thq above ingredients together -with the exception of the brandy for 15 minutes. Then strain through fine muslin, add the brandy and bottle. CLARET CUP. Ingredients.—To every bottle of claret allow 1 of soda water, 1 of lemonade, | a wineglassful of brandy, a liqueur glassful of maraschino, a sprig of buroge, a little cucumber peel. The two last named ingredients should be allowed to re- main in the claret cup for 10 minutes and it should then be sweetened to taste, and in warm weather iced.222 CLARET CUP. OLD RECIPE. Ingredients.—2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 1 bottle of claret, 1 bottle of soda water, 2 wineglasses of sherry, 2 liqueur glasses of brandy, 2 ditto of curagoa, sliced cucum- ber and a sprig of buroge when obtainable. CHAMPAGNE CUP. OLD RECIPE. Ingredients.—1 bottle of champagne, 2 bottles seltzer or soda water, 2 sliced oranges!, a bunch of balm, ditto of buroge, loz. of powdered sugar . Put these ingredients in. a jug for \ an hour and then decanter it free from the herbs. CHAMPAGNE CUP. Ingredients.—1 bottle of champagne, 1 bottle of seltzer water, £ a wineglassful of brandy, a liqueur glassful of ouragoa, sugar to taste. Mix well together and keep in ice till wanted. CURRANT SHRUB. OLD RECIPE. Ingredients.—To every 10 gallons of whisky allow 10 quarts of red gooseberries, 10 quarts of red currants, 1 quarts of raspberries, sugar to taste. Let these ingredients stand for 2 or 3 months then strain and bottle. WHITE CURRANT WINE. OLD RECIPE. Ingredients.—To every 31bs. of white currants allow 2 quarts of water, and to evert' gallon of liqueur allow 2|lbs. lump sugar, and i pint of brandy. Bruise the currants, add the water and allow it to stan for 2 days. Then strain through a sieve, add the sugar223 and stand again for 3 days. Now put the liqueur into cask, and mix into it the proportion given of brandy. The wine is bast made in large tubs. DANDELION BEER. DERBYSHIRE RECIPE. Ingredients.—1 Albs, of dandelion roots, 2 quarts of water, lib of brown sugar, halfpennyworth of ground ginger, ditto of yeast. Boil the roots in 2 gallons of water for 1 horn*, strain and add to the liquid the ginger, yeast, which should have been soaked in a little cold water) and sugar. To this mixture add 14 gallons of cold water and put it into a warm place to ferment for 6 hours. Then bottle and cork it tightly and it will be ready for use in a few hours. Most excellent for the digestiou and as a tonic. ELDERBERRY WINE. FARM HOUSE RECIPE. Ingredients.—To 4 gallons of elderberry juice allow ^lb. of bruised ginger, 81bs. of Demerara sugar, ioz. of cloves, juice and peel of two lemons, and 4 sticks of well bruised rhubarb. Gather the berries when very ripe and cover them wkh water in a preserving pan. Bring to the boil and let them simmer for 15 minutes. The fruit will drop to the bottom when done enough. Then strain and allow the above pro- portions to the juice when cold. Bring once more to the boil, strain again, put into a stone jar and cork down well. \\ hen brandy is liked add 4 of a pint to each gallon of wine. EGG WINE. OLD RECIPE. Ingredients.—1 quart of water, cinnamon to taste, 1 quart of French white wine, the yolks of C eggs, lump sutrar to taste. Boil the water, cinnamon, and wine together, and when at224 boiling point take out the cinnamon. Beat the eggs Tell and add to them by degrees a little more wine. Add this to the first mixture, sweeten to taste and let the whole come almost to a boil, stirring all the time with a whisk. Pour into a jug and brew it to and fro to raise a froth and serve in glasses. Sherry can be used instead of white wine. GINGER BEER COUSIN B.’S RECIPE. Ingredients.—lib. lump sugar, 1 gallon boiling water, foz. of ginger, 1 sliced lemon, 1 tablespoonful of yeast. Bruise the sugar and ginger and as soon as the water boils pour it on to the sugar, ginger, and lemon. Stir well and when nearly cool add the yeast. Let it stand for 20 hours, then strain, bottle, and tie down the corks. It will be ready for use in a few days. The proportion of ginger and lemon can of course be increased according to taste. GINGER CORDIAL. Ingredients.—To every quart of whisky or brandy al- low the rind and juice of a lemon, and 3 oranges, 2ozs. of bruised ginger (or less, according to taste), and to every quart of liqueur allow lib. of lump sugar. Put the whisky, lemon juice, and rind, oranges, and gin- ger into a jar, seal up tightly and let the mixture remain for 2 days giving the jar an occasional vigorous shake. Now strain through flannel, add the sugar, pour back into the jar, and again seal tightly. Let the mixture stand till the sugar has melted, then carefully strain through filtering paper and bottla GINGER LIQUEUR. Ingredients.—libs, lump sugar, 1 pint of boiling water, 5ozs. sweet almonds, 4ozs. of bitter almonds, 5ozs. bruised ginger, rinds of 6 lemons, 1 gallon of whisky.225 Dissolve the sugar in the water, then add the almonds, ginger, and lemon rinds. Mix these ingredients with the whisky, and let it stand for a, week, then strain carefully (through filtered paper is best) and bottle. GINGER WINE. OLD JAMAICA RECIPE. Ingredients.—To 16 gallons of spring water allow 7ibs. of the best brown sugar, the juice and peel of 2 lemons, 2ozs. of ginger, 2 spoonfuls of yeast, \ of an oz. of isinglass. Boil the water and sugar together for \ of an hour, skim- ming it well. Let the liqueur get cold, and then squeeze in the lemon juice. Boil the peel with the ginger and 3 pints of water for 1 hour, and when it is cold put all to- gether in a clean barrel with the yeast and isinglass "beat very thin, close up the barrel and let it stand for 7 weeks and then bottle it. This wine is much used m the West Indies, and is particularly serviceable in spasms and internal pains. GREEN GOOSEBERRY WINE.—YIN DE GROSEILLE. OLD RECIPE. Ingredients.—To every 46 quarts of green gooseberries fit fiir bottling allow 46 quarts of cold water, and to every gallon of liqueur allow nibs. of lump sugar. Pound the gooseberries well, add the water to them, and let them lie in this state for 24 hours, then strain off the liqueur, and to ever}7 gallon allow the given proportion of sugar. When the sugar is quite dissolved “ tun ” it, ob- serving to keep back some of the liqueur in order to fill up the vessel according as it works, which it will not begin to do for a week or more. After 48 hours add enough of the liqueur to keep the cask full, skimming it once a day. Each time you skim it fill up the cask with more liqueur and when quite done working stop the cask close. Leave it for 6 months, and when clear, bottle.226 LEMONADE.— LIMONADE. GRANNIE’S RECIPE. Ingredients.—To 3 pints of cold water, allow 14ozs. of lump sugar, the rinds of 4 lemons, and 1 pint of lemon juice. Mix the water and sugar together. Pare the lemon rinds very thin and steep them in the water for \ an hour, then add the lemon juice freshly squeezed and strained, after which strain all through a jelly bag and use. It should not be made long before required. NOYEAU.—NOYEAU. OLD RECIPE. Ingredients.—To a quart of old whisky allow the rind of 3 large lemons, loz. of bitter almonds, Jib. pounded lump sugar, 3 tablespoonfuls of boiling milk. Pare the lemons, blanch and pound the almonds, add the sugar and when all is well mixed, add the milk. Cork the bottle in preferably a glass jar very closely, let it lie 3 weeks, shaking it every day, then filter it through a sheet of white brown paper (now called filtering paper) and it is fit to me. ORANGE WINE.—YIN D’ORANGES. OLD RECIFE. Ingredients.—20 gallons of water, 541bs. of best Jamaica sugar, the whites of 16 eggs., rinds of 14 dozen oranges, 12 quarts of orange juicei, 2 gallons of brandy. Take the water, sugar, and whites of eggs well beaten up, mix all together and boil well, skimming it while any scum rises. Pare the oranges as thinly as possible, and when the liqueur is well boiled take it up and pour it on the orange rinds. Let it stand till nearly cold, then strain 12 quarts of orange juice into it, then strain the liqueur before it is qute cold. Make it work well, stir- ring it as you would beer, twice a day for 3 days. T-hen strain out the rinds, “ tun ” (cask) it when done working, add the brandy, stop it close and let it stand for 7 oi 3 months before you bottle it. This quantity will make J a oar ref of wine.ORGEAT—ORGEAT. Ingredients.—3 pints, of water, Ub. pearl barley, 4ozs of sweet and loz. of bitter almonds, lib. of powdered loa sugar, 1 wineglassful orange flower water. Boil the barley in the water till it is quite dissolved, then strain the water and let it cool. Steep the almonds in cold water till their skins can be removed. Put a little oi the sugar in a mortar with the almonds and pound them to a paste. Then gradually add rather more than a pint of the barley water and the rest of the sugar. Mix well with the pestle till the sugar is dissolved. Then add the orange flower water. Strain through a fine napkin and bottle for use. A small quantity of this in seltzer or soda water makes a very pleasant drink. ORANGE BRANDY LIQUEUR. Ingredients.—To the rind of 18 Seville oranges allow 1 gallon of brandy, and 3|lbs. brown sugar candy. Cut the rinds very thinly and put them and the brandy into a jar and close very tightly, let it remain this way for 6 weeks, shaking it now and then. At the end of this time strain off the brandy from the peel and add the sugar candy. When this is quite dissolved strain it through filtering paper and bottle. Cork very tightly, and if possible keep for 2 years, in fact the longer kept the better it is. RHUBARB WINE.—YIN DE RHUBARBE. Ingredients.—To every gallon of cold water allow 51bs. of rhubarb, and to every gallon of liqueur allow 41bs. of raw sugar, loz. of bruised ginger, J of an oz. of isinglass. Cut the rhubarb in small squares and put it and the water into a wooden tub. Let it stand for 8 or 9 days, stir- ring it each day 3 times. At the end of this time strain it and to every gallon of liqueur allow the above given pro- portion of sugar. Now put into a clean dry cask and when it has done working add the ginger and isinglass. Cio«, the cask down.228 HOT PUNCH. OLD BACHELOR’S RECIPE. Ingredients.—1 very fresh large lemon, boiling water, lump sugar, brandy, rum. Put into a | pint tumbler the very thin rind of the lemon and fill it up with boiling water, squeeze the juice of the lemon in a second tumbler of the same size and fill it nearly to the brim with lump sugar and pour in as much boiling water as the tumbler will hold, when the sugar in hi it tumbler has melted turn the contents of both tumblers into a hot jug, stir into the jug a tablespoonful of guava or fine currant jelly (whilst doing this keep the jug in hot water) mixing thoroughly together and add to it as much spirit as pleasant in the proportion of 2 glasses of brandy to 1 of run. To be successful the punch must be very well mixed and very hot. RASPBERRY VINEGAR.—SYRUP DE FRAMBOISE. Ingredients.—1 quart of best white wine, vinegar, 41'bs. raspberries* to every pint of raspberry liqueur allow 1 ill), double refined sugar. Pour the vinegar on 21bs. of the raspberries, which shouid not be over ripe, leave for 24 hours, then strain of? the liqueur through a hair sieve without bruising the fruit. Put the same liqueur on to the other 21bs. of raspberries and let this remain also for another 24 hours. Strain of? as before, being careful not to bruise the fruit in the least. Now to every pint of liqueur allow the given proportion of sugar and put it into a well glazed pickling pot which put into a kettle of warm water over the fire till the sugar is dissolved, then let it cool and skim of? all the dross of the liqueur, and when quite cold bottle it off. 1 tablespoonful of this in a tumbler of fresh water makes a most refreshing drink. STRAWBERRY SHERBET.—SORBET DE FRAISES Ingredients.—To 2 quarts of strawberries, allow G pints of water. 2 tablespoonfuls of orange flower water, and i l lbs of pounded white sugar.•2-29 First hull and then crush the strawberries to a smooth pulp, then add all the other ingredients, excepting the sugar and let stand for 3 hours. Now strain it over the sugar and keep stirring until the sugar is dissolved. Strain again through fine muslin, pour into glass jugs and ice thoroughly. Raspberry sherbet can be made in the same way. SLOE GIN. Ingredients.—Equal quantities of sloes and cane sugar-, gin. Pick the sloes all over, put them and the sugar into a jar and fill up with the gin. Fasten tightly and let it re- main for 1 year, then strain the gin through filtering paper and bottle.INDEX.233 INDEX. SOUPS. Austrian ... PAGE 9 Asparagus, Pur^e of 9 Asparagus, Clear 10 Bonne Mhre 10 Belmont ... 10 Beef Tea ... 11 Bally 11 Beef Extract 11 Beau Rivage 11 Boston 12 Barley 12 Cressey ... 13 Consomm6, Clear 13 Clear of Game ... 14 Chicken Consomm6 14 Chicken, Economical ... 14 Calves’ Feet, Puree of ... 15 Crayfish 15 Common Stock .. 16 Celery, Punfe of 16 Flemish ... 16 Fish Stock 17 Grouse, Pur6e of 17 Gravy 18 Giblet 18 Giblet, White .. 19 Hare 20 Lambs’ Tails, Purde of... 20 Lentil 21 Lobster, Bisque of 21 Lobster, another way ... 21 Leek 22 Mutton Broth 22 Mulligatawny ... 22 Maccaroni 23 Mutton Tea 23 Napier 24 Oysters 24 Oysters, another way ... 25 Oxtail 25 Pea Green 25 Soups—continued. PAGE Pumpkin ... 26 Prussian ... ... ... 26 Fea, Puree of ... ... 27 Pearl ... ... ... 27 Rice ... ... ... 27 Rich Stock ... ... 28 Turtle, Mock ... ... 28 Veal Stock ... ... 28 Victoria ... ... ... 29 Vermicelli ... ... 30 Vegetable, Puree of ... 30 White, Puree of 3) White Stock 31 Walnut 31 FISH. Crayfish ... ... ... 35 Carp, Matelotte of ... 35 Carp au Capucin ... 36 Carp k la Rothschild ... 36 Carp h la Bienvenu ... 37 Crab, Dressed ... ... 37 Crab. Iced Souffle of ... 37 Eel, Matelotte of ... 38 Eel Pie 38 Eels au Caporal ... ... 39 Eels Spitchcocked ... 39 Eel, Vol au vent of ... 40 Eels, Stewed ... ... 40 Herrings, Jellied .. 40 Lobster, Dressed ... 41 Lobster, Devilled ... 41 Lobster, Cutlets of ... 41 Lobster, Souffle of ... 42 Mussels, Fritters of .. 42 Oysters, Vol au vent of Oysters, SoufHtS of ... 43 Oysters, Kromeskys of... 43 Salmon, Matelotte of ... 44 Salmon, Curried ... 44 Salmon ii la Printanniere 45Fish—continued. Entrees—continued. I>ACiE Salmon, Pickled ... 45 Soles au Vin Blanc ... 45 Sole au Gratin 46 Sole k la Ravigotte ... 46 Soles, Souchet of ... 46 Soles a la Normande ... 47 Soles, Jewish way ... 47 Soles a la Blanche ... 48 Sole, Mayonaise of ... 48 Shad, Stewed ... .. 48 Sturgeon a la Sturgeon... 49 Sturgeon, Cutlets of ... 50 Turtle, Dressed 50 Turtle ii la Reine ... 51 Turtle k la Couronne ... 51 Turtle, Fricandeau of .. 51 Trout a la Cour ... ... 52 ENTREES. Beef Palates & l’Ameri- caine ... ... 55 Beef Palates a la Ravi- gotte ... ... 55 Beef Palates in Cutlets Beef Palates on Horseback 56 Beef Kidney ... .. 56 Chicken Cream .. ... 56 Chicken Croquettes ... 57 Chicken a la Marengo .. 57 Curry, Indian ... ... 58 Calves’ Feet Fritters .. 58 Calves’Feet a la Castagna 5S < !alves’ Ears it Utalienue 59 Duck, Wild ... ... 59 Duck a la Capitolada ... 59 Fowl, Quenels of ... 60 Fowl ii la Duchess Con- naughi ... .. 60 Fowl, Puiled ... . 61 Fowls, Chaudfroill of ... 61 Giblets, Stewed... ... 62 Kromeskys ... ... 62 Lamb Cutlets k laVilleroi 68 Lambs’ Hearts ... ... 63 Lamb Cutlets in Aspic ... 64 Lamb Cutlets a la Troca- dero ... ... ... 65 Lamb, Tendons of .. 65 Lamb, Feet of ... ... 65 Lamb Cutlets a la Saisou 66 PAGE Larks in Cases ... ... 66 Larks a la Marquise ... 67 Livers in Cases ... .. 67 Larks, Souvaroff of ... 68 Oysters, Little Salads of 68 Plovers’ Eggs & l’Antoin- ette ... ... ... 68 Pheasants, Lollops of ... 69 Pigs’ Feet a la Robert... 69 Patties .. ... ... 70 Partridges, Fillets of ... 71 Partridges, Chartreuse of 71 Partridges, Chaudfroid of 72 Quailsk la York ... ... 72 Ravioli .. ... ... 73 Shrimps, Iced . ... 73 Sweetbreads k la Print- anni&re ... ... 74 Sweetbreads a la Metro- pole ... ... ... 74 Sweetbreads, Due de Nemours ... ... 75 Sweetbreads, Cutlets of... 75 Tomato Eggs ... ... 76 Tomatoes a la Bergere ... 76 Timbale Toscana ... 76 Veal, Boudin of... ... 77 Veal, Blanquette of ... 7S Veal, Tendons of ... 7S Veal, Roulettes of ... 79 Venison, Cutlets of .. 79 MEATS. Beef, Fillet of ... .. 85 Beef, Hunters’ ... ... 83 Beef, Admiral Pocock’s... 84 Beefsteak. Stewed ... S4 Beef, Bally S5 Beef it la Mode .. ... 85 Beefsteak, Chateaubriand 85 Beef, Spiced ... ... 86 Boar's Head ... ... S6 Calf’s Head SS Ham, Braised ... 88 Ham, Cake of ... ... S9 Lamb’s Head ... 89 Lamb la St. Janies ... 89 Lamb, Broiled Bladeboue 90 Lamb, Devonshire Way 90 Pork Pie... ... 91 Raised Pie ... ... 91235 M eats —continued. PAGE Royal Pie ... ... 92 Red Pound .. ... 92 Veal a la Portuegaise ... 92 Veal, P>oulard of ... 93 Veal Bewitched ... ... 93 Veal, Galantine of ... 94 Veal, Fricandeau of ... 94 Venison, Imitation ... 95 Venison Pie .. ... 95 Venison k la Velaftenberg 96 POULTRY AND GAME. Christmas Pie ... ... 99 Chicken h la Marseilles... 100 Chicken, Mayonaise of ... 100 Chicken a la Romaine ... 101 Chicken h la Franfaise... 101 Ducklings ... ... 102 Ducks k la Bruges ... 102 Foul, Wild .. ... 103 Fowl h l’Ang6le ... ... 103 Game Pie... ... ... 103 Hare, Dressed ... ... 104 Hare a la Salisbury ... 105 Hare, Cakes of ... ... 105 Pheasanth la Francaise... 106 Partridge Pudding ... 106 Partridges, Braised ... 106 Partridges aux Choux ... 107 Partridges a l’Allemande *07 Pigeon, Broiled ... ... 108 Pigeons, Compote of ... 108 Pigeons ala Grande Duchess 108 Pigeon Pie ... ... 109 Rabbit h la Chipolata ... 110 Rabbit a la Winchester 110 Roman Pie ... ... Ill Turkey Truffled... .. Ill MEAT JELLIES. Aspic for Garnishing ... 115 Aspic, Richer .. ... 115 Beef jelly... ... ... H6 Jelly, Simple Savoury .. 116 Tomato Aspic ... .„ 116 SAUCES. Braise, White 119 Sauces—continued. Braise, Brown ... PAGE 119 Butter, Melted ... 119 Blonde 120 Brown, Spanish ... r.o Brown, Italian ... 121 Cucumber 121 Capucin ... 121 Chevreuil... 122 Chandfroid 122 Capri 123 Carmen 123 Cheese 123 Cullis 123 Calf’s Head 124 French (Bhchamel) 121 Fennel 125 German ... 125 Green 126 Gooseberry 126 Haricot ... 127 Hamburg... 127 Italian 127 Ketchup, Shallot 127 Ketchup, Walnut 128 Lobster ... 128 Marquise 129 Mayonnaise, French 12!) Mayonnaise 129 Mushroom 130 Mushroom, White 130 Marey 130 Printanniere 131 Port Wine 131 Pink 132 Quin 132 Robert 133 Reine 133 Salad Sauce, Reinoulade Salad, English ... 133 Salad, French ... 134 Salmis 134 Sharp 134 Tournde ... 135 Tomato 135 Tomato 135 Truffle 136 Villeroi 136 Velout6 137 Venetian ... 137 Verona 138 White ... 138Pickles—continued. VEGETABLES. PACE Asparagus, Ragout of .. 141 A rtichokes and Mush- rooms 141 Artichokes a l’ltalienne 142 ArtichokesalaVictoria... 142 Beans, French, a la Francaise ... ... 142 Carrots a la Provencale... 143 Carrots a la Sans Soucie 143 Cucumbers a la Madrigal 143 Cauliflower au Gratin ... 144 Endive 144 Mushrooms h la Pompa- dour 145 Mushrooms, Stewed ... 145 Peas a la Francaise ... 145 Potatoes Maitre d’Hotel 146 Potato Marbles ... ... 146 Potatoes, Savoury ... 147 Potatoes, a l’EEgante ... 147 Spinach ... ... ... 148 Spinach a la Francaise ... 148 Salsifs ... ... ... 148 Salsifs, Scallopped ... 148 Salad of Celery ... ... 149 Salad of Chicken ... 149 Salad of Cherries ... 149 Salad, Continental ... 150 Salad of Endive... ... 150 Salad of Lettuce ... 150 Salad, Italian ... ... 150 Salad, Russian . ... 151 Salad. Tomato ... .. 151 'Tomatoes, Stuffed ... 151 Turnips a la William ... 152 Salad of Oranges ... 152 Salad of Prawns.. ... 152 PICKLES. Apple Chutney ... ... 155 Beans, French .. ... 155 Beetroot ... ... .. 155 Cauliflower .. ... 156 Cabbage, Bed ... ... 156 Gherkins ... ... ... 156 German Delight... ... 157 Indian .. ... ... 157 Mushrooms ... ... 151 Nasturtiums ... ... 158 Onions ... ... ... 158 Oysters ... ... ... 159 Radish Pods PAGE 159 Tomato, Green ... 159 Walnuts ... 160 CONFECTIONERY AND CAKES. Bath Buns 163 Buns, Hot Cross 163 Brandy Snaps 163 Chocolate Caramels 164 Cocoanut Candy... 164 Candied Chestnuts 164 Cherry Cake 165 Cherry Icing 165 EcclesCake 166 Frosted Fruit 166 Genoa Cake 166 Irish Gems 167 Jumbles 167 Lemon Peel, Candied ... 167 Nougat ... 16S Plum Cake 169 Pound Cake 169 Pitrelets ... 170 Rue Cake... 170 Strawberries, Crystallised 170 Shortbread 171 Sponge Cake 171 Scones 171 Sally Lunns 172 Tea Cakes 172 Toffee Almond ... 172 Wedding Cake ... 173 SWEETS. Apples, Compote of 177 Almond Cheese Cakes ... 177 Apples, Charlotte of 17S Apples, Marmalade of ... Apples and Rice... 17S 17S Apples, Floating Island of 179 Apple Jelly 179 Antigua Pudding ISO Apricot Souffle ... ISO Apricot Cream ISO Apricot Jelly 181 Blanc Mange 181 Baba 1S1 Currants k la Dauphine 182237 Sweets— continued. Caramel Pudding l’AGE 182 Cocoanut Pudding 183 Coffee Custard ... 183 Calf’s Foot Jelly 183 Chocolate Cream 1S4 Custards a la Marguerite Chantilly Cake ... Eclairs 184 Fairies’ Delight ... 185 Grape Custard ... 185 Ginger Souffle 187 Lemon Pudding . . 187 Lemon Puff's 188 Lemon Creams ... 188 Maid of Honour Pudding 188 Mince Pies 189 Malvern Pudding 189 Orange Jelly 190 Orange Chartreuse 190 Orange Pudding 191 Princess Pudding 191 Pastry, Short 191 Pastry, Family ... 192 Pastry, Puff 192 Pas-try Delight ... 193 Pineapple Cream 193 Potato Pudding ... 193 Prussian Puddings 194 Pears, Baked 194 Rice, Souffle of ... 194 Strawberry Cream 195 Tapioca Cream ... 195 Torino Tart 195 Treacle Sponge ... 195 Trifle 196 Victoria Cake* ... 197 Victoria Pudding 197 SAVOURIES. Asparagus a la Campag- nard 120 Anchovies and Cream ... 201 Anchovies a la Duchesse 201 Biscuits, Devilled 202 Cod Roe ... 202 Cheese Fondue ... 202 Cheese Biscuits ... 203 Czarina Relish ... 203 Curried Croutons 203 Eggs a la Tripe 204 Savo Okies—continued. PAGE Eggs au Gratin ... ... 204 Eggs and Mushrooms ... 204 Green Butter ... ... 204 Haddock Croutons ... 205 Herring’s Roe ... ... 205 Herring Marbles ... 205 Herrings, Fillet of ... 206 Herrings a l’lng^nne ... 206 Indian Sandwiches ... 206 Imperial Sandwiches ... 206 Lax Croutous ... ... 207 Marrow Toast ... ... 207 Mushroom Marrow Toast 207 Marrow Fritters... ... 207 Nuns Beads ... ... 208 Oysters k la Cecil ... 208 Oyster Fritters ... ... 208 Oyster Omelet ... ... 208 Orleans Omelet ... ... 209 Oysters k la Iudianopolis 209 Olives a l’Espaguole ... 209 Shrimps, Savoury ... 210 Shrimp Rolls ... ... 210 8an Remo Relish ... 210 Sausage, Savoury ... 211 Sardines, Devilled ... 211 Tomato Delight ... ... 211 Tomato Omelet ... .. 211 ICES. Almond Ice ... ... 215 Almond Pudding ... 215 Apricot Cream ice ... 215 Chocolate Cream Ice ... 216 Coffee Ice ... ... 216 Grape Ice... ... ... 216 Iced Souffle ... .. 216 Orange Ice ... ... 217 Pineapple Cream Ice ... 217 Pineapple Pudding, Iced 217 Pistachio Cream Ice ... 218 Strawberry Ice ... ... 218 Raspberry Ice ... ... 218 Vanilla Ice 218 BEVERAGES. Ale, Mulled ... ... 221 Blackberry Syrup ... 221 Claret Cup ... ... 221 Claret Cup, another way 222-:S8 Beverages—continued Champagne Cup Champague Cup, another PAGE 2'M way 090 Currant Shrub ... 222 Currant Wine, White ... 222 Dandelion Beer ... 223 223 Elderberry Wine Egg Wine Ginger Beer 223 224 Ginger Cordial ... 224 Ginger Liqueur ... 224 Ginger Wine 22 5 Beverages—roniinutd Green Gooseberry Wine PAGE 2 25 Lemonade 226 Noyeau ... 226 Orange Wine 226 Orgeat 227 Orange Brandy ... 227 Punch, Hot 228 Bhubarb Wine ... 227 Raspberry Vinegar 228 Strawberry Sherbet 228 Sloe Gin 229^drrtton of (lOlorks PUBLISHED BY HENRY J. QLAISHER, 57, WIGMORE STREET, CAVENDISH SQUARE, LONDON, W. Sm. 4to, Black Cover. Price 6d. net; by Post, 8d. The Nurses Report Book. Compiled by K. H. (Cert.). Containing space for general details at the beginning of the book and for general remarks on the case at the end of the book, and with space for 200 entries of each of the following details: Time, Nourishment, Stimulants, Temperature Pulse, Respiration, Urine, B;0, Sleep, and Remarks Perature Sewed, cr. 8vo. Price, 1/6 net; by Post, 1/8. Consumption • Its Nature and Treatment. BY WILLIAM, H. SPENCER, M.A., M.D. Cantab., M.R.C.P. Lond Consulting Physician to the Bristol Royal Infirmary ■' Formerly Lect urer cm the Principles and Practice of Medicine, and on 1 athology, at University College, Bristol, Medical School. Cloth, cr. 8vo. prjce) I/_ net. by postj ^ Care of Growing Children. BY THOMAS W. NUNN, F.R.C.S. Consulting Surgeon to the Middlesex Hospital. their charL”-^iStrP fi by mothers and others who have children in UtUe >'= Charged hi, “Ifc 18 clearly written."—Lancet.Cloth, cr. 8vo. Price 2/- net; by Post, 2/3. CANCER. Illustrated by Consecutive Cases, and by Selected Cases. Plates of Microscopical Sections. BY THOMAS W. NUNN, F.R.C.S. Consulting Surgeon to the Middlesex Hospital. Price 1/- net. By Post, 1/1. Lord Lister & Surgery. By ROBERT TURNER, M.A., M.D., F.R.C.S., Edin. “ Likely to spread useful information, and give confidence to patients.”— Literary World. Cr. 8vo., Cloth. Price 1/6 net; by post 1/8. Cycling as a Cause of Heart Disease. By GEORGE HERSCHELL, M.D. Lond. Second Edition. Cloth, 8vo. Price, 3/6 ; by Post, 3/10. Thirty-eight Illustrations. On the Study of the Hand For Indications of Local and General Disease. By EDWARD BLAKE, M.D. A new Section on The Pulse—Chloroform Syncope, an improved treatment on purely scientific lines—The Immediate Cure of Engorged Liver. The Bibliographies are exceptionally complete. There is a full and complete Index. Second Edition. Royal 8vo, Cloth. Price 3/6 net; by Post, 3/10 Numerous Illustrations. CO NS TIP A TION And Some Associated Disorders, INCLUDING Recent Observations on Intestinal Innervation; The Venous Hearts. With Sections on Venous Stasis of Abdomen; Piles; Fissure; Pruritus Ani; Rupture and Corpulency. By EDWARD BLAKE, M.D.Cloth, 8vo. Price, i/- net; by Post, i/i. Lip Chorea: A Handbook on the Causes and Treatment of Stammering. By EDWARD BLAKE, M.D. Cloth, 8vo. . Price 5/- net; by Post, 5/4. With Coloured Frontispiece and Illustrations. ASTHMA. Recent Developments in its Treatment. ERNEST KINGSCOTE, M.B., C.M., L.R.C.S. Edin., Fellow of the Medical Society of London, <fsc. Author of “ On So-Called Spasmodic Asthma.” 6d. net; post free. On the Importance of Personal Character in the Profession of Medicine. BY CHARLES J. CULLINGWORTH, M.D., D.C.L., F.R.C.P. Cloth, fcap. 8vo. Price if- net ; by post, 1/2. A New and Greatly Improved Edition of The Human Face as Expressive of Character and Disposition. By R. D. STOCKER, Author of “ A Concordance of Graphology and Physiognomy,” <fcc. Price, 6d. net; by Post, 6}4d. The Genesis of the Soul’ By HEYWOOD SMITH, M.A., M.D. Oxon. Author of “ The Gospel According to Satan." Cr. 8vo. Sewed, 1 /-; Cloth, 1/6. The Gospel according to Satan. By HEYWOOD SMITH, M.A., M.D., Oxon. Fcap. 8vo, Cloth, gilt top, 2/6 net; by Post, 2/8 net. Or sewed, 1/6 net; by Post, 1/8. Excursions in Comedy. By WILLIAM TOYNBEE.Cloth, gilt top, fcap. 8vo. Price 2/6 net; by Post, 2/8. On Oaten Flute, and other Versicles. By WILLIAM TOYNBEE. “ Has a keen eye for the gladness of life and the beauties of Nature/ — World. “ His sonnets have a note of distinction.”—Westminster Review. Cloth, fcap. 8vo. Price 2/6 net ; by post, 2/8. Lyrics from Lazy land. By ELPHINSTONE THORPE. “ The author of this dainty little volume of lyrics has a very pretty gift of song, and succeeds in wedding refined and tender thoughts to melodious and expressive diction.”—Lady's Pictorial. Cr. 8vo. Price, 9d. net; by Post, rod. “A National Disaster& other Stories. By DESBOROUGH. “A National Disaster, by ‘Desborough’ is a little book of four stories, the idea of which is work for others in a life after death—of atone- ment for the dead, of love for the living. The thoughts expressed in it so simply may he a comfort to many a mourner.”—The Guardian. Cheaper Edition, 3/- net; by Post, 3/4. The Life of Our Ladye : Scriptural, Traditional and Topographical. (Eomptlrti from approach sources M. P. WITH PREFACE BY HIS EMINENCE CARDINAL VAUGHAN ARCHBISHOP OF WESTMINSTER. “ I shall quote no more at present from this estimable volume, but leave the reader to gain the many lessons which it teaches from the perusal of the pages oi the original work.”—The Lamp. . , T .. _ . “We welcome with great heartiness this 8 Life of the Blessed \ irgin, which is written in a style well befitting the subject—devotional but clear, temperate and graceful.—The Catholic Times. HENRY J. GLAISHER, Publisher & Bookseller, 37, Wigmore Street, Cavendish Square, Landon, IV.