529 CAKES. CHAP. XXIII.] bun in the foregoing receipt, with a large tablespoonful of good yeast, and about the third of a pint of warm new milk; let it stand for an hour, then strew over and mix well up with it four ounces of pounded sugar; next, dissolve two ounces of butter in a very little milk, cool it down with a few spoonsful of cold milk if needful, and pour it to a couple of well-whisked eggs; with these make the other ingredients into a very light dough, let it stand from three quarters of an hour to an hour, and bake it about the same time in a rather quick oven. Two ounces more of sugar, one of butter, and two of candied orange-rind, sliced thin, will convert this into a good cake, the cocoa-nut imparting great richness as well as flavour to the mixture : the proportion of this can also be regulated by the taste, after the first trial. Flour, 1 lb.; grated cocoa-nut, 3 ozs.; yeast, 1 large table- spoonful ; milk, i of pint: 1 hour. Pounded sugar, 4 ozs.; butter, 2 ozs.; eggs, 2 ; little milk: f to 1 hour. Or: sugar, 6 ozs.; butter, 3 ozs.; candied orange-rind, 2 ozs.; baked nearly or quite an hour. MOST EXCELLENT BUNS. Work into half a pound of flour three ounces of butter, until it is quite in crumbs ; mix thoroughly with them four ounces of sugar, the slightest pinch of salt, an ounce, or rather more, of candied orange or lemon rind, shred extremely small, and a little grated nutmeg; to these pour boiling a small teacupful of cream, or of milk when this cannot be had; mix them a little, and add immediately two eggs, leaving out the white of one, and when the whole is well mingled, dust over, and beat well into it, less than half a teaspoonful of good carbonate of soda, perfectly free from lumps; rub an oven-tin with butter, drop the buns upon it with a spoon, and send them to a moderate oven. When they are firm to the touch in every part, and well coloured underneath, they are done. They resemble good cakes, if properly made, although in reality they are not rich : to render them so the proportion of sugar and of butter can be increased, and currants added also. It is immaterial, we find, whether they be put into the oven as soon as they are mixed, or an hour afterwards. They are equally light. Flour, l lb.; butter, 3 ozs. ; sugar, 4 ozs. ; candied orange- rind, 1 oz. or more; grated nutmeg; cream (or milk) 1 small teacupful; egg-yolks 2, white 1; good carbonate of soda about a third of teaspoonful: 15 to 25 minutes, moderate oven. Obs.—These proportions make just a dozen of small buns. M M