355 FINE PASTRY. CHAP. XVI.] GENOISES X LA REINE, OR HER MAJESTY*S PASTRY. Make some nouilles (see page 5) with the yolks of four fresh eggs, and when they are all cut, as directed there, drop them lightly into a pint and a half of boiling cream (new milk will answer quite as well, or a portion of each may be used), in which six ounces of fresh butter have been dissolved. When these have boiled quickly for a minute or two, during which time they must be stirred to prevent their gathering into lumps, add a small pinch of salt, and six ounces of sugar, on which the rinds of two lemons have been rasped; place the saucepan over a clear and very gentle fire, and when the mixture has sim- mered from thirty to forty minutes take it off, stir briskly in the yolks of six eggs, and pour it out upon a delicately clean baking-tin which has been slightly rubbed in every part with butter; level the nouilles with a knife to something less than a quarter-inch of thickness, and let them be very evenly spread; put them into a moderate oven, and bake them of a fine equal brown : should any air-bladders appear, pierce them with the point of a knife. On taking the paste from the oven, divide it into two equal parts; turn one of these, the under-side upper- most, on to a clean tin or a large dish, and spread quickly over it a jar of fine apricot-jam, place the other half upon it, the brown side outwards, and leave the paste to become cold; then stamp it out with a round or diamond-shaped cutter, and ar- range the genoises tastily in a dish. This pastry will be found delicious the day it is baked, but its excellence is destroyed by keeping. Peach, green-gage, or magrpim bonum jam, will serve for it quite as well as apricot. We strongly recommend to our readers this preparation, baked in patty-pans, and served hot; or the whole quantity made into a pudding. From the smaller ones a little may be taken out with a teaspoon, and replaced with some preserve just before they are sent to table; or they may thus be eaten cold. Nouilles of 4 eggs; cream or milk, 1| pint; butter, 6 ozs.; sugar, 6 ozs.; rasped rinds of lemons, 2; grain of salt: 30 to 40 minutes. Yolks of eggs, 6: baked from 15 to 25 minutes. ALMOND PASTE. For a single dish of pastry, blanch seven ounces of fine Jor- dan almonds and one of bitter ;* throw them into cold water as they are done, and let them remain in it for an hour or two; * When these are objected to, use half a pound of the sweet almonds.