369 BOILED PUDDINGS. CHAP. XVII,] a large pudding of this kind, beyond reducing the quantity of gravy, and rendering it very thick. Some cooks flour the meat slightly before it is laid into the crust, but we do not think it an improvement: where fat is liked, a portion may be added with the lean, but all skin and sinew should be carefully rejected. Beat the steak with a paste roller, should it not appear to be perfectly tender, and divide it into portions about the size of two fingers. Two or three dozens of oysters, bearded and washed free from grit in their own liquor (which should afterwards be strained and poured into the pudding), may be intermingled with the meat. A true epicurean receipt for this dish directs the crust to be made with ^ea/-kidney suet, and filled with alternate layers of the inside of the sirloin, sliced and seasoned, and of fine plump native oysters, intermixed with an occasional small slice of the veal fat. SMALL BEEF-STEAK PUDDING. Make into a very firm, smooth paste, one pound of flour, six ounces of beef-suet, finely minced, half a teaspoonful of salt, and half a pint of cold water. Line with this a basin which holds a pint and a half. Season a pound of tender steak, free from bone and skin, with half an ounce of salt and half a teaspoonfnl of pepper well mixed together; lay it in the crust, pour in a quarter-pint of water, roll out the cover, close the pudding care- fully, tie a floured cloth over, and boil it three hours and a half. We give this receipt in addition to the preceding one, as an exact guide for the proportions of meat-puddings in general. Flour, 1 lb.; suet, 6 ozs.; salt, \ teaspoonful; water, a pint; rump-steak, 1 lb.; salt, \ oz.; pepper, \ teaspoonful; water, i pint: 3| hours. RUTH PINCH S BEEF-STEAK PUDDING. To make Ruth Pinch's celebrated pudding (known also as beef-steak pudding a la Dickens'), substitute six ounces of butter for the suet in this receipt, and moisten the paste with the well- beaten yolks of four eggs, or with three whole ones, mixed with a little water; butter the basin very thickly before the crust is laid in, as the pudding is to be turned out of it for table. In all else proceed exactly as above. SUPERLATIVE BEEF-PUDDING. Take a fine woodcock that is ready for the spit, and put it into the middle of a large beef-pudding, laying the meat under, B B