121 CHAP. IV.] SAUCES. Apples pared and cored, 1 lb.; good brown gravy, third of pint: | to 1J hour. Pepper or cayenne as needed. WHITE ONION SAUCE. Strip the skin from some large white onions, and after having taken off the tops and roots, cut them in two, throw them into cold water as they are done, cover them plentifully with more, and boil them very tender; lift them out, drain, and then press the water thoroughly from them; chop them small, rub them through a sieve or strainer, put them into a little rich melted butter, mixed with a spoonful or two of cream or milk, add a seasoning of salt, give the sauce a boil, and serve it very hot. Portugal onions, when they can be obtained, are superior to any others, both for this and for most other purposes of cookery. Por the finest kind of onion sauce, see Soubise, below. BROWN ONION SAUCE. Cut off both ends of the onions, and slice them into a sauce- pan in which two ounces of butter have been dissolved; keep them stewing over a clear fire until they are lightly coloured; then pour to them half a pint of brown gravy, and when they have boiled until they are perfectly tender, work the sauce alto- gether through a strainer, season it with a little cayenne, and serve it very hot. ANOTHER BROWN ONION SAUCE. Mince the onions, stew them in butter until well coloured, stir in a dessertspoonful of flour, shake the stewpan over the fire for three or four minutes, pour in only as much broth or gravy as will leave the sauce tolerably thick, season, and serve it. SOUBISE. (English Receipt.) Skin, slice, and mince quickly, two pounds’ weight of the white part only of some fine mild onions, and stew them in from two to three ounces of good butter, over a very gentle fire, until they are reduced to a pulp, then pour to them three quarters of a pint of rich veal gravy; add a seasoning of salt and cayenne, if needed; skim off the fat entirely, press the sauce through a sieve, heat it in a clean stewpan, mix it with a quarter-pint of rich boiling cream, and serve it directly. Onions, 2 lbs.; butter, 2 to 3 ozs.: 30 minutes to 1 hour. Yeal gravy, f pint; salt, cayemie: 5 minutes. Cream, i pint.