19 CHAP. I.] SOUPS. extremely fine, and to mix gradually with them boiling gravy- soup (or bouillon) in the proportion of a quart to twelve ounces of the carrot. The soup should then he passed through a strainer, seasoned with salt and cayenne, and served very hot, with fried bread in a separate dish. If only the red outsides of the carrot be used, the colour of the soup will be very bright: they should be weighed after they are pounded. Turnip soup may also be made in the same manner. Soup, 2 quarts; pounded carrot, 11 lb.; salt, cayenne : 5 minutes. A FINER CARROT SOUP. Scrape very clean, and cut away any blemishes from some highly-flavoured red carrots; wash, and wipe them dry. Cut them in quarter-inch slices. Put into a large stewpan three ounces of the best butter, and when it is melted, add two pounds of the sliced carrots, and let them stew gently for an hour with- out browning; pour to them then four pints and a half of brown gravy-soup, and when they have simmered from fifty minutes to an hour, they ought to be sufficiently tender. Press them through a sieve or strainer with the soup ; add salt, and cayenne if required; boil the whole gently for five minutes, take off all the scum, and serve the soup as hot as possible. Send it to table with a dish of bread, cut in dice, and fried. Butter 3 ozs.; carrots 2 lbs.: 1 hour. Soup 4^ pints : 50 to 60 minutes. Salt, cayenne: 5 minutes. Obs.—Three ounces of Scotch, or of pearl barley, soaked for one night, and stewed slowly the next day for an hour and a half, in a quart of broth, then mixed with common carrot soup, will make what is considered, by many persons, an excellent potage. A fashionable variety of this soup is also made by diminishing a little the quantity of carrots, and adding to it three ounces of rice previously swelled in broth till tender. COMMON TURNIP SOUP. Wash and wipe the turnips, pare and weigh them; allow a pound and a half for every quart of soup. Cut them in slices about a quarter of an inch thick. Melt four ounces of butter in a clean stewpan, and put in the turnips before it begins to boil; stew them gently for three quarters of an hour, taking care that they shall not brown. Then have the proper quantity of soup ready boiling, pour it to them, and let them simmer in it for three quarters of an hour. Pulp the whole through a