310 [CHAP. XV. MODERN COOKERY. a couple of minutes, and serve them directly heaped high in a very hot dish : there will he no sauce except that which adheres to the peas if they he properly managed. We have found mar- row fats excellent, dressed by this receipt. Fresh and good butter should be used with them always. Peas, 1 quart; butter, 2 ozs.: 20 minutes. Water to cover the peas ; little salt: 40 minutes. Sugar, small lump 5 butter, l oz.; flour, 1 teaspoonful: 2 minutes. GREEN PEAS WITH CREAM. (ENTREMETS.) Boil a quart of young peas perfectly tender in salt and water, and drain them as dry as possible. Dissolve an ounce and a half of butter in a clean stewpan, stir smoothly to it when it boils a dessertspoonful of flour, and shake these over the fire for three or four minutes, but without allowing them to take the slightest colour; pour gradually to them a cup of rich cream, add a small lump of sugar pounded, let the sauce boil, then put in the peas and toss them gently in it until they are very hot: dish, and serve them quickly. Peas, 1 quart: 18 to 25 minutes. Butter, 1£ oz.; flour, 1 dessertspoonful: 3 to 5 minutes. Sugar, 1 saltspoonful; cream, 1 cupful. TO BOIL FRENCH BEANS. When the beans are very small and young, merely take off the ends and stalks, and drop them into plenty of spring water as they are done ; when all are ready wash and drain them well, throw them into a large saucepan of fast-boiling water, salted as usual (see page 300), and when they are quite tender, which will be in from twelve to eighteen minutes, pour them into a cullender, shake the water from them, dish, and send them quickly to table with good melted butter in a tureen. When from half to two parts grown, cut the beans obliquely into a lozenge form, or, when a less modern fashion is preferred, split them lengthwise into delicate strips, and then cut them once across: the strings should be drawn off* with the tops and stalks. USTo mode of dressing it can render this vegetable good when it is old, but if the sides be pared off*, the beans cut thin, and boiled tend, r with rather more than the ordinary proportion of soda, they will be of excellent colour, and tolerably eatable. FRENCH BEANS A EA FRANQAISE. (ENTREMETS.) Boil, and drain them thoroughly; then put them into a clean stewpan, or well-tinned iron saucepan, and shake them over the