CIIAP. XX.] SWEET DISHES. 451 jelly, may be used for an occasional stripe, where great variety is desired. The different kinds of blamange should be poured into the mould in half-inch depths, when so cool as to be only just liquid, and one colour must be perfectly cold before another is added, or they will run together, and spoil the appearance of the dish. When ice is not procurable, the moulds in warm weather may be set into water, mixed with plenty of salt and saltpetre: the insides should be rubbed with a drop of very pure salad oil, instead of being laid into fresh water, as usual. STRENGTHENING BLAMANGE. (EXCELLENT.) Dissolve in a pint of new milk, half an ounce of isinglass, strain it through a muslin, or a fine silk sieve, put it again on the fire with the rind of half a small lemon pared very thin, and two ounces of sugar, broken small; let it simmer gently until well flavoured, then take out the lemon-peel, and stir the milk to the beaten yolks of three fresh eggs ; pour the mixture back into the saucepan, and hold it over the fire, keeping it stirred until it begins to thicken; put it into a deep basin, and keep it moved with a whisk or spoon, until it is nearly cold, then pour it into moulds which have been laid in water, and set it in a cool place till firm. This is both a wholesome and an agreeable prepara- tion, which we can particularly recommend for invalids, as well as for the table generally. New milk, 1 pint; isinglass, h oz.; lemon rind, \ of 1: 10 to 15 minutes. Sugar, 2 ozs.; yolks ofieggs, 3. LEMON SPONGE, OR MOULDED LEMON CREAM. Infuse in half a pint of cream the very thin rind of one large lemon, or of one and a half of smaller size; or, instead of this, rasp the fruit with the sugar which is to be used for the pre- paration. Add three quarters of an ounce of fine isinglass, and when this is dissolved throw in seven ounces of sugar in small lumps. Do not boil the mixture, to reduce it, but let it be kept near the point of simmering, until the sugar and isinglass are entirely dissolved, and a full flavour of the lemon-rind has been obtained; then stir in another half pint of cream, and strain the mixture immediately into a deep bowl or pan. When it is quite cold, add to it very gradually the strained juice of one lemon and a half, whisking the preparation well all the time; and when it begins to set, which may be known by its be- coming very thick, whisk it lightly to a sponge, pour it into an oiled mould, and, to prevent its breaking when it is dished,