CHAP. IV.] SAUCES. 101 COMMON EGG SAUCE. Boil a couple of eggs hard, and when they are quite cold cut the whites and yolks separately ; mix them well, put them into a very hot tureen, and pour boiling to them a quarter-pint of melted butter : stir, and serve the sauce immediately. Whole eggs, 2 ; melted butter, pint. EGG SAUCE FOR CALF’S HEAD. This is a provincial sauce, served sometimes with fish, and with calf’s head also. Thicken to the proper consistency with flour and butter some good pale veal gravy, throw into it when it boils from one to two large teaspoonsful of minced parsley, add a slight squeeze of lemon-juice, a little cayenne, and then the eggs. Veal gravy, \ pint; flour, 1| oz.; butter, 2 ozs.; minced parsley, 1 dessertspoonful; lemon-juice, 1 teaspoonful; little cayemie; eggs, 3 to 4. ENGLISH WHITE SAUCE. Boil softly in half a pint of well-flavoured pale veal gravy a few very thin strips of fresh lemon-rind, for just sufficient time to give their flavour to it; stir in a thickening of arrow-root, or of flour and butter; add salt if needed, and mix with the gravy a quarter-pint of boiling cream. Good pale veal gravy, \ pint; third of rind of 1 lemon: 15 to 20 minutes. Freshly pounded mace, third of saltspoonful; butter, 1 to 2 ozs.; flour, 1 teaspoonful (or arrow-root an equal quantity) ; cream, } pint. Obs.—For the best kind of white sauce, see bechamel. VERY COMMON WHITE SAUCE. The neck and the feet of a fowl, nicely cleaned, and stewed down in half a pint of water, until it is reduced to less than a quarter-pint, with a thin strip or two of lemon-rind, a small blade of mace, a small branch or two of parsley, a little salt, and half a dozen corns of pepper, then strained, thickened, and flavoured by the preceding receipt, and mixed with something more than half the quantity of cream, will answer for this sauce extremely well; and if it be added, when made, to the liver of the chicken, previously boiled for six minutes in the gravy, then bruised to a smooth paste, and passed through a sieve, it will become an excellent liver sauce. A little strained lemon-juice