/ CHAP. II.] FISH. 63 Obs.—The dish in which they are baked, should he buttered before they are laid in. FRIED MACKEREL. (Common French Receipt.') After the fish have been emptied and washed extremely clean, cut off the heads and tails, split the bodies quite open, and take out the backbones ;* wipe the mackerel very dry, dust fine salt, and pepper (or cayenne), over them, flour them well, fry them a fine brown in boiling lard, drain them thoroughly, and serve them with the following sauce :—Dissolve in a small saucepan an ounce and a half of butter smoothly mixed with a teaspoon- ful of flour, some salt, pepper, and cayenne, shake these over a gentle fire until they are lightly coloured, then add by slow degrees nearly half a pint of good broth, or gravy, and the juice of one large lemon: boil the sauce for a couple of minutes, and serve it very hot. Or, instead of this, add a large teaspoonful of strong made-mustard, and a dessertspoonful of Chili vinegar, to some thick melted butter, and serve it with the fish. A spoonful of Harvey’s sauce, or of mushroom catsup, can be mixed with this last, at pleasure. FILLETS OF MACKEREL. (Fried or Broiled.) Take off the flesh quite whole on either side, from three fine mackerel, which have been opened and properly cleaned; let it be entirely free from bone, dry it well in a cloth, then divide each part in two, and dip them into the beaten yolks of a couple of eggs, seasoned with salt and white pepper or cayenne; cover them equally with fine dry crumbs of bread, and fry them like soles; or dip them into clarified butter, and then again into the crumbs, and broil them over a very clear fire of a fine brown. Dish them in a circle one over the other, and send them to table with the Maitre d’Hotel sauce of Chapter IV., or with the one which follows it. The French pour the sauce into the centre of the dish; but for broiled fillets this is not so well, we think, as serving it in a tureen. The roes of the fish, after being well washed and soaked, may be dressed with them, or they may be made into patties. Minced parsley can be mixed with the bread- crumbs when it is liked. BOILED FILLETS OF MACKEREL. After having taken off and divided the flesh of the fish, as * We recommend in preference that the flesh of the fish should be taken off the bones as in the following receipt.