572 APPENDIX. then add it to, and pound it with, the shrimp*, and when they are perfectly blended mix well with them the unbeaten yolks of two eggs, and the whisked white of one. Set the mixture aside in a cool place, for a short time to become firm; then dust a little flour upon the fingers and mould the croquettes smoothly into small balls, or olive-shapes ; roll them gently in egg, and in the finest bread-crumbs, and fry them from five to seven minutes, or give them first two minutes boil, drain them on a sieve, and when they are again quite cold, egg, crumb, and fry them: they are, we think, rather firmer with the previous poaching. Shelled shrimps, 4 ozs.; fresh butter, 1| oz. (2 ozs. if the paste will not be too moist with it); mace, nutmeg, and ca- yenne mixed, 1 large saltspoonful; little salt; yolks 2 eggs, white of 1: fried 5 to 7 minutes, or poached 2 minutes, fried 4 to 5. Obs.—These proportions are only sufficient for a very small dish of the croquettes, which are very delicate. TRUrFLEI) OMLET. (ENTREMETS.) Whisk very lightly half a dozen fresh eggs, throw in a sea- soning of cayenne, in very fine powder, and a large saltspoon- ful of salt; dissolve a couple of ounces of good butter in a frying-pan, and when it begins to boil, throw into th$ eggs a couple of large bottled truffles * minced very small, then proceed as for a common omlet (see page 410). If fresh truffles be used, they must be stewed tender in a little butter after they are minced before they are stirred to the eggs. A POIVRADE SAUCE. Flavour some rich brown gravy highly with ham and escha- lots, by the receipt for Espagnole (page 88), and add to it, before it is dished, a high seasoning of pepper, and half a wine- glassful of vinegar. AN ENGLISH POIVRADE SAUCE. Mince a couple of ounces of mild onions, and take as much * The young housekeeper must 'be warned that the bottled truffles when once opened must be used immediately ; or well drained from the liquid and thrown into clarified butter, stewed in it for a minute or two, put into clean jars, and perfectly covered with the butter, which should be poured on them free from any liquid they may have yielded. They will also keep any length of time if minced and potted in the butter. As they are expensive, so far as regards their first cost, though a small quantity will impart a high degree of savour, all pre- caution should be taken against their being spoiled or wasted.