MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. XXIII. 514 TO WHISK EGGS FOR LIGHT RICH CAKES. Break them one by one, and separate the yolks from the whites : this is done easily by pouring the yolk from one half of the shell to the other, and letting the white drop from it into a basin beneath. With a small three-pronged fork take out the specks from each egg as it is broken, that none may accidentally escape notice. Whisk the yolks until they appear light, and the whites until they are a quite solid froth ; while any liquid remains at the bottom of the bowl they are not sufficiently beaten : when a portion of them, taken up with the whisk, and dropped from it, remains standing in points, they are in the proper state for use, and should be mixed into the cake directly. ORANGE-FLOWER MACAROONS. (DELICIOUS.) Have ready two pounds of very dry white sifted sugar. Weigh two ounces of the petals of freshly-gathered orange- blossoms after they have been picked from the stems ; and cut them very small with a pair of scissors into the sugar, as they will become discoloured if not mixed with it quickly after they are cut. When all are done, add the whites of seven eggs, and whisk the whole well together until it looks like snow; then drop the mixture upon paper without delay, and send the cakes to a very cool oven. Bounded sugar, 2 lbs.; orange-blossoms, 2 ozs.; whites of <gs, 7 : 20 minutes, or more. Ohs.—It is almost impossible to state with accuracy the pre- cise time required for these cakes, so much depends on the oven: they should be very delicately coloured, and yet dried through. ALMOND MACAROONS. Blanch a pound of fresh Jordan almonds, wipe them dry, and set them into a very cool oven to render them perfectly so; pound them to an exceedingly smooth paste, with a little white of egg; then whisk to a firm solid froth the whites of seven eggs, or of eight, should they be small; mix with them a pound and a half of the finest sugar; add these by degrees to the almonds, whisk the whole up well together, and drop the mix- ture upon wafer-paper, which may be procured at the confec- tioner’s : bake the cakes in a moderate oven a very pale brown. It is an improvement to their flavour to substitute an ounce of bitter almonds for one of the sweet. . They, are some- times made with an equal weight of each; and another variety