CHAP. XIX.] SOUFFLES, OMLETS, &G. 413 and a half, and rub it on the fruit to extract the essence, or should the citron not be sufficiently fresh to yield it by this means, pare it off in the thinnest possible strips and infuse it, by the side of the fire, in the cream of which the souffle is to be made. Should the first method be pursued, crush the sugar to powder, and dry it a little before it is added to the other ingredients. Blend very smoothly two ounces of potato-flour with a quarter of a pint of milk, and pour boiling to them a pint of good cream; stir the mixture in a large basin or bowl until it thickens, then throw in a grain of salt, two ounces of fresh butter just dissolved in a small saucepan, and the sugar which has been rubbed on the citron; or should the rind have been pared the same weight, some of which is merely pounded. Add next, by degrees, the thoroughly whisked yolks of six fresh eggs, or of seven, should they be very small. Beat the whites lightly and quickly, until they are sufficiently firm to remain standing in points when dropped from the whisk; mix them with the other ingredients, at the mouth of the oven, but without beating them; fill the souffle-pan less than half full; set it instantly into the oven, which should be gentle, but not exceedingly slack, close the door immediately, and do not open it for fifteen or twenty minutes: in from thirty to forty the souffle will be ready for table unless the oven should be very slow: a fierce degree of heat will have a most unfavourable effect upon it. Bind of half citron (that of a Seville orange may be sub- stituted on occasions) ; sugar, 2± ozs.; cream, 1 pint; potato- flour, 2 ozs.; milk, i pint; butter, 2 ozs.; yolks and whites of 6 large or of 7 small eggs : 30 to 40 minutes, or more in very slow oven. A FONDU. Mix to a smooth batter, with a quarter of a pint of new milk, two ounces of potato-flour, arrow-root, or tons les mois ; pour boiling to them three quarters of a pint more of milk, or of cream in preference, stir them well together, and then throw in two ounces of butter cut small. When this is melted, and well-beaten into the mixture, add the well-whisked yolks of four large or of five small eggs, half a teaspoonful of salt, something less of cayenne, and three ounces of lightly- grated cheese, Parmesan or English, or equal parts of both. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a quite firm and solid froth; then proceed, as for a souffle, to mix and bake the fondu. 20 minutes.