528 MODERN COOKERY. [[CHAP. XXIII. whisked eggs; add some grated nutmeg, or fresh lemon-rind, and eight ounces of currants, cleaned and dried; heat the whole well and lightly together, then strew in a very small teaspoon- ful of good carbonate of soda in the finest powder, and again, heat the cake well and lightly for three or four minutes; put it into a buttered mould, and bake it from an hour to an hour and a quarter; or divide it in two, when three quarters of an hour will be sufficient for each part. Flour, 1 lb.; butter, \ lb.; sugar, f lb.; boiling milk, full i pint; eggs, 3 ; currants, \ lb.; good carbonate of soda, 1 very small teaspoonful : 1 to If hour. Or: divided in two, \ to f hour. Obs.—This, if carefully made, resembles a pound cake, but is much less expensive, and far more wholesome, while it has the advantage of being very expeditiously prepared. Great care, however, must be taken to avoid mixing with it too large a proportion, or a coarse quality of soda; as either will impart to it a far from agreeable flavour. A GOOD LIGHT BUN. Break quite small three ounces of good butter into a pound and a quarter of flour, stir into the middle of these a spoonful and a quarter of solid, well-purified yeast, mixed with some- thing more than a quarter-pint of warm milk, and leave it to rise before, but not close to the fire, for an hour, or longer, should it not then appear extremely light. Add to three eggs, properly whisked, a few spoonsful of warm milk, strain and beat them to the bun; next, mix with it six ounces of pale brown sugar, six of well-cleaned currants, and the grated rind of a small lemon, or Some nutmeg, if preferred ; or, in lieu of either, slice into it an ounce and a half of candied orange-rind. Let it again rise for an hour, then beat it up lightly with a wooden spoon, put it into a buttered pan, and bake it in a brisk oven for nearly or quite an hour. An additional ounce of butter will improve it. Flour, If lb.; yeast, If tablespoonful: 1 hour, or more. Eggs, 3 ; milk, less than | pint; sugar, 6 ozs.; currants, 6 ozs.; lemon- grate, nutmeg, or candied orange-rind, at pleasure: 1 hour. Baked nearly or quite an hour; brisk oven. COCOA-NUT BISCUIT. (Excellent.') With a pound of flour mix three ounces of a sound fresh cocoa-nut, rasped on a fine grater; make a leaven as for the