563 BREAD. CHAP. XXVIII.] let the whole be lightly kneaded into a lithe dough : the bread thus made will be excellent when new, and for a day or so after it is baked, but it will become dry sooner than the other. Flour, 1 gallon; salt, 1 teaspoonful; skimmed milk, pints : to rise from 1 to 1^ hour. Additional milk, 1 to 2 pints: to rise 1 hour. 3 loaves, baked 1£ hour. Obs. 1.—A few spoonsful of cream will wonderfully improve either of the above receipts, and sweet butter-milk, substituted for the other, will give to the bread the shortness of a cake : we would particularly recommend it for trial when it can be procured. Obs. 2.—For an invalid, especially when the digestion is im- paired, butter should be altogether omitted from the bread; and eggs, which are often added to the finer sorts of rolls, are better avoided also. Obs. 3.—We must repeat our caution against milk or water of a scalding heat being mixed ever with the yeast: it should be warm, rather more so than when taken from the cow, but not much. BROWN BREAD. Make this by either of the foregoing receipts, with meal, as it is called (that is to say, the wheat just as it is ground, either separated from the coarse bran or not, according to the quality ; of the bread required), instead of flour. It ferments easily, and does not therefore require a very full proportion of yeast; and it absorbs more moisture than the flour; it also retains it longer, if properly baked. The loaves should be well soaked in the oven, but not over dried. Obs.—The best bread we ever tasted was made in great part j with rye-flour : this was in. a provincial town in France. POTATO BREAD. One pound of good mealy potatoes, steamed or boiled very dry, in the ordinary way, or prepared by Captain Kater’s receipt (see Chapter XV.), and rubbed quite hot, through a coarse sieve, into a couple of pounds of flour, with which they should be well mixed, will produce excellent bread, which will remain moist much longer than wheaten bread made as usual. The yeast should be added immediately after the potatoes. An ounce or two of butter, an egg and some new milk, will convert this bread into very superior rolls.