441 CHAP, XX.] SWEET DISHES, OR ENTREMETS. 2 ozs. candied orange-rind). For sauce, sweetened juice of strawberries, raspberries, or plums, or pine-apple syrup. Obs.—The currants should be steamed in an earthen cul- lender, placed over a saucepan of boiling water, and covered with the lid. It will be a great improvement to place the pudding over ice for an hour before it is served. NESSELRODE CREAM. Shell and blanch (see page 333*) twenty-four fine Spanish chestnuts, and put them with three quarters of a pint of water into a small and delicately clean saucepan. When they have simmered from six to eight minutes, add to them two ounces of fine sugar, and let them stew very gently until they are perfectly tender; then drain them from the water, pound them, while still warm, to a smooth paste, and press them through the back of a fine sieve. While this is being done, dissolve half an ounce of isinglass in two or three spoonsful of water, and put to it as much cream as will, with the small quantity of water used, make half a pint, two ounces of sugar, about the third* of a pod of vanilla, cut small, and well bruised, and a strip or two of fresh lemon-rind, pared extremely thin. Give these a minute’s boil, and then keep them quite hot by the side of the fire, until a strong flavour of the vanilla is obtained. Now, mix gradually with the chestnuts half a pint of rich, unboiled cream, strain the other half pint through a fine muslin, and work the whole well together until it becomes very thick; then stir to it a couple of ounces of dried cherries, cut into quarters, and two of candied citron, divided into very small dice. Press the mixture into a mould which has been rubbed with a particle of the purest salad-oil, and in a few hours it will be ready for table. The cream should be suffi- ciently stiff, when the fruit is added, to prevent its sinking to the bottom, and both kinds should be dry when they are used. Chestnuts, large, 24; water, f pint; sugar, 2 ozs.; isinglass, \ oz.; water, 3 to 4 tablespoonsful; cream, nearly \ pint; vanilla, £ of pod; lemon-rind, i of 1 large : infuse 20 minutes or more. Unboiled cream, \ pint; dried cherries, 2 ozs.; candied citron, 2 ozs. Ohs.—When vanilla cannot easily be obtained, a little noyeau may be substituted for it, but a full weight of isinglass must then be used. Both this receipt and the following one are entirely new, and our directions for them must be followed with exactness, should the reader wish to ensure their success. * Receipt, Stewed Chestnuts.