CHAP. III.] 89 GRAVIES. of a root of parsley, if it be at hand, and keep the whole stirred or shaken over a moderate fire for twenty minutes, then add by degrees one pint of very strong veal stock or gravy, and stew the whole gently from thirty to forty minutes ; strain it, skim off the fat, and it will be ready to serve. Butter, 2 ozs.; eschalots, 4 to 6 ; lean of undressed ham, 4 ozs.; carrots, 3 ozs.; bay leaf, 1 ; little thyme and parsley, in branches; cloves, 3 ; mace, 1 blade; peppercorns, 12 ; little parsley root: fried gently, 20 minutes. Strong veal stock, or gravy, 1 pint: stewed very softly, 30 to 40 minutes. ESPAGNOEE, WITH WINE. Take the same proportion of ingredients as for the preceding Espagnole, with the addition, if they should be at hand, of a dozen small mushrooms, prepared as for stewing; when these have fried gently in the stewpan until it appears of a reddish colour all round, stir in a tablespoonful of Hour, and wdien it is lightly browned, add in small portions, letting each one boil up before the next is poured in, and shaking the pan well round, three quarters of a pint of hot and good veal gravy, and nearly half a pint of Madeira or sherry. When the sauce has boiled gently for half an hour, add to it a small quantity of cayenne, and some salt, if this last be needed; then strain it, skim off the fat entirely, should any appear upon the surface, and serve it very hot. A smaller proportion of wine, added a few minutes before the sauce is ready for table, would perhaps better suit with English taste, as with longer boiling, its flavour passes off almost entirely. Either of these Espagnoles, poured over the well bruised remains of pheasants, partridges, or moor fowl, and, boiled with them for an hour, will become a most admirable game gravy, and would generally be considered a superlative addition to other roast biids of their kind, as well as to the hash or salmi, for which see Chapter XIII. Ingredients as in preceding receipt, with mushrooms 12 to 18; Madeira, or good sherry, I to -1 pint. JUS DES ROGNONS ; OR, KIDNEY GRAVY. Strip the skin and take the fat from three fresh mutton kid- neys, slice and flour them ; melt two ounces of butter in a deep saucepan, and put in the kidneys, with an onion cut small, and a teaspoonful of fine herbs stripped from the stalks. Keep these well shaken over a clear fire until nearly all the moisture is dried up ; then pour in a pint of boiling water, add half a tea- spoonful of salt, and a little cayenne or common pepper, and let