263 POULTRY. CHAP. XII.] mony, No. 17 or 18 of the same Chapter, should he used in preference. The fowl must be lied securely to the spit, not put upon it. Boned chickens are excellent when entirely filled with well-made mushroom-forcemeat, or very delicate and nicely seasoned sausage-meat; and either roasted or stewed. Brown gravy, them. or mushroom sauce should then he sent to table with Fowls trussed for boiling. BOILED FOWLS. White - legged poultry should always be selected for boiling, as they are of better colour when dressed than any others. Truss them firmly and neatly, ■with the legs drawn into the bodies, and the wings twisted over the backs; let them be well covered with water, which should be hot, but not boiling when they are put in. A full-sized fowl will re- quire about three quarters of an hour from the time of its begin- ning to simmer; but y oung chickens not more than from twenty to twenty-five minutes : they should be very gently boiled, and the scum should be removed with great care as it gathers on the surface of the water. Either of the following sauces may be sent to table with them : parsley and butter, bechamel, English white sauce, oyster, celery, or white-mushroom sauce. The fowls are often dished with small tufts of delicately boiled cauliflower placed round them; or with young vegetable marrow, scarcely larger than an egg, merely pared and halved after it is dressed i white sauce must be served with both of these. The livers and gizzards are not, at the present day, usually served in the wings of boiled fowls. When they are not so, the livers may be simmered for four or five minutes, then pressed to a smooth paste with a wooden spoon, and mixed very gradually with the sauce, which should not boil after they are added. Full-sized fowl, f hour : young chickens, 20 to 25 minutes. Obs.—Half a gallon of cold added to an equal quantity of boiling water, will bring it to the proper degree of heat for putting in the fowls. For richer modes of boiling poultry, see Blanc and Poelee, Chapter VII. TO BROIL A CHICKEN OR FOWL. Either of these, when merely split and broiled, is very dry