.CHAP. XX PRESERVES. 4 G9 GREEN GOOSEBERRY JELLY. Wash some freshly gathered gooseberries very clean, after having taken off the tops and stalks, then to each pound, pour three quarters of a pint of spring water, and simmer them until they are well broken; turn the whole into a jelly-bag | or cloth, and let all the juice drain through; weigh, and boil l it rapidly for fifteen minutes. Draw it from the fire, and stir in it until entirely dissolved, an equal weight of good sugar reduced to powder; boil the jelly from fifteen to twenty minutes longer, or until it jellies strongly on the spoon or skimmer ; clear it perfectly from scum, and pour it into small jars, moulds, or glasses. It ought to be very pale and trans- parent. Preserved fruits just dipped into hot water to take off the syrup, then well drained and dried, may be arranged with good effect in the centre of the gooseberry jelly if the glasses be rather less than half filled before they are laid in, and the jelly just set: the remainder must be kept liquid to fill them up. The sugar may be added to the juice at first, and the preserve boiled from twenty-five to thirty-five minutes, but the colour will not then be go good. When the fruit abounds, the juice may be drawn from it with very little water, as directed for apples, page 491, when it will require much less boiling. Gooseberries, 6 lbs.; water, 4 pints: 20 to 30 minutes. Juice boiled quickly, 15 minutes; to each pound, 1 lb. sugar: 15 to 20 minutes. GREEN GOOSEBERRY JAM. (Firm and of good colour.) Cut the stalks and tops from the fruit, weigh and bruise it slightly, boil it for six or seven minutes, keeping it well turned during the time, then to every three pounds of gooseberries add two and a half of sugar beaten to powder, and boil the preserve quickly for three quarters of an hour. It must be constantly stirred, and carefully cleared from scum. Green gooseberries, 6 lbs.: 6 to 7 minutes. Sugar, 5 lbs. ; I hour. TO DRY GREEN GOOSEBERRIES. Take the finest green gooseberries, fully grown, and freshly gathered; cut, off the buds, split them across the tops half way down, and with the small end of a tea or of an egg-spoon, scoop out the seeds. Boil together for fifteen minutes a pound