316 Qchap. xv. MODERN COOKERY. a salad-bowl with either a French or an English dressing, and toss the whole gently before it is served. TO BOIL CAULIFLOWERS. Trim off the outside leaves, and cut the stems quite close to the cauliflowers; let them lie for an hour in plenty of cold water, with a handful of salt in it, to draw out any insects that may be amongst them; then wash them very thoroughly, and examine them well, to be assured that no snail is left in any part of them, throw them into a large pan of boiling water, salted as for asparagus, and quite cleared from scum; for this, if not removed, will adhere to the cauliflowers and spoil their appearance. When the stalks are tender lift them out, dish them neatly, and send good melted butter to table with them. 20 to 30 minutes. CAULIFLOWERS. (French Receipt.') Cut the cauliflowers into small handsome tufts, and boil them until three parts done, drain them well, toss them for a moment in some thick melted butter or white sauce, and set them by to cool. When they are quite cold, dip them sepa- rately into the batter of page 154, fry them a light brown, arrange them neatly in a dish, and serve them very hot. CAULIFLOWERS WITH PARMESAN CHEESE. Take all the green leaves from two or three fine white cauli- flowers, and cut the stalks off very closely, so that they will stand upright in the dish in which they are served; boil them tolerably tender, but not sufficiently so to hazard their break- ing, drain them well, and dish them, so as to give the whole the appearance of one cauliflower, pour a little good white sauce equally over the tops, and on this strew grated Parmesan cheese, drop over it a little clarified butter, add another layer of cheese, and cover the whole with the finest bread-crumbs; moisten these with more clarified butter, and brown them with a salamander, or set the dish into the oven, to give them colour; pour white sauce round the cauliflowers, and send them very hot to table. CAULIFLOWERS A LA FRANQAISE. Strip away all the green leaves, and divide each cauliflower into three or four parts, trimming the stalks quite close; put them, with the heads downwards, into a stewpan which will just hold them, half filled with boiling water, into which an ounce