SWEET DISHES. 449 CHAP. XX.] tasted; and the receipt, we may venture to say, will he alto- gether new to the reader. Dissolve in a pint of prepared juice of'quinces (see page 427), an ounce of the best isinglass; next, add ten ounces of sugar, roughly pounded, and stir these to- gether gently over a clear fire, from twenty to thirty minutes, or until the juice jellies in falling from the spoon. Eemoye the scum carefully, and pour the boiling jelly gradually to JMf* a pint of thick cream, stirring them briskly together as (hey are mixed: they must be stirred until very nearly cold, ahd then poured into a mould which has been rubbed in every part With the smallest possible quantity of very pure salad oil, or, if more convenient, into one that has been dipped into cold water. Juice of quinces, 1 pint; isinglass, 1 oz.: 5 to 10 minutes. Sugar, 10 ozs.: 20 to 30 minutes. Cream, \ pint. QUINCE BEAMANGE, WITH ALMOND CREAM. When cream is not procurable, which will sometimes happen in the depth of winter, almonds, if plentifully used, will afford a very good substitute, though the finer blamange is made from the foregoing receipt. On four ounces of almonds, blanched and beaten to the smoothest paste, and moistened in the pound- ing with a few drops of water, to prevent their oiling, pour a pint of boiling quince-juice ; stir them together, and turn them into a strong cloth, of which let the ends be held and twisted different ways by two persons, to express the cream from the almonds; put the juice again on the fire, with half a pound of sugar, and when it boils, throw in nearly an ounce of fine isinglass; simmer the whole for five minutes, take off the scum, stir the blamange until it is nearly cold, then mould it for table. Increase the quantity both of this and of the preceding bla- mange, when a large dish of either is required. Quince-juice, 1 pint; Jordan almonds, 4 ozs.; sugar, \ lb.; isinglass, nearly 1 oz.: 5 minutes. APRICOT BLAMANGE, OR CREME PARISIENNE. Dissolve gently an ounce of fine isinglass in a pint of new milk or of thin cream, and strain it through a folded muslin; put it into a clean saucepan, with three ounces of sugar, broken into small lumps, and when it boils, stir to it half a pint of rich cream; add it, at first by spoonsful only, to eight ounces of the finest apricot jam, mix them very smoothly, and stir the whole until it is nearly cold that the jam may not sink to the bottom of the mould: a tablespoonful of lemon-juice will improve the flavour. G G