478 MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. XXI. Baspberries, 4 lbs.; currant-juice, 1 \ lb.: 20 minutes. Sugar, 3 lbs.: 10 minutes. RASPBERRY JELLY FOR FLAVOURING CREAMS. Take the stalks from some quite ripe, and freshly-gathered raspberries, stir them over the fire until they render their juice freely, then strain and weigh it; or press it from them through a cloth, and then strain it clear; in either case boil it for five minutes after it is weighed, and for each pound stir in a pound and a quarter of good sugar, reduced quite to powder, sifted, and made very hot; boil the preserve quickly for five minutes longer, and skim it clean. The jelly thus made will sufficiently sweeten the creams without any additional sugar. Juice of raspberries, 4 lbs.: 5 minutes. Sugar, made hot, 5 lbs.: 5 minutes. ANOTHER RASPBERRY JELLY. ( Very good.) Bruise the fruit a little, and draw the juice from it by four or five minutes gentle simmering; strain and weigh it; boil it quickly for twenty minutes, draw it from the fire, add three quarters of a pound of good sugar for each pound of juice, and when this is dissolved place the pan again on the fire, and boil the preserve fast from twelve to fifteen minutes longer; skim it thoroughly, and keep it well stirred. This jelly is infinitely improved in colour and in firmness, though not perhaps in flavour, by mixing with the raspberry juice one fourth, or even as much as a third, of the juice of ripe white currants : the pre- serve will then require rather less boiling. When it jellies in falling from the spoon or skimmer, it is done, Nothing of tin or iron should be used in making it, as these metals will convert its fine red colour into a' dull purple. Fruit, simmered 5 to 6 minutes. Juice of raspberries, 4 lbs.: 20 minutes. Sugar, 3 lbs.: 12 to 15 minutes. Or: juice of raspberries, 4 lbs.; juice of white currants, 2 lbs.: 20 minutes. Sugar, 4\ lbs.: 10 minutes, or less. GREEN CURRANT JAM. For each pound of currants take fourteen ounces of good sugar, in fine powder; bruise part of the fruit with a small portion of the sugar, and put it first into the preserving-pan, that the juice may flow from it sufficiently to prevent the remainder from being burned: it should be placed over a very gentle fire, and stirred constantly until it has yielded moisture