CHAP. II.] FISH. 67 with melted butter mixed with a teaspoonful or more of mustard, some salt, and a little vinegar or lemon-juice. To broil from 20 to 25 minutes; to fry about 10 minutes. TO BOIL PLAICE OB FLOUNDERS. Plaice in season from May to January; flounders in September, October, and November. After having emptied and well cleaned the fish, make an inci- sion in the back as directed for turbot; lay them into cold spring water; add salt, and saltpetre in the same proportion as for cod fish, and let them just simmer for four or five minutes after the water first begins to boil, or longer, should their size require it, but guard against their being broken. Serve them with plain melted butter. 4 to 5 minutes; longer if needful. TO FRY PLAICE OR FLOUNDERS. Sprinkle them with salt, and let them lie for two or three hours before they are dressed. Wash and clean them tho- roughly, wipe them very dry, Hour them well, and wipe them again with a clean cloth; dip them into egg, and fine bread- crumbs, and fry them in plenty of lard. If the fish be large, raise the flesh in handsome fillets from the bones, and finish them as directed for fillets of soles. Obs.—Plaice is said to be rendered less watery by beating it gently with a paste-roller before it is cooked. It is very sweet and pleasant in flavour while it is in the best season, which is from the end of May to about September. TO ROAST, BAKE, OR BROIL RED MULLET. In best season through the summer: may be had all the year. First wash, and then dry the fish thoroughly in a cloth, but neither scale nor open it; wrap it closely in a sheet of thickly buttered paper, tie this securely at the ends, and over the mullet with packthread, and roast it in a Dutch oven, or broil it over a clear and gentle fire, or bake it in a moderate oven : from twenty to thirty minutes will be sufficient generally to dress it in either way, if it be only of moderate size. For sauce, put into a little good melted butter the liquor which has flowed from fish, a small dessertspoonful of essence of anchovies, some cayenne, a glass of port wine, or claret, and a little lemon- juice. Remove the packthread, and send the mullet to table in