486 j^CIIAP. XXI. MODERN COOKERY. yielded their juice to the utmost. Pour this from them, strain it through a jelly bag, weigh, and then boil it rapidly for twenty-five minutes. Have ready, broken small, three pounds of sugar for four of the juice, stir them together until it is dis- solved, and then continue the boiling quickly for ten minutes longer, and be careful to remove all the scum. Pour the pre- serve into small moulds or pans, and turn it out when it is wanted for table: it will be very fine, both in colour and in flavour. Juice of plums, 4 lbs.: 25 minutes. Sugar, 3 lbs.: 10 mi- nutes. The cheese.—Skin and stone the plums from which the juice has been poured, and after having weighed, boil them an hour and a quarter over a brisk fire, and stir them constantly ; then to three pounds of fruit add one of sugar, beaten to powder; boil the preserve for another half hour, and press it into shallow pans or moulds. Plums, 3 lbs.: If hour. Sugar, 1 lb.: 30 minutes. APRICOT MARMALADE. This may be made either by the receipt for greengage, or Mogul plum marmalade; or the fruit may first be boiled quite tender, then rubbed through a sieve, and mixed with three quarters of a pound of sugar to the pound of apricots: from twenty to thirty minutes will boil it in this case. A richer pre- serve still is produced by taking off the skins, and dividing the plums in halves or quarters, and leaving them for some hours with their weight of fine sugar strewed over them before they are placed on the fire; they are then heated slowly, and gently simmered for about half an hour. TO DRY APRICOTS. (A quick and easy method.) Wipe gently, split, and stone some fine apricots, which are not over-ripe ; weigh, and arrange them evenly in a deep dish or bowl, and strew in fourteen ounces of sugar, in fine powder, to each pound of fruit; on the following day turn the whole carefully into a preserving-pan, let the apricots heat slowly, and simmer them very softly for six minutes, or for an instant longer, should they not in that time be quite tender. Let them remain in the syrup for a day or two, then drain and spread them singly on dishes to dry.