[[CHAP. I. MODERN COOKERY. 10 extremely well for this soup, and afford at the same time a highly economical dish of boiled meat, which will be found very tender, and very palatable also, if it be served with a sauce of some piquancy. From about ten pounds of the meat let the butcher cut evenly off five or six from the thick fleshy part, and again divide the knuckle, that the whole may lie compactly in the vessel in which it is to be stewed. Pour in three quarts of cold water, and when it has been brought slowly to boil, and been well skimmed, as directed for bouillon (page 6), throw in an ounce and a half of salt, half a large teaspoonful of pepper-corns, eight cloves, two blades of mace, a bunch of savoury herbs, a couple of small carrots, and the heart of a root of celery: to these add a mild onion or not, at choice. When the whole has stewed very softly for four hours, probe the larger bit of beef, and if quite tender, lift it out for table ; let the soup be simmered from two to three hours longer, and then strain it through a fine sieve, into a clean pan. When it is perfectly cold, clear off every particle of fat; heat a couple of quarts, stir in, when it boils, half an ounce of sugar, a small tablespoonful of good soy, and twice as much of Harvey’s sauce, or should this not be at hand, of clear and fine mushroom catsup. If carefully made, the soup will be perfectly trans- parent and of good colour and flavour. A thick slice of lean ham will improve it, and a pound or so of the neck of beef with an additional pint of water, will likewise enrich its quality. A small quantity of good broth may be made of the fragments of the whole boiled down with a few fresh vegetables. Brown caper, or hot horse-radish sauce, or sauce Robert, or sauce piquante, made with the liquor in which it is boiled, may be served with the portion of' the meat which is sent to table. VERMICELLI SOUP. ([Potage au Vermicelle.') Drop very lightly, and by degrees, six ounces of vermicelli, broken rather small, into three quarts of boiling bouillon, or clear gravy soup ; let it simmer for half an hour* over a gentle fire, and stir it often. This is the common French mode of making vermicelli soup, and we can recommend it as a particu- * larly good one for family use. In England it is customary to soak, or to blanch the vermicelli, then to drain it well, and to * When of very fine quality, the vermicelli will usually require less boiling than this. We have named to the reader, in another part of the volume, Mr. Cob- bett, 18, Pall Mall, as supplying all the Italian pastes extremely good.