[CHAP. IX, 210 MODERN COOKERY. cayenne, the third part of a nutmeg, grated, and a half-tea- spoonful of freshly pounded mace. When it is pressed into the dish, let it be somewhat higher in the centre than at the edge; and whether to be served hot or cold, lift it out as soon as it comes from the oven, and place it on a strainer that the fat may drain from it: it will keep many days if* the under side be dry. The bacon should be weighed after the rind, and any rust it may exhibit, have been trimmed from it: that cured by the re- ceipt of p. 244 (see Chapter XI.) is best for the purpose. This cake is excellent cold, better indeed than the preceding one; but slices of either if preferred hot, may be warmed through in a Dutch oven, or on the gridiron, or in a few spoonsful of gravy. The same ingredients made into small cakes, well floured, and slowly fried from twelve to fifteen minutes, then served with gravy made in the pan as for cutlets, will be found extremely good. Veal, \\ lb.; striped bacon, 8 ozs.; salt and mace, 1 tea- spoonful each ; rind of lemon, 1 ; third of 1 nutmeg; cayenne, 4 grains: baked 1 £ to 11 hour. FRICANDEAU OF VEAL. (ENTREE). French cooks always prefer for this dish, which is a common one in their own country, that part of the fillet to which the fat or udder is attached ;* but the flesh of the finer part of the neck, or loin, raised clear from the bones, may be made to an- swer the purpose nearly, or quite as well, and often much more conveniently, as the meat with us is not divided for sale as in France; and to purchase the entire fillet, for the sake of the fricandeau, would render it exceedingly expensive. Lay the veal flat upon a table, or dresser, with the skin uppermost, and endeavour, with one stroke of an exceedingly sharp knife, to clear this off, and to leave the surface of the meat extremely smooth ; next lard it thickly with small lardoons, as directed for a pheasant (page 166), and make one or two incisions in the underside with the point of a knife, that it may the better im- bibe the flavour of the seasonings. Take a stewpan, of sufficient size to hold the fricandeau, and the proper quantity of vegeta- bles compactly arranged, without much room being left round the meat. Put into it a couple of large carrots, cut in thick slices, two onions of moderate size, two or three roots of parsley, three bay leaves, two small blades of mace, a branch or two of lemon thyme, and a little cayenne, or a saltspoonful of white pep- Called by them the ncix.