APPENDIX, 581 mented with preserved fruit, tinted almonds, grains of white or pink sugar candy, or aught else that the fancy may direct. To make the small Venetian cakes, roll the paste directed for the large one at the commencement of this receipt, into balls, flatten them with the hand to about the third of an inch thick, brush them with beaten egg, and cover them plentifully with sugar-candy crushed about half the size of a pea: bake them in a slow oven. Almonds, 8 ozs.; flour, 1 lb.; butter, 8 ozs.; sugar, \ lb.; rind of 1 lemon; yolks of eggs, 3 to 4: preserve as needed.* 6C0TTISH SHORTBREAD. (Excellent.) With one pound of flour mix well a couple of ounces of sifted sugar, and one of candied orange-rind or citron, sliced small; make these into a paste with from eight to nine ounces of good butter, made sufficiently warm to be liquid; press the paste together with the hands, and mould it upon tins into large cakes nearly an inch thick, pinch the edges, and bake the shortbread in a moderate oven for twenty minutes, or longer, should it not be quite crisp, but do not allow it to become deeply coloured. Flour, 1 lb.; sugar, 2 ozs.; candied orange or citron, 1 oz.; butter, 8 to 9 ozs.: 20 minutes or more. EXCELLENT SHORT CRUST FOR SWEET PASTRY. Work very lightly half a pound of butter into a pound of flour, breaking it quite small; add a slight pinch of salt, two ounces of pounded sugar, and sufficient milk to make it into a perfectly smooth paste : bake it slowly, and keep it pale. It is an admirable crust, if well made and lightly handled: ten ounces of butter will render it very rich, but we find eight quite sufficient. APFEL KRAPFEN. (German Receipt.) Boil down three quarters of a pound of good apples with four ounces of pounded sugar, and a small glass of white wine, or the strained juice of a lemon; when they are stewed quite to a pulp, keep them stirred until they are thick and dry; then mix them gradually with four ounces of almonds, beaten to a paste, * An equal weight of almonds, sugar, flour, and butter may be used for this paste, which will then be found delicious, but rather "less easy to mould than the one we have given.