[[chap. XVIII. MODERN COOKERY. 406 Obs.—This pudding should be quite an inch thick when it is browned on both sides, but only half the depth when roasted in the Yorkshire mode. The cook must exercise her discretion a little in mixing the batter, as from the variation of weight in flour, and in the size of eggs, a little more or less of milk may- be required : the whole should be rather more liquid than for a boiled pudding. COMMON YORKSHIRE PUDDING. Half a pound of flour, three eggs (we would recommend a fourth), rather more than a pint of milk, and a teaspoonful of salt. NORMANDY PUDDING. (GOOD.) Boil, until very soft and dry, eight ounces of rice in a pint and a half, or rather more, of water,* stir to it two ounces of fresh butter, and three of sugar, and simmer it for a few minutes after they are added; then pour it out, and let it cool for use. Strip from the stalks as many red currants, or Kentish cherries, as will fill a tart-dish of moderate size, and for each pint of the fruit allow from three to four ounces of sugar. Line the bottom and sides of a deep dish with part of the rice; next, put in a thick layer of fruit and sugar ; then one of rice and one of fruit alternately until the dish is full. Sufficient of the rice should be reserved „to form a rather thick layer at the top: smooth this equally with a knife, and send the pudding to a moderate but not very slow oven, for half an hour, and more, should it be large. When two thirds baked, it may be glazed with yolk of egg, brushed over, and fine sugar sifted on it. Morelia cherries, with a little additional sugar, make an excellent pud- ding of this kind. DAMSON-AND-RICE PUDDING. With five ounces of whole rice boiled soft and dry, mix an ounce of butter, ten ounces of damson-jam, a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and five eggs. Beat the whole well together, and bake it about half an hour. Bice, 5 ozs.; damson-jam, 10 ozs.; butter, 1 oz.; eggs, 5: ^ hour. BARBERRY-AND-RICE PUDDING. Mix ten ounces of barberries stripped from the stalks, with * A quart of milk can be substituted for this; but with the fruit, water perhaps answers better.