CHAP. XX.] SWEET DISHES, OR ENTREMETS. 443 six eggs; and sweetened, flavoured and thickened by the receipt of page 452 ; lay the remainder of the soaked cakes upon it, and pile over the whole, to the depth of two or three inches, the whipped syllabub of page 446, previously well drained; then sweeten and flavour slightly with wine only, less than half a pint of thin cream (or of cream and milk mixed) ; wash and wipe the whisk, and whip it to the lightest possible froth: take it off with a skimmer and heap it getttly over the trifle. Macaroons and ratifias, \ lb.; wine and brandy mixed, £ pint; rich boiled custard, 1 pint; whipped syllabub (see page 446) ; light froth to cover the whole, short \ pint of cream and milk mixed; sugar, dessertspoonful; wine, \ glassful. SWISS CREAM, OR TRIELE. ( Very good.) Flavour pleasantly with lemon rind and cinnamon, a pint of rich cream, after having taken from it as much as will mix smoothly to a thin batter four teaspoonsful of the finest flour; sweeten it with six ounces of well-refined sugar, in lumps; place it over a clear fire in a delicately clean saucepan, and when it boils stir in the flour, and simmer it for four or five minutes, stirring it gently without ceasing; then pour it out, and when it is quite cold mix with it by degrees the strained juice of two moderate-sized and very fresh lemons. Take a quarter of a pound of macaroons, cover the bottom of a glass dish with a portion of them, pour in a part of the cream, lay the remainder of the macaroons upon it, add the rest of the cream, and ornament it with candied citron, sliced thin. It should be made the day before it is wanted for table. The requisite flavour may be given to this dish by infusing in the cream the very thin rind of a lemon, and part of a stick of cinnamon, slightly bruised, and then straining it before the flour is added; or, these and the sugar may be boiled together, with two or three spoonsful of water, to a strongly flavoured syrup, which, after having been passed through a muslin strainer, may be stirred into the cream. Some cooks boil the cinnamon and the grated rind of a lemon with all the other ingredients, but the cream has then to be pressed through a sieve after it is made, a process which it is always desirable to avoid. Rich cream, 1 pint; sugar, 6 ozs.; rind, 1(lemon; cinnamon, 1 drachm ; flour, 4 teaspoonsful; juice, 2 lemons; macaroons, 4 ozs.; candied citron, 1 to 2 ozs.