CHAP. XVII.] BOILED PUDDINGS. 379 mainder of the pudding carefully upon it, lay a buttered paper over the mould, then close it, or should there he no cover, tie a cloth securely round it, and boil the pudding a full hour. Serve it with German, or common sweet wine sauce. Jordan almonds, \ lb.; bitter ones, 5 or 6 ; yolks of 7 eggs, whites of 2; pounded sugar, 4 ozs.; bread-crumbs, 4 ozs.; lemon-rind, 1; butter, 4 ozs.; apricot-marmalade, 1 jarful: full hour. VERY GOOD RAISIN PUDDING. To three quarters of a pound of flour add four ounces of fine crumbs of bread, one pound of beef-suet, a pound and six ounces of raisins, weighed after they are stoned, a quarter-teaspoonful of salt, rather more of ginger, half a nutmeg, an ounce and a half of candied peel, and four large or five small eggs, beaten, strained, and mixed with a cupful of milk, or as much more as will make the whole of the consistency of a very thick batter. Pour the mixture into a well-floured cloth of close texture, which has previously been dipped into hot water wrung, and shaken out. Boil the pudding in plenty of water for four hours and a half. It may be served with very sweet wine, or punch sauce; but if made as we have directed, will be much lighter than if sugar be mixed with the other ingredients before it is boiled ; and we have found it generally preferred to a richer plum-pudding. Flour, | lb.; bread-crumbs, 4 ozs.; beef-suet, 1 lb.; stoned raisins, 1 lb. 6 ozs.; candied peel, 1£ oz.; \ nutmeg; eggs, 4 large, or 5 small; little salt and ginger: hours. A SUPERIOR RAISIN PUDDING. Grate very lightly, but quite fine, four ounces of the crumb of a stale loaf, and mix it with a quarter-pound of flour, twelve ounces of beef kidney-suet, minced small, a pound of stoned raisins, a little salt, half a small nutmeg, a saltspoonful of pounded ginger, half as much mace, four ounces of good sugar, two of candied citron or orange-rind, four eggs, and two or three spoonsful of milk or brandy. Stir, and beat these ingredients thoroughly together, pour them into a thick, well-floured cloth, and boil the pudding for four hours. Bread-crumbs and flour each, 4 ozs.; suet, 12 ozs.; stoned raisins, 1 lb.; salt, third of saltspoonful; i nutmeg; ginger, \ teaspoonful; half as much mace; sugar* 4 ozs.; candied citron or orange-rind, 2 ozs.; eggs, 4; milk or brandy, 3 to 5 tablespoonsful: 4 hours.