MODERN COOKERY. 508 [CHAP. XXII whole of these together for about five minutes; have the walnuts ready in a stone jar, or jars, and pour it on them as it is taken from the fire. When the pickle is quite cold, cover the jar securely, and store it in a dry place. Keep the walnuts always well covered with vinegar, and boil that which is added to them. Walnuts, 100; in brine made with 12 ozs. salt to 2 quarts water, and changed twice or more, 9 or 12 days. Vinegar, full 2 gallon; salt, 1 teaspoonful; whole black pepper, 2 ozs.; ginger, 3 ozs.; mace, 1 drachm; cloves, £ to \ oz.; small onions, 4 to 6 ; mustard-seed, 4 ozs.: 5 minutes. TO PICKLE BEET-ROOT. Boil the beet-root tender by the directions of page 329, and when it is quite cold, pare and slice it; put it into a jar, and cover it with vinegar previously boiled and allowed to become again perfectly cold: it will soon be ready for use. It is excellent when merely covered with Chili vinegar. A few small shalots may be boiled in the pickle for it when their flavour is liked. To each quart vinegar, salt, 1 teaspoonful; cayenne tied in muslin, \ saltspoonful, or white peppercorns, | to whole oz. to PICKLED ESCHALOTS. For a quart of ready-peeled eschalots, add to the same quan- tity of the best pale white wine vinegar, a dessertspoonful of salt, and an ounce of whole white pepper; bring these quickly to a boil, take off the scum, throw in the eschalots, simmer them for two minutes only, turn them into a clean stone jar, and when they are quite cold, tie a skin, or two folds of thick paper over it. Eschalots, 1 quart; vinegar, 1 quart; salt, 1 dessertspoonful; whole white pepper, 1 oz. Obs.—The sooner the eschalots are pickled after they are ripe and dry, the better they will be. PICKLED ONIONS. Take the smallest onions that can be procured,* just after they are harvested, for they are never in so good a state for the pur- pose as then; proceed, after having peeled them, exactly as for the eschalots, and when they begin to look clear, which will be in three or four minutes, put them into jars, and pour the ® The Reading onion is the proper kind for pickling.