CHAP. IX.] VEAL. 211 percorns. Raise these high in the centre of the stewpan, so a& to support the meat, and prevent its touching the gravy. Cover them with slices of very fat bacon, and place the fricandeau gently on them; then pour in as much good veal broth, or stock, as will nearly cover the vegetables without reaching to the veal. A calf’s foot, split in two, may with advantage be laid under them in the first instance. Stew the fricandeau very gently for upwards of three hours, or until it is found to be extremely tender when probed with a fine skewer or a larding- pin. Plenty of live embers must then be put on the lid of the stewpan for ten minutes, or a quarter of an hour, to render the lardoons firm. Lift out the fricandeau, and keep it hot; strain and reduce the gravy very quickly, after having skimmed off every particle of fat; glaze the veal, and serve it on a ragout of sorrel, cucumbers, or spinach. This, though rather an elaborate receipt, is the best we can offer to the reader for a dish, which is now almost as fashionable with us as it is common on the Continent. Some English cooks have a very summary method of preparing it; they merely lard and boil the veal until they can “ cut it with a spoon,” then glaze and serve it with “ brown gravy in the dish.” This may be very tolerable eating, but it will bear small resemblance to the French fricandeau. to 4 hours. SPRING-STEW OF VEAL. Cut two pounds of veal, free from fat, into small half-inch thick cutlets ; flour them well, and fry them in butter with two small cucumbers sliced, sprinkled with pepper, and floured, one moderate sized lettuce, and twenty four green gooseberries cut open lengthwise and seeded. When the whole is nicely browned, lift it into a thick saucepan, and pour gradually into the pan half a pint, or rather more, of boiling water, broth, or gravy. Add as much salt and pepper as it requires. Give it a minute’s simmer, and pour it over the meat, shaking it well round the pan as this is done. Let the veal stew gently from three quar- ters of an hour to an hour. A bunch of green onions cut small may be added to the other vegetables if liked; and the veal will eat better, if slightly seasoned with salt and pepper before it is floured ;• a portion of fat can be left on it if preferred. Veal, 2 lbs.; cucumbers, 2 ; lettuce, 1; green gooseberries, 24; water or broth, \ pint or more ; f to 1 hour. BREZOLLES. Cut from the loin or fillet, three pounds of veal, in the thin-