402 [CHAP. XVIII. MODERN COOKERY. a lemon, a dessertspoonful of sugar, and four large, or five small eggs ; pour the whole into a well-buttered dish, and put over the top clarified butter and sugar, as in the preceding receipt. Bake the pudding for a full hour and twenty minutes. Potatoes, i lb.; mincemeat, f lb.; rind of lemon, \; sugar, 1 dessertspoonful; eggs, 4 large, or 5 small: 1 hour 20 minutes. BAKED APPLE PUDDING, OR CUSTARD. Weigh a pound of good boiling apples after they are pared and cored, and stew them to a perfectly smooth marmalade, with six ounces of sugar, and a spoonful or two of water: stir them often that they may not stick to the pan. Mix with them while they are still quite hot, three ounces of butter, the grated rind and the strained juice of a lemon, and lastly, stir in by degrees the well-beaten yolks of five eggs, and a dessertspoonful of flour, or in lieu of the last, three or four Naples’ biscuits, or macaroons crushed small. Bake the pudding for a full half hour in a moderate oven, or longer should it not be quite firm in the middle. A little clarified butter poured on the top, with sugar sifted over, improves all baked puddings. Apples, 1 lb.; sugar, 6 ozs.; water, 1 cupful; butter, 3 ozs.; juice and rind, 1 lemon; 5 eggs: \ hour, or more. Obs.—Many cooks press the apples through a sieve after they are boiled, but this is not needful when they are of a good kind, and stewed, and beaten smooth. ANOTHER BAKED APPLE PUDDING. Stew until smooth and dry, a pound of apples, with seven ounces of sugar, and a very little water; add to them five ounces of butter, the grated rinds of two moderate-sized lemons, and the juice of one and a half, the beaten yolks of six eggs, and the whites of three; do not add the eggs until the butter is dissolved, then stir them in quickly in small portions ; beat the whole well together; add, if it can be obtained, two or three spoonsful of the syrup of preserved ginger, and one of flour, or a little crushed Naples’ biscuit, put a border of paste round a dish, pour in the pudding, and bake it from half to three quarters of an hour. Apples, 1 lb.; sugar, 7 ozs.; water, 4 tablespoonsful; butter, 5 ozs.; rinds of 2 lemons, juice of 1|; yolks of eggs, 6, whites, 3; syrup of preserved ginger, 3 spoonsful: 30 to 45 minutes. A COMMON BAKED APPLE PUDDING. Boil a pound and a quarter of apples with half a small cupful