Ill SAUCES. CHAP. IV.] it at pleasure. Many persons use it with fish. It is good cold; and, if bottled directly it is made, may he stored for several days. It is the better for being mixed some hours before it is served. The proportion of cayenne may be doubted when a very pungent sauce is desired. Good cayenne pepper in fine powder, 1 heaped saltspoonful; salt, half as much; pounded sugar, 1 small dessertspoonful; strained lemon-juice, 1 tablespoonful; Harvey’s sauce, 2 table- spoonsful ; best mushroom catsup (or cavice), 1 teaspoonful; port wine, 3 tablespoonsful, or small wineglassful. (Little es- chalot, or garlic-vinegar at pleasure.) Obs.—This sauce is exceedingly good when mixed with the brown gravy of a hash or stew, or with that which is served with game or other dishes. poor man’s sauce. {Served with Turkey Poults.') Mix with four tablespoonsful of minced eschalots, half a tea- spoonful of salt, nearly as much pepper, two tablespoonsful of water, and three of good sharp vinegar. Boil the sauce for a few minutes, and serve it hot; or send it to table cold, when it is liked so. Vinegar may entirely supply the place of the water in this case, and a spoonful or two of oil may be mixed with it. A small dessertspoonful of minced parsley, tarragon, or chervil, is likewise sometimes mixed with the eschalots. Their strong flavour may be in some measure weakened by steeping them for an hour or more in a pint of cold water after they are minced. salad dressing. For a salad of moderate size pound very smoothly the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs with a small teaspoonful of unmade mustard, half as much sugar in fine powder, and a saltspoonful of salt. Mix gradually with these a small cup of cream, or the same quantity of very pure oil, and two tablespoonsful of vine- gar. More salt and acid can be added at pleasure; but the latter usually predominates too much in English salads. A few drops of Chili or of cayenne vinegar will improve this receipt. Hard yolks of eggs, 2 ; unmade mustard, 1 small teaspoonful ; sugar, half as much; salt, 1 saltspoonful; cream or oil, small cupful; vinegar, 2 tablespoonsful. Obs. 1.—To some tastes a teaspoonful or more of eschalot vinegar would be an acceptable addition to this sauce, which may be otherwise varied in numberless ways. Cucumber, or