MODERN COOKERY. [chap. VIII. 182 plenty of boiling water, slightly salted, and simmer it for fifteen minutes, then take it up, and put it into fresh water to cool; wipe it, and lay it round in a small stewpan without dividing it; just cover it with good beef gravy, and stew it gently until very tender; drain it a little, sprinkle over it a small quantity of salt and cayenne; dip it into clarified butter, and then into some fine bread-crumbs, with which it should be thickly covered; lay it on the gridiron, and when equally browned all over serve it immediately. If more convenient, the ox-tail may be set into the oven, or before the fire, until properly coloured : it may likewise be sent to table without broiling, dished upon stewed cabbage, or in its own gravy thickened, and with tomata sauce, in a tureen. TO SAI/T AND PICKLE BEEP, IN VARIOUS WAYS. Let the meat hang a couple of days in mild weather, and four or five in winter, before it is salted or pickled. During the heat of summer it is better to immerse it entirely in brine, that it may be secured alike from the flies, and from the danger of becoming putrid. Trim it, and take out the kernels from the fat; then rub a little fine dry salt over it, and leave it until the following day ; drain it well from the blood, which will be found to have flowed from it, and it will be ready for any of the following modes of curing, which are all excellent of their kind, and have been well proved. In very cold weather, the salt may be applied quite warm to the meat: it should always be perfectly dry, and reduced to powder. Saltpetre hardens and renders meat indigestible ; sugar, on the contrary, mellows and improves it much ; and it is more tender when cured with bay salt than when common salt is used for it. TO SALT AND BOIL A ROUND OF BEEF. Mix an ounce of saltpetre, finely powdered, with half a pound of very coarse sugar, and rub the beef thoroughly with them; in two days add three quarters of a pound of common salt, well dried and beaten; turn and,rub the meat well in every part with the pickle for three weeks, when it will be fit to dress. Just wash off the salt, and skewer the beef as round and as even as possible ; bind it tightly with broad tape, cover it with cold water, and let it simmer gently for at least five hours. Carrots, mashed turnips, or cabbages, are usually served with boiled beef; and horse-radish stewed for ten minutes in equal parts of