[CHAP. IV. 310 MODERN COOKERY. by degrees, three dessertspoonsful of vinegar, one of which should be Chili vinegar when the horseradish is mild. To heat the sauce, put it into a small and delicately clean saucepan, hold it over, but do not place it upon the fire, and stir it without intermission until it is near the point of simmering, but do not allow it to boil, or it will curdle instantly. Horseradish pulp, 2 ozs. (or, 2 large tablespoonsful) ; salt, 1 teaspoonful; good cream, 4 tablespoonsful; vinegar, 3 dessert- spoonsful (of which one should be Chili when the root is mild). Obs.~~ Common English salad-mixture is often added to the grated horseradish when the sauce is to be served cold. HOT HORSERADISH SAUCE. (To serve with boiled or stewed meat, or Jish.') Mix three ounces of young tender grated horseradish with half a pint of good brown gravy, and let it stand by the side of the fire until it is on the point of boiling; add salt if required, a teaspoonful of made-mustard, and a dessertspoonful of garlic or of eschalot vinegar, if at hand ; if not, substitute Chili vine- gar, or twice as much common vinegar for it. Some cooks stew the horseradish in vinegar for ten minutes, and after having drained it from this, mix it with nearly half a pint of thick melted butter. Horseradish, grated, 3 ozs.; brown gravy, \ pint; made- mustard, 1 teaspoonful; eschalot or garlic vinegar, 1 dessert- spoonful (or, Chili vinegar, same quantity, or common vinegar, twice as much). CHRISTOPHER NORTH’S OWN SAUCE FOR MANY MEATS. Throw into a small basin, a heaped saltspoonful of good ca- yenne pepper, in very fine powder, and half the quantity of salt ;* add a small dessertspoonful of well-refined, pounded, and sifted sugar ; mix these thoroughly; then pour in a tablespoon- ful of the strained juice of a fresh lemon, two of Harvey’s sauce, a teaspoonful of the very best mushroom catsup (or of cavice), and three tablespoonsful, or a small wineglassful, of port wine. Heat the sauce by placing the basin in a saucepan of boiling water, or turn it into ajar, and place this in the water. Serve it directly it is ready with geese or ducks, tame or wild; roast pork, venison, fawn, a grilled blade-bone, or any other broil. A slight flavour of garlic or eschalot vinegar may be given to * Characteristically, the salt of this sauce ought, perhaps, to prevail more strongly overihe sugar, but it will be found for most tastes sufficiently piquant as it is.