[[chap. I. MODERN COOKERY. 20 coarse sieve or soup-strainer, put it again on the fire, keep it stirred until it has boiled three minutes, take off the scum, add salt and pepper, if required, and serve it very hot. Turnips 3 lbs.; butter 4 ozs.: | hour. Soup 2 quarts: f hour. Last time : 3 minutes. A QUICKLY MADE TURNIP SOUP. Pare and slice into three pints of veal or mutton stock, or of good broth, three pounds of young mild turnips; stew them gently from twenty-five to thirty minutes, or until they can be reduced quite to pulp; press the whole through a sieve, add to it another quart of stock, a seasoning of salt, white pepper, and one lump of sugar; simmer it a minute or two, skim and serve it. A large white onion, when the flavour is liked, may be sliced and stewed with the turnips. A little cream improves much the colour of this soup. Turnips, 3 lbs.; soup, 5 pints: 25 to 30 minutes. POTATO SOUP. Mash to a smooth paste three pounds of good mealy potatoes, which have been steamed, or boiled very dry; mix with them by degrees, two quarts of boiling broth, pass the soup through a strainer, set it again on the fire, add pepper and salt, and let it boil five minutes. Take off entirely the black scum that will rise upon it, and serve it very hot with fried or toasted bread. Where the flavour is approved, two ounces of onions, minced and fried a light brown, may be added to the soup, and stewed in it for ten minutes before it is sent to table. Potatoes, 3 lbs.; broth, 2 quarts: 5 minutes. (With onions, 2 ozs.:) 10 minutes. APPLE SOUP. (Soupe a la B ourguignon.') Clear the fat from five pints of good mutton-broth, bouillon, or shin of beef stock, and strain it through a fine sieve; add to it, when it boils, a pound and a half of good pudding apples, and stew them down in it very softly, ttf a smooth pulp; press the whole through a strainer, add a small teaspoonful of pow- dered ginger, and plenty of pepper, simmer the soup for a couple of minutes, skim, and serve it very hot, accompanied by a dish of rice, boiled as for curries. Broth, 5 pints; apples, 1 \ lb.: 25 to 40 minutes. Ginger, 1 teaspoonful; pepper, £ teaspoonful: 2 minutes.