SAUCES. CHAP. IV ] 113 jellied when cold, will answer very well for this sauce when no richer is at hand: a little Chili vinegar is a good addition to it. MAYONNAISE. (A very fine sauce for cold meat, poultry, fish, or salad.) Put into a large basin the yolks only of two fine and very fresh eggs, carefully freed from the germs, with a little salt and cayenne; stir these well together, then add about a teaspoonful of the purest salad oil, and work the mixture round with a wooden spoon until it appears like cream. Pour in by slow degrees nearly half a pint of oil, continuing at each interval to work the sauce as at first until it resumes the smoothness of a custard, and not a particle of the oil remains visible ; then add a couple of tablespoonsful of plain or of tarragon vinegar, and one of cold water to whiten the sauce. A bit of clear veal jelly the size of an egg will improve it greatly; and a morsel of garlic not larger than a pea, bruised as fine as possible, will give it a very agreeable relish, even to persons to whom garlic gene- rally is distasteful. In lieu of this, a few drops of eschalot vinegar may be stirred in ; and the flavour may be varied with lemon-juice, and cucumber, or Chili vinegar at choice. The reader who may have a prejudice against the unboiled eggs which enter into the composition of the Mayonnaise, will find that the most fastidious taste would not detect their being raw, if the sauce be well made; and persons who dislike oil may partake of it in this form, without being aware of its presence, provided always that it be perfectly fresh, and pure in flavour, for otherwise it is easily perceptible. Yolks of fresh unboiled eggs, 2 ; salt, \ saltspoonful or rather more; cayenne; oil, full third of pint; common, or tarragon vinegar, 2 tablespoonsful; cold water, 1 tablespoonful; garlic, morsel size of pea (or few drops of eschalot vinegar). Meat jelly (if at hand), size of an egg. Ohs.—When a much larger proportion of vinegar is liked, a third yolk of egg should be used, or the sauce will be too thin. It is sometimes coloured green with the juice of parsley, and other herbs. A spoonful or two of cold bechamel, or of good white sauce, is always an improvement to it. KEMOUI/ADE. This differs little from an ordinary salad dressing. Pound very smoothly indeed the yolks of two or three hard- boiled eggs with a teaspoonful of mustard, half as much salt, and some ea- i