116 [CIIAP. IY. MODERN COOKERY. become yellow if reboiled, or if left long in the sauce before it is served. Asparagus points, \ pint: boiled 10 to 15 minutes, longer if not quite tender. Thickened veal gravy, \ pint; yolks of eggs, 2. Or: good melted butter, \ pint; lemon-juice, small dessertspoonful, seasoning of salt and white pepper. GREEN MINT SAUCE, FOR ROAST LAMB. The mint for this sauce should be fresh and young, for the leaves when old are tough. Strip them from the stems, wash them with great nicety, and drain them on a sieve or dry them in a cloth. Chop them very fine, put them into a sauce-tureen, and to three heaped tablespoonsful of the mint add two of pounded sugar; mix them well, and then add gradually six tablespoonsful of good vinegar. The sauce made thus is excellent, but Lisbon sugar can be used for it when preferred, and all the proportions can be varied to the taste. It is com- monly served too liquid, and not sufficiently sweetened ; and it will be found much more wholesome, and generally far more palatable made by this receipt. Young mint minced, 3 heaped tablespoonsful; pounded sugar, 2 tablespoonsful; vinegar, 6 tablespoonsful. CAPER SAUCE. Stir into the third of a pint of good melted butter from three to four dessertspoonsful of capers; add a little of the vinegar, and dish the sauce as soon as it boils. Keep it stirred after the berries are added: part of them may be minced and a little Chili vinegar substituted for their own. Pickled nasturtiums make a very good sauce, and their flavour is sometimes pre- ferred to that of the capers. For a large joint, increase the quantity of butter to half a pint. Melted butter, third of pint; capers, 3 to 4 dessertspoonsful. BROWN CAPER SAUCE. Thicken half a pint of good veal or beef gravy as directed for Sauce Tournee, and add to it two tablespoonsful of capers, and a dessertspoonful of the pickle liquor, or of Chili vinegar, with some cayenne if the former be used, and a proper seasoning of salt. Thickened veal, or beef gravy, ^ pint; capers, 2 tablespoons- ful ; caper-liquor or Chili vinegar, 1 dessertspoonful.