133 STORE SAUCES. CUAP. V.] pressing the mushrooms ; strain and measure it; put it into a very clean stewpan, and boil it quickly until reduced nearly or quite half. Por every quart, allow half an ounce of whole black pepper, and a drachm of mace ; or, instead of the pepper, a quarter-teaspoonful (ten grains) of good cayenne; pour the catsup into a clean jug or jar, lay a folded cloth over it, and keep it in a cool place until the following day; pour it gently from the sediment, put it into small bottles, cork them well, and rosin them down. A teaspoonful of salad-oil may be poured into each bottle before it is corked, the better to exclude the air from the catsup: it must be kept in a dry cool place. Mushrooms, 2 gallons ; salt, f lb.; to macerate three or four days. To each quart of liquor, l oz. black pepper, or quarter- teaspoonful cayenne ; and 1 drachm mace : to be reduced half. Obs. 1.—Catsup made thus will not be too salt, nor will the flavour of the mushrooms be overpowered by that of the spices; of which a larger quantity, and a greater variety, can be used at will. Obs. 2.—After the mushrooms have stood for three or four days, as we have directed, the whole may be turned into a large stewpan, brought slowly to a boil, and simmered for a few minutes before the liquor is strained off. We think the catsup keeps rather better when this is done, but we recommend only just sufficient simmering to preserve it well. When the mush- rooms are crushed, or mashed, as some authors direct, the liquor will necessarily be very thick; it is better to proceed as above, and then to boil the ^squeez ings of the mushrooms with the sediment of the catsqp, and sufficient cloves, pepper, allspice, and ginger, to flavour it highly: this second catsup will be found very useful to mix with common thickened sauces, hashes, and stews. In some seasons it is necessary to boil the catsup with the spice a second time after it has been kept for three or four months: this, byway of precaution, i;an always be done, but it had better then be put into large'bottles in the first instance, and stored iifthe small ones afterwards. MUSHROOM CATSUP. (Another Receipt.) Break a peck of large mushrooms into a deep earthen-pan; strew three quarters of a pound of salt amongst them, and set them into a very cool oven for one night, with a fold of cloth or paper over them. The following day strain off the liquor, measure, and boil it for fifteen minutes; then, for each quart, add an ounce of black pepper, a quarter-ounce of allspice, half an ounce