[Thap. IV. 122 MODERN COOKERY. SOUBISE. (French Receipt.) Peel some fine white onions, and trim away all tongh and discoloured parts; mince them small, and throw them into plenty of boiling water ; when they have boiled quickly for five minutes, drain them well in a sieve, then stew them very softly indeed in an ounce or two of fresh butter, until they are dry and perfectly tender ; stir to them as much bechamel as will bring them to the consistency of very thick peas soup, pass the whole through a strainer, pressing the onion strongly that none may remain behind, and heat the sauce afresh, without allowing it to boil. A small half-teaspoonful of pounded sugar is sometimes added to this soubise. White part of onions, 2 lbs.: blanched 5 minutes. Butter, 2 ozs.: 30 to 50 minutes. Bechamel, f to 1 pint, or more. Obs.—These sauces are served more particularly with lamb or mutton cutlets, than with any other meats; but they would probably find many approvers if sent to table with roast mutton, or boiled veal. Half the quantity given above will be sufficient for a moderate-sized dish. MILD RAGOUT OF GARLIC, OR, L’AIL X LA BORDELAISE. Divide some fine cloves of garlic, strip off the skin, and when all are ready, throw them into plenty of boiling water, slightly salted; in five minutes drain this from them, and pour in as much more, which should also be quite boiling; continue to change it every five or six minutes until the garlic is quite tender ; throw in a moderate proportion of salt the last time to give it the proper flavour. Drain it thoroughly, and serve it in the dish with roast mutton, or put it into good brown gravy, or white sauce for table. By changing very frequently the water in which it is boiled, the root will be deprived of its naturally pungent flavour and smell, and rendered extremely mild; when it is not wished to be quite so much so, change the water every ten minutes only. Garlic, 1 pint: 15 to 25 minutes or more. Water to be changed every 5 or 6 minutes; or every 10 minutes when not wished so very mild. Gravy or sauce, 1 pint. MILD ESCHALOT SAUCE. Prepare and boil from half to a whole pint of eschalots by the preceding receipt; unless very large, they will be tender in about fifteen minutes, sometimes in less, in which case the water