[CHAP. VIII. 190 MODERN COOKERY. SCOTCH MINCED COELOPS. “ Chop the beef small, season it with salt and pepper, put it, in its raw state, into small jars, and pour on the top some clari- fied butter. When wanted for use put the clarified butter into a frying-pan, and slice some onions into The pan and fry them. Add a little water to them, and then put in the minced meat. Stew it well, and in a few minutes it will he fit to serve.” BEEF TONGUES. These may he cured by any of the receipts which we have already given for pickling beef, or for those which will he found further on for hams and bacon. Some persons prefer them cured with salt and saltpetre only, and dried naturally in a cool and airy room. For such of our readers as like them highly and richly flavoured we give our own method of having them prepared, which is this :—“ Rub over the tongue a handful of fine salt, and let it drain until the following day; then, should it weigh from seven to eight pounds, mix thoroughly an ounce of saltpetre, two ounces of the coarsest sugar, and half an ounce of black pepper; when the tongue has been well rubbed with these, add three ounces of bruised juniper-berries; and when it has laid two days, eight ounces of bay salt, dried and pounded ; at the end of three days more, pour on it half a pound of treacle, and let it remain in the pickle a fortnight after this ; then hang it to drain, fold it in brown paper, and send it to be smoked over a wood fire for two or three weeks. Should the peculiar flavour of the juniper-berries prevail too much, or be disap- proved, they may be in part, or altogether, omitted; and six ounces of sugar may be rubbed into the tongue in the first in- stance when it is liked better than treacle. Tongue, 7 to 8 lbs.; saltpetre, 1 oz.; black pepper, ^ oz.; sugar, 2 ozs.; juniper-berries, 3 ozs.: 2 days. Bay salt, 8 ozs.: 3 days. Treacle, \ lb.: 14 days. Obs.—Before the tongue is salted, the gullet, which has an unsightly appearance, should be trimmed away : it is indeed usual to take the root off entirely, but some families prefer it left on for the sake of the fat. BEEF TONGUES. (A Suffolk Receipt.') For each very large tongue, mix with half a pound of salt two ounces of saltpetre and three quarters of a pound of the coarsest sugar; rub the tongues daily, and turn them in the pickle for