347 CHAP. XVI.] PASTRY. a sugar loaf, put it upright on the table, then with the palms of your hands flatten the sides of it; when you have equalized it all round and it is quite smooth, squeeze the middle of the point down to half the height of the paste,” then hollow the inside by pressing it with the fingers, and in doing this be care- ful to keep it in every part of equal thickness. Fill it,* roll out the cover, egg the edges, press them securely together, make a hole in the centre, lay a roll of paste round it, and encircle this with a wreath of leaves, or ornament the pie in any other way, according to the taste; glaze it with well-beaten oik of egg, and bake it from two to three hours in a well- eated oven if it he small, and from four to five hours if it be large, though the time must be regulated in some measure by the nature of the contents, as well as by the size of the dish. Obs.—We know not if we have succeeded in making the reader comprehend that this sort of pie (with the exception of the cover, for which a portion must at first be taken off) is mafe from one solid lump of paste, which, after having been shaped into a cone, as Monsieur Ude directs, or into a high round, or oval form, is hollowed by pressing down the centre with the knuckles, and continuing to knead the inside equally round with the one hand, while the other is pressed close to the outside. It is desirable that the mode of doing this should be once seen by the learner, if possible, as mere verbal instruc- tions are scarcely sufficient to enable the quite-inexperienced cook to comprehend at once the exact form and appearance which should be given to the paste. A VOE-ATJ-VENT. (ENTREE.) This dish can be suc- cessfully made only with the finest and lightest puff - paste (see fewilletage, page 335), as its height, which ought to be from four to five inches, depends en- tirely on its rising in the oven. Roll it to something more than an inch in thickness, a ^°r mo<^e doing this, see observations, page 343, and note, page 346. A ham must be boiled or stewed tender, and freed from the skin and blackened parts before it is laid in; poultry and game, boned; and all meat highly seasoned. ’ °