459 SWEET DISHES. CHAP. XX.] beaten to powder, three quarters of a teaspoonful of pounded cinnamon, and the strained juice of a lemon; let these stew over a gentle fire, until they form a perfectly smooth and dnj marmalade; keep them often stirred that they may not burn, and let them cool before they are put into the crust. This quantity is for a moderate-sized Charlotte. A CHARLOTTE A LA PARISIENNE. This dish is sometimes called in England a Vienna cake; and it is known here also, we believe, as a Gateaux de Bordeaux. Cut horizontally into half-inch slices a Savoy or sponge cake, and cover each slice with a different kind of preserve ; replace them in their original form, and spread equally over the cake an icing made with the whites of three eggs, and four ounces of the finest pounded sugar; sift more sugar over it in every part, and put it into a very slack oven to dry. The eggs should fie whisked to snow before they are used. One kind of preserve, instead of several can be used for this dish; and a rice or a pound cake may supply the place of the Savoy, or sponge biscuit. A GERTRUDE A LA CREME. Slice a plain pound or rice cake as for the Charlotte a la Parisienne, and take a round out of the centre of each slice with a tin-cutter before the preserve is laid on ; replace the whole in its original form, ice the outside with a green or rose coloured icing at pleasure, and dry it in a gentle oven; or decorate if instead with leaves of almond paste, fastening them to it with white of egg. Just before it is sent to table, fill it with well- drained whipped cream, flavoured as for a trifle, or in any other way, to the taste. POMMES AU BEURRE. (Buttered apples. Excellent.) Pare six or eight fine apples of a firm kind, but of a good cooking sort, and core without piercing them through, or dividing them ; fill the cavities with fresh butter, put a quarter- pound more, cut small, into a stewpan just large enough to con- tain the apples in a single layer, place them closely together on it, and stew them as softly as possible, turning them occasionally until they are almost sufficiently tender to serve; then strew upon them as much sifted sugar as will sweeten the dish highly, and a teaspoonful of pounded cinnamon; shake these well in and upon the fruit, and stew it for a few minutes longer. Lift it out, arrange it in a hot dish, put into each apple as much