CHAP. XVI.]] PASTRY. 343 salt. One pound and a half of flour will he sufficient for the crust; this, when it is so preferred, may be laid round the sides only of the dish, instead of enti ely over it. The prime joints of a second hare may be substituted for the venison when it can be more conveniently procured. Baked 2 hours. Obs.—These same ingredients will make an excellent raised pie, if the venion be divided and intermixed with the hare; the whole should be highly seasoned, and all the cavities filled with the forcemeat No. 18 (page 151),* or with the truffled sausage-meat of p°ge 252. The top, before the paste is laid over, should be covered with slices of fat bacon, or with plenty of butter, to prevent the surface of the meat from becoming hard. No liquid is to be put into the pie until after it is baked, if at all. It will require from half to a full hour more of the oven than if baked in a dish. MODERN CHICKEN PIE. Skin, and cut down into joints a couple of fowls, take out all the bones, and season the flesh highly with salt, cayenne, pounded mace, and nutmeg; line a dish with a thin paste, and spread over it a layer of the finest sausage-meat, which has previously been moistened with a spoonful or two of cold water; over this place closely together some of the boned chicken joints, then more sausage-meat, and continue thus with alternate layers of each, until the dish is full; roll out, and fasten securely at the edges, a cover half an inch thick, trim off the superfluous paste, make an incision in the top, lay some paste leaves round it, glaze the whole with yolk of egg, and bake the pie from an hour and a half to two hours in a well heated oven. Lay a sheet or two of writing-paper over the crust, should it brown too quickly. Minced herbs can be mixed with the sausage-meat at pleasure, and a small quantity of eschalot also, where the flavour is much liked: it should be well moistened with water, or the whole will be unpalatably dry. The pie may be served hot or cold, but we would rather recommend the latter. A couple of very young tender rabbits will answer exceed- ingly well for it instead of fowls, and a border, or half paste in the dish will generally be preferred to an entire lining of the crust, which is now but rarely served, unless for pastry, which is to be taken out of the dish in which it is baked before it is sent to table. * The second or third mentioned forcemeat of this number is meant; but the sausage-meat can be used, if more convenient.