BEEF. CHAP. VIII.] 191 five weeks, when they will he fit to he dressed, or to be smoked. 1 large tongue; salt, | lb.; sugar, f lb.; saltpetre, 2 ozs.: 5 weeks. TO DRESS BEEF TONGUES. When taken fresh from the pickle they require no soaking, unless they should have remained in it much beyond the usual time, or have been cured with a more than common proportion of salt; but when they have been smoked and hung for some time, they should be laid for two or three hours in cold, and as much longer in tepid water, before they are dressed: if extremely dry, ten or twelve hours must be allowed to soften them, and they should always be brought very slowly to boil. Two or three carrots and a large bunch of savoury herbs, added after the scum is cleared off, will improve them. They should be simmered until they are extremely tender, when the skin will peel from them easily. A highly dried tongue will usually require from three and a half to four hours’ boiling; an un- smoked one about an hour less; and for one which has not been salted at all a shorter time will suffice. BORDYKE RECEIPT FOR STEWING A TONGUE. After the tongue has been soaked, trimmed, and washed with extreme nicety, lay it into a vessel of fitting size, and place round it three or four pounds of the neck, or of any other lean cuttings of beef, with some bones of undressed veal, and pour in sufficient cold water to keep it covered until it is done; or, instead of this, use strong unseasoned beef broth made with the shin, and any odd bits or bones of veal which may be at hand. Let the tongue be brought to boil very gradually, that it may be plump and tender. Remove the scum when it first rises, and when it is quite cleared off' add a large faggot of parsley, thyme, and winter savoury, three carrots, a small onion, and one mild turnip. After three hours, and a half of gentle simmering, probe the tongue, and if sufficiently done peel off' the skin and serve it quickly. If not wanted hot for table, lay it on a very clean board or trencher, and fasten it down to it by passing a carving fork through the root, and a smaller one through the tip, drawing the tongue straight with the latter before it is fixed in the board; let it remain thus until quite cold. It is much the fashion at present to glaze hams and tongues, but this should never be attempted by a cook not well acquainted with the manner of doing it, and the proper flavour and appearance of