215 VEAL. CHAP. IX.] VEAL CUTLETS, A LA MODE DE LONDRES ; OR, LONDON FASHION. (ENTREE.) Baise the flesh entire from the upper side of the best end of a neck of veal, free it from the skin, and from the greater por- tion of the fat, slice it equally into cutlets little more than a quarter of an inch thick, brush them with egg, strew them with fine bread-crumbs, and fry them of a light brown. Toast, or fry apart as many small slices of bacon as there are cutlets, and let them be trimmed nearly to the same shape; place them alternately on their edges round the inside of a hot dish (so as to form a sort of chain), and pour into the middle some rich gravy made in the pan, and very slightly flavoured with escha- lot; or substitute for this some good brown mushroom sauce. Savoury herbs, grated lemon-rind, nutmeg, or mace, salt, and white pepper, or cayenne, should be mixed with the bread- crumbs, in the proportions directed at page 200, for cutlets of calf’s head; or they may be varied at pleasure. A cheek of bacon is best adapted to this dish. SWEETBREADS SIMPLY DRESSED (ENTREE.) In whatever way sweetbreads are dressed, they should first be well soaked in lukewarm water, then thrown into boiling water to blanch them, as it is called, and to render them firm. If lifted out after they have boiled from five to ten minutes, according to their size, and laid immediately into fresh spring water to cool, their colour will be the better preserved. They may then be gently stewed for three quarters of an hour in veal gravy, which, with the usual additions of cream, lemon, and egg-yolks, may be converted into a fricassee sauce for them, when they are done; or they may be lifted from it, glazed, and served with good Spanish gravy; or, the glazing being omitted, they may be sauced with the sharp Maitre d'Hotel sauce of page 106. They may also be simply floured, and roasted in a Dutch oven, being often basted with butter, and frequently turned. A full sized sweetbread, after having been blanched, will require quite three quarters of an hour to dress it. Blanched 5 to 10 minutes. Stewed £ hour or more. SWEETBREAD CUTLETS. (ENTREE.) Boil the sweetbreads for half an hour in water, or veal broth, and when they are perfectly cold, cut them into slices of equal thickness, brush them with yolks of egg, and dip them into very