CHAP. XIX.] SOUFFLES, OMLETS, &C. 411 For other varieties of the omlet, see the observations which precede this. AN OMLETTE SOUFFLEE. Separate, as they are broken, the whites from the yolks of six fine fresh eggs; beat these last thoroughly, first by themselves and then with four tablespoonsful of dry, white sifted sugar, and the rind of half a lemon grated on a fine grater.* Whisk the whites to a solid froth, and just before the omlet is poured into the pan, mix them well, but lightly, with the yolks. Put four ounces of fresh butter into a very small delicately clean omlet, or frying pan, and as soon as it is all dissolved, add the eggs and stir them round, that they may absorb it entirely. When the under side is just set, turn the omlet into a well-but- tered dish, and send it to a tolerably brisk oven. From five to ten minutes will bake it; and it must be served the instant it is taken out; carried, indeed, as quickly as possible to table from the oven. It will have risen to a great height, but will sink and become heavy in a very short space of time: if sugar be sifted over it, let it be done with the utmost expedition. Eggs, 6; sugar, 4 tablespoonsful; rind, \ lemon; butter, 4 ozs.: omlet baked, 5 to 10 minutes. Obs.—A large common frying-pan will not answer for omlets: a very small one should be kept for them, when there is no re- gular omlet-pan. SOUFFLES. The admirable lightness and delicacy of a well-made souffle render it generally a very favourite dish, and it is now a fashion- able one also. It may be greatly varied in its composition, but in all cases must be served the very instant it is taken from the oven; and even in passing to the dining-room it should, if pos- sible, be prevented from sinking by a heated iron or salamander held above it. A common souffle-pan may be purchased for four or five shillings, but those of silver or plated metal which are of the form shown at the commencement of this chapter, are of course expensive; the part in which the souffle is baked is placed within the more ornamental dish when it is drawn from the oven. A plain, round, shallow cake-mould, with a strip of writing paper six inches high, placed inside the rim will answer on an emergency to bake a souffle in. The following receipt will serve as a guide for the proper mode of making it: the * As we have before said, a much more delicate flavour is imparted by rasping the lemon-rind on sugar.