445 CHAP. XX.] SWEET DISHES, OR ENTREMETS. milk with half a pint of cream; then stir the whole gradually to the well-beaten yolks of six fresh eggs, and thicken it like boiled custard. Put it, when cold, into a deep dish, beat to a solid froth the whites of the six eggs, mix them with five table- spoonsful of pounded and sifted sugar, and spread them evenly over the custard, which should be set immediately into a mode- rate oven, baked half an hour, and served directly it is taken out. New milk, 1 pint; rind of 1 lemon; bitter almonds, 5 ; sugar, 3 ozs.; cream, | pint; yolks of eggs, 6 ; frothed whites of eggs, 6; sifted sugar, 5 tablespoonsful: baked, \ hour. Obs.—A layer of apricot, peach, or magnum bonum, marma - lade, placed in the dish before the custard-mixture is poured in, will convert this into the Gentleman Commoner’s pudding. LEMON CREAM, MADE WITHOUT CREAM. Pour on the very thin rinds of two fresh lemons, and a pound of fine sugar broken small, or roughly powdered, one pint of boiling water, and let them remain an hour; then add the whites of six eggs and the yolks of two, previously well beaten together, and the juice of six lemons; mix them thoroughly, strain the whole into a deep jug, set this into a pan of boiling water, and stir the cream without quitting it until it is well thickened; pour it out, and continue the stirring at intervals until it is nearly cold, when it may be put into the glasses. In cool weather this cream Mull remain good for several days, and it should always be made at least twenty-four hours before it is served. Lemon-rinds, 2 ; sugar, 1 lb.; water, 1 pint: 1 hour. Whites of 6 eggs; yolks of 2 ; juice of 6 lemons. VERY GOOD LEMON CREAMS. Pour over the very thin rinds of two moderate-sized but perfectly sound fresh lemons, and six ounces of sugar, half a pint of spring water, and let them remain six hours ; then add the strained juice of the lemons, and five fresh eggs well beaten, and also strained; take out the lemon-rind, and stir the mixture without ceasing over a gentle fire until it has boiled softly from six to eight minutes: it will not curdle as it would did milk supply the place of the water and lemon-juice. The creams are, we think, more delicate, though not quite so thick, when the yolks only of six eggs are used for them. They will keep well for nearly a week in really cold weather. Rinds of lemons, H; sugar, 6 ozs. (or 8 when a very sweet dish