CHAP. XXIII.] CAKES. 527 Flour, 1 lb.; butter, 6 ozs.; sugar, f lb.; cinnamon, 1 dessertspoonful (more or less, to the taste) ; eggs, 3 to 4. Qbs— Lemon cakes can be made by this receipt by substitut- ing for the cinnamon the rasped or grated rinds of two lemons, and the strained juice of one, when its acidity is not objected to. More butter, and more or less of sugar, can be used at will, both, for these and for the cinnamon cakes. QUEEN CAKES. To make these, proceed exactly as for Sutherland puddings (see Chapter XVII.), but allow ten eggs for the pound of sugar, butter, and flour, and when these are all well mixed, throw in half a teaspoonful of mace, and a pound of clean dry currants. Bake the cakes in small well-buttered tin pans (heart-shaped ones are usual), in a somewhat brisk oven, for about twenty minutes. JUMBEES. Rasp on some good sugar the rinds of a couple of lemons ; | dry, reduce it to powder, and sift it with as much more as will make up a pound in weight; mix with it one pound of flour, four well-beaten eggs and six ounces of warm butter: drop j the mixture on buttered tins, and bake the jumbles in a very slow oven from twenty to thirty minutes. They should be pale, but perfectly crisp. A CHEAP COMMON CAKE. Knead well into a couple of pounds of light, well-risen, bread-dough, half a pound of butter, half a pound of Lisbon sugar, and half a pound of currants ; add some grated nutmeg, I and leave the cake to rise for an hour, then bake it in a rather brisk oven for about an hour and a quarter. For children, two ounces of the butter may be omitted; but when a somewhat richer cake is desired four ounces more of sugar and of cur- rants, a little candied peel, and the yolks of a couple of eggs, or a small cup of warm cream, may be added to it. Some cooks despatch it to the oven as soon as it is mixed, but it is not then so light. A GOOD SODA CAKE. Break down half a pound of fresh butter into a pound of fine dry flour, and work it into very small crumbs ; mix well with these half a pound of sifted sugar, and pour to them first, a quarter of a pint of boiling milk, and next, three well-