PORK. CHAP. XI.] 245 them with bran, and let them be hung for a month high in a chimney over a wood-fire to be smoked. Hams, of from 15 to 18 lbs. each, 2 ; to drain 3 days. Com- mon salt, and coarse sugar, each 1 lb.; saltpetre, 2 ozs.: 3 days. Vinegar, 1 bottle : 1 month. To be smoked 1 month. Obs.—Such of our readers as shall make trial of this ad- mirable receipt, will acknowledge, we doubt not, that the hams thus cured are in reality superior to those of Westphalia. It was originally given to the public by the celebrated French cook, Monsieur Ude, to whom, after having proved it, we are happy to acknowledge our obligation for it. He directs that the hams when smoked should be hung as high as possi- ble from the fire, that the fat may not be melted; a very necessary precaution, as the mode of their being cured renders it peculiarly liable to do so. This, indeed, is somewhat per- ceptible in the cooking, which ought, therefore, to be con- ducted with especial care. The hams should be very softly simmered,* and not over-done. They should be large, and of finely-fed pork, or the receipt will not answer. We give the result of our first trial of it, which was perfectly successful. Leg of Suffolk farm-house pork, 14 to 15 lbs ; saltpetre, II oz.; strong coarse salt, 6 ozs.; coarse sugar, 8 ozs.: 3 days. Fine white-wine vinegar, 1 pint. In pickle, turned daily, 1 month. Smoked over wood, 1 month. Obs.—When two hams are pickled together a smaller pro- portion of the ingredients is required for each, than for one which is cured by itself. HAMS. (Bordyke Receipt.') After the hams have been rubbed with salt, and well drained from the brine, according to our previous directions, take, for each fourteen pounds weight of the pork, one ounce of saltpetre in fine powder, mixed with three ounces of the coarsest sugar; rub the meat in every part with these, and let it remain some hours, then cover it well with eight ounces of bay-salt, dried and pounded, and mixed with four ounces of common salt: in four days add one pound of treacle, and keep the hams turned daily, and well basted with the pickle for a month. Hang them up to drain for a night, fold them in brown paper, and send them to be smoked for a month. An ounce of ground black pepper is often mixed with the saltpetre in this receipt, and three * We have not been able to make the trial ourselves, but we think, they would be even finer baked than boiled.