CHAP. XVIII.J BAKED PUDDINGS. 407 four ounces of whole boiled rice, eight ounces of sugar, a small slice of butter, and five large, or six small eggs. APPEE-AND-RICE PUDDING. Boil together one pound of good pudding-apples, and six ounces of sugar, until they are reduced to a smooth pulp; stir them often to prevent their burning; mix with them four ounces of boiled rice, two ounces of butter, and five large eggs. Should the apples be very acid, increase the quantity of sugar : add lemon rind or juice, at pleasure. These puddings are better if mixed while the ingredients are still warm. Apples, 1 lb.; sugar, 6 ozs.; boiled rice, 4 ozs.; butter, 2 ozs.; eggs, 5: 30 to 35 minutes. COMMON RAISIN PUDDING. Beat well together three quarters of a pound of flour, the same quantity of raisins, six ounces of beef-suet, finely chopped, a small pinch of salt, some grated nutmeg, and three eggs which have been thoroughly whisked, and mixed with about a quarter-pint of milk, or less than this, should the eggs be large. Pour the whole into a buttered dish, and bake it an hour and a quarter. For a large pudding, increase the quan- tities one half. Flour and stoned raisins, each f lb.; suet, 6 ozs.; salt, small pinch; nutmeg, \ teaspoonful; eggs, 3; milk, £ pint: 1| hour. A RICHER RAISIN PUDDING. Mix and whisk well, and lightly together, a pound of raisins weighed after they are stoned, ten ounces of finely minced beef- suet, three quarters of a pound of flour, a little salt, half a small nutmeg, or the grated rind of a lemon, four large eggs, and as much milk as may be needed to make the whole into a very thick batter: bake the pudding a few minutes longer than the preceding one. The addition of sugar will be found no im- provement as it will render it much less light. poor author’s pudding. Flavour a quart of new milk by boiling in it for a few minutes half a stick of well-bruised cinnamon, or the thin rind of a small lemon; add a few grains of salt, and three ounces of sugar, and turn the whole into a deep basin; when it is quite cold, stir to it three well-beaten eggs, and strain the mixture