477 CHAP. XXI.] PRESERVES. jelly often until it boils; clear it carefully from scum, and boil it quickly from fifteen to twenty-five minutes. Equal weight of strawberry-juice and sugar: 15 to 25 minutes. Obs.—This receipt is for a moderate quantity of the pre- serve : a very small portion will require much less time. TO PRESERVE STRAWBERRIES OR RASPBERRIES, FOR CREAMS OR ICES, WITHOUT BOLLING. Let the fruit be gathered in the middle of a warm day, in very dry weather; strip it from the stalks directly, weigh it, turn it into a bowl or deep pan, and mix with it an equal weight of fine dry sifted sugar, and put it immediately into small, wide-necked bottles ; cork these firmly without delay, and tie bladder over the tops. Keep them in a cool place, or the fruit will ferment. The mixture should be stirred softly, and only just sufficiently to blend the sugar and the fruit. The bottles must be perfectly dry, and the bladders, after having been cleaned in the usual way, and allowed to become nearly so, should be moistened with a little spirit on the side which is- to be next to the cork. Unless these pre- * cautions be observed, there will be some danger of the whole being spoiled. Equal weight of fruit and sugar. RASPBERRY JAM. Bruise gently, with the back of a wooden spoon, six pounds of ripe, and freshly-gathered raspberries, and boil them over a brisk fire for twenty-live minutes; stir to them half their weight of good sugar, roughly powdered, and when it is dissolved, boil the preserve quickly for ten minutes, keeping it well stirred and skimmed. When a richer jam is wished for, add to the fruit at first its full weight of sugar, and boil them together twenty minutes. Baspberries, 6 lbs.: 25 minutes. Sugar, 3 lbs.: 10 minutes. GOOD RED OR WHITE RASPBERRY JAM. Boil quickly, for twenty minutes, four pounds of either red or white sound ripe raspberries in a pound and a half of cur- rant-juice of the same colour; take the pan from the fire, stir in three pounds of sugar, and when it is dissolved, place the pan again over the fire, and continue the boiling for ten minutes longer: keep the preserve well skimmed and stirred from the beginning.