[chap. IV. MODERN COOKERY. 124 sauce of this kind even than turnips; the weight of both veget- ables must be taken after they are pared. Pared turnips or artichokes, 1 lb.; fresh butter, 1J oz.; flour, 1 large teaspoonful (twice as much if all milk be used) ; salt, \ teaspoonful or more ; cream, or cream and milk mixed, from f to 1 pint. OLIVE-SAUCE. Remove the stones from some fine French or Italian olives by paring the fruit close to them, round and round in the form of a corkscrew : they will then resume their original shape when done. Weigh six ounces thus prepared, throw them into boil- ing water, let them blanch for five minutes, drain, and throw them into cold water, and leave them in it from half an hour to an hour, proportioning the time to their saltness; drain them well, and stew them gently from fifteen to twenty-five minutes in a pint of very rich brown gravy, or Espagnole (see Chapter III.) : add the juice of half a lemon, and serve the sauce very hot. Plalf this quantity will be sufficient for a small party. Olives, stoned, 6 ozs.; rich gravy, 1 pint: 15 to 25 minutes. Juice, \ lemon. Obs.—In France this sauce is served very commonly with ducks, and sometimes with beef-steaks, and stewed fowl. CELERY SAUCE. Slice the white part of from three to five heads of young tender celery; peel it if not very young, and boil it in salt and water for twenty minutes. If for white sauce, put the celery, after it has been well drained, into half a pint of veal broth or gravy, and let it stew until it is quite soft; then add an ounce and a half of butter, mixed with a dessertspoonful of flour, and a quarter-pint of thick cream, or the yolks of three eggs. The French, after boiling the celery, which they cut very small, for about twenty minutes, drain, and chop it; then put it with a slice of butter into a stewpan, and season it with pepper, salt, and nutmeg | they keep these stirred over the fire for two or three minutes, and then dredge in a dessertspoonful of flour; when this has lost its raw taste, they pour in a sufficiency of white gravy to moisten the celery, and to allow for twenty minutes’ longer boiling. A very good common celery sauce is made by simply stewing the celery, cut into inch-lengths, in butter, until it begins to be tender; and then adding a spoonful of flour, which must be allowed to brown a little, and half a