sours. CHAP. I.] 25 a dessertspoonful of strained lemon-juice are usually added two or three minutes duly before the soup is dished, that the spirit and flavour of the wine may not have time to evaporate; but it is sometimes preferred mellowed down by longer boiling. The proportion of lemon-juice may be doubled at will, but much acid is not generally liked. We can assure the reader of the excel- lence of the soup made by this receipt: it is equally palatable and delicate, and not heavy or cloying to the stomach, lie many of the elaborate compositions which bear its name. The fat, through the whole process, should be carefully skimmed otf. The ham gives far more savour, when used as we have directed, than when, even in much larger proportions, it is boiled down in the stock. Two dozens of forcemeat balls, prepared by the receipt No. 11, Chap. VI., should be slipped into the soup when it is ready for table. It is no longer customary to serve egg- balls in it. First broth shin, or neck of beef, 4 lbs.; water, 4 quarts ; carrots, 2 or 3; large mild onion, 1; celery, small head; bunch savoury herbs; mace, 1 large blade; peppercorns, i teaspoonful; cloves, 6 ; salt, 1 oz.: 5 hours or more, very gently. For stock: the broth and 3 lhs. neck or knuckle of veal (bones of head if ready) : 4 to 5 hours. Boned half-head with skin on and tongue, 1 to Id hour. Lean of undressed ham, 6 to 8 ozs. (6 if very salt); shalots, 4, or onion, 1; fresh butter, 4 ozs.; cloves, 6 ; middling sized blades of mace, 2; pepper-corns, \ teaspoonful; small sprigs of thyme, 3 or 4; minced parsley, 3 large teaspoons- ful; minced savoury and lemon-thyme mixed, 1 small teaspoonful (thin rind £ small lemon, when liked) : 1 hour. Flour, 2 ozs.: 5 minutes. Stock, full five pints; flesh of head and tongue, If to 2 lbs.: f of an hour to 1 hour (salt, if needed, to be added in hiterim). Good sherry, or Madeira, 2 wineglassesful; lemon-juice, 1 to 2 dessertspoonsful; forcemeat balls, 24. Obs. 1.—The beef, veal, bones of the head, and vegetables may be stewed down together when more convenient: it is only necessary that a really good, well-flavoured, and rather deeply- coloured stock should be prepared. A calf’s foot is always an advantageous addition to it, and the skin of-another calf’s head515 a better one still. * Country butchers, in preparing a calf’s head for sale in the ordinary way take otf the skin (or scalp), considered so essential to the excellence of this soup, and frequently throw it away; it may, therefore, often be procured from them at very slight cost, and is the best possible addition to the mock turtle. It is cleared from the head in detached portions with the hair on, but this may easily be removed after a few minutes’ scalding as from the head itself, or the feet, by the direction given in Chap. IX.