403 BAKED PUDDINGS. CHAP. XVIII.] of water and six ounces of brown sugar; when they are reduced to a smooth pulp, stir to them two ounces of butter, a table- spoonful of flour, or a handful of fine bread-crumbs, and five well-beaten eggs; grate in half a nutmeg, or flavour the pudding with pounded cinnamon, and bake it nearly three quarters of an hour. More or less of sugar will be required for these puddings, according to the time of year, as the fruit is much more acid when first gathered than when it has been some months stored. Apples, lb.; water, \ small cupful; sugar, 6 ozs.; butter, 2 ozs.; flour, 1 tablespoonful, or bread-dfumbs, 1 handful; 5 nutmeg; eggs, 5 : f hour. ESSEX PUDDING. (CHEAP AND GOOD.) Mix with a quarter of a pound of mashed potatoes, half a pound of good boiling apples minced, four ounces of brown sugar, four small eggs well beaten and strained, and a little grated lemon-peel or nutmeg. Increase the ingredients one half, and add two ounces of butter, should a larger and better pudding be desired: about half an hour will bake it. Potatoes mashed, 4 ozs.; apples, 8 ozs.; sugar, 4 ozs.; eggs, 4: l hour. DUTCH CUSTARD, OR BAKED RASPBERRY PUDDING. Lay into a tart-dish a border of puff-paste, and a pint and a half of freshly-gathered raspberries, well mixed with three ounces of sugar. Whisk thoroughly six large eggs with three ounces more of sugar, and pour it over the fruit: bake the pudding from twenty-five to thirty minutes in a moderate oven. Break the eggs one at a time into a cup, and with the point of a small three-pronged fork take off the specks or germs, be- fore they are beaten, as we have directed in page 364. Raspberries, 1 £ pint; sugar, 6 ozs.; eggs, 6: 25 to 30 minutes. gabrielle’s pudding, or sweet casserole op rice. Wash half a pound of the best whole rice, drain it on a hair- sieve, put it into a very clean stewpan or saucepan, and pour on it a quart of cold new milk. Stir them well together, and place them near the fire that the rice may swell very gradually; then let it simmer as gently as possible for about half an hour, or until it begins to be quite tender; mix with it then, two ounces of fresh butter and two and a half of pounded sugar, and let it continue to simmer softly until it is dry and perfectly