CHAP. XX.] SWEET DISHES, OR ENTREMETS. 439 1 quart; isinglass, 2| ozs.; water, 1 pint (white of egg 1 to 2 teaspoonsful) ; juice, 1 large or 2 small lemons. Obs.—The juice of any fruit mixed with sufficient sugar to sweeten, and of isinglass to stiffen it, with as much lemon-juice as will take off the insipidity of the flavour, will serve for this kind of jelly. Pine-apples, peaches, and such other fruits as do not yield much juice, must be infused in a larger quantity of syrup, which must then be used in lieu of it. In this same manner jellies are made with various kinds of wine and liqueurs, and with the ingredients for punch as well; but we cannot further multiply our receipts for them. FANCY JELLIES. To give greater tran- sparency of appearance to jelly, it is made often in a mould of this form, or a variation of it, somewhat resembling the lower com- partment of this. The space left in the centre is sometimes filled with very light, whipped cream, fla- voured and coloured so as to eat agreeably with it, and to please the eye as well: this may be taste- fully garnished with pre- served, or with fresh fruit. Italian jelly is made by half filling a mould of this, or any of more convenient shape, and laying round upon it in a chain, as soon as it is set, some blamange made rather firm, and cut of equal thickness and size with a small round cutter; the mould is then filled with the remainder of the jelly, which must be nearly cold, but not beginning to set. Brandied morella cherries, drained very dry, are sometimes dropped into moulds of pale jelly; and fruits, either fresh or preserved, are arranged in them with exceedingly good effect when skilfully managed; but this is best accomplished by having a mould for the purpose, with another of smaller size fixed in it by means of slight wires, which hook on to the edge of the outer one. By pouring water into this it may easily be detached from the jelly; the fruit is then to be placed in the space left by it, and Mould with cylinder.