MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. XVIIf. 392 brisk oven, but draw it towards the mouth when it is of a fine brown colour. Turn it from the dish before it is served, and strew sifted sugar over it or not, at pleasure : two ounces more of suet can be added when a larger proportion is liked. The pud- ding is very good without the currants. Bread-crumbs, 8 ozs.; beef-suet, 6 ozs.; pounded sugar, 3i ozs.; lemon, 1 large ; currants, 6 ozs.; eggs, 4 large, or 5 small: 1 hour, brisk oven. BAKEWELL PUDDING. This pudding is famous not only in Derbyshire, but in several of our northern counties, where it is usually served on all holiday-occasions. Line a shallow tart-dish with quite an inch- deep layer of several kinds of good preserve mixed together, and intermingle with them from two to three ounces of candied citron or orange-rind. Beat well the yolks of ten eggs, and add to them gradually half a pound of sifted sugar; when they are well mixed, pour in by degrees half a pound of good clarified butter, and a little ratifia or any other flavour that may be pre- ferred ; fill the dish two thirds full with this mixture, and bake the pudding for nearly an hour in a moderate oven. Half the quantity will be sufficient for a small dish. Mixed preserves, 1± to 2 lbs.; yolks of eggs, 10; sugar, \ lb.; butter, \ lb.; ratifia, lemon-brandy, or other flavouring to the taste: baked, moderate oven, f to 1 hour. Obs.—This is a rich and expensive, but not a very refined pudding. A variation of it, known in the south as an Alder- man’s Budding is, we think, superior to it. It is made without the candied peel, and with a layer of apricot-jam only, six ounces of butter, six of sugar, the yolks of six, and the whites of two eggs. RATIEIA PUDDING. Flavour a pint and a half of new milk rather highly -with bitter almonds, blanched and bruised, or, should their use be objected to, with three or four bay leaves and a little cinnamon; add a few grains of salt, and from four to six ounces of sugar in lumps, according to the taste. When the whole has simmered gently for some minutes, strain off the milk through a fine sieve or muslin, put it into a clean saucepan, and when it again boils stir it gradually and quickly to six well-beaten eggs which have been likewise strained ; let the mixture cool, and then add to it a glass of brandy. Lay a half-paste round a well-buttered dish, and sprinkle into it an ounce of ratifias finely crumbled,