315 VEGETABLES. CHAP. XV.] object to the flavour of the knife, which they fancy this mode imparts, break them small instead. Young celery alone, sliced and dressed with a rich salad mixture (see page 111) is excel- lent : it is still in some families served thus always with roast pheasants. Beet-root, baked or boiled, blanched endive, small salad- herbs which are easily raised at any time of the year, celery, and hardy lettuces, with any ready-dressed vegetable will supply salads through the winter. Cucumber vinegar is an agreeable addition to these. FRENCH SALAD. In winter this is made principally of beautifully-blanched endive, washed delicately clean and broken into small branches with the fingers, then taken from the water and shaken dry in a basket kept for the purpose, or in a fine cloth; then arranged in the salad-bowl, and strewed with herbs (tarragon generally, when in season) minced small: the dressing is not added until just before the salad is eaten. In summer, young lettuces are substituted for the endive, and intermixed with a va- riety of herbs, some of which are not generally cultivated in England. SUFFOLK SALAD. Fill a salad-bowl from half to three parts full with very tender lettuces shred small, minced lean of ham, and hard- boiled eggs, or their yolks only, also minced, placed in alternate layers; dress the mixture with English salad-sauce, but do not pour it into the bowl until the instant of serving. A portion of cold chicken, cut in thin slices about the size of a shilling, may be added when convenient. YORKSHIRE PLOUGHMAN^ SALAD. Mix treacle and vinegar, in the proportion of one tablespoon- ful of the first to two of the latter; add a little black pepper, and eat the sauce with lettuces shred small (with an . ermix- ture of young onions when they are liked). This, though cer- tainly not a very refined order of salad, is scarcely so unpalat- able as such ingredients would seem to promise. DES CERNEAUX, OR WALNUT SALAD. This is a common summer salad in France, where there is generally an abundant growth of walnuts, though it is not, we believe, much served in England. Take the fruit when a pin will pierce it easily, and pare it down to the kernel; put it into