CHAP. XVIII.] BAKED PUDDINGS. 405 little clarified butter poured on the top, and sugar sifted over. Candied peel may be added to it with good effect; and three or four bitter almonds pounded, may be used to give it flavour instead of lemon-rind. SMALL COCOA-NUT PUDDINGS. Melt together over a slow fire two ounces of fresh butter cut small, and four of pounded sugar; pour them out when they have boiled for a couple of minutes, and let them cool; mix with them two ounces of finely-grated cocoa-nut, an ounce of citron shred small, the grated rind of half a large lemon, and four eggs : when these have been well beaten together, add the strained juice of the half lemon; put the mixture into buttered pattypans, or pudding-cups, sift sugar over, and bake them half an hour in a moderate oven. This is an excellent and a perfectly new receipt; but in making use of it care should be taken to ascertain that the nnt be fresh and sweet flavoured, as the slightest degree of rancidity will spoil the puddings. They are better hot than cold, though very good either way. Fresh butter, 2 ozs.; pounded sugar, \ lb.; cocoa-nut, 2 ozs.; candied citron, 1 oz.; rind and juice of \ lemon; eggs, 4 : \ hour. Obs.—The same ingredients may be made into one pudding only, and longer baked. GOOD YORKSHIRE PUDDING. To make a very good and light Yorkshire pudding, take an equal number of eggs and of heaped tablespoonsfuls of flour, with a teaspoonful of salt to six of these. Whisk the eggs well, strain, and mix them gradually with the flour, then pour in by degrees as much new milk as will reduce the batter to the con- sistency of rather thin cream. The tin which is to receive the pudding must have been placed for some time previously under a joint that has been put down to roast: one of beef is usually preferred. Beat the batter briskly and lightly the instant before it is poured into the pan, watch it carefully that it may not burn, and let the edges have an equal share of the fire. When the pudding is quite firm in every part, and well- coloured on the surface, turn it to brown the under side. This is best accomplished by first dividing it into quarters. In Yorkshire it is Made much thinner than in the south, roasted generally at an enormous fire, and not turned at all: currants there are sometimes added to it. Eggs, 6 ; flour, 6 heaped tablespoonsful, or from 7 to 8 ozs.; milk, nearly or quite, 1 pint; salt, 1 teaspoonful: 2 hours.