CHAP. I.] 23 SOUPS. Almonds, 6 ozs.; breasts of chickens or partridges, 6 ozs.; soaked bread, 3 ozs.; veal stock, 2 quarts ; cream, 1 pint. Obs.—Some persons pound the yolks of four or five hard- boiled eggs with the almonds, meat, and bread for this white soup; French cooks beat smoothly with them an ounce or two of whole rice, previously boiled from fifteen to twenty minutes. Obs.—A good plain white soup may be made simply by adding to a couple of quarts of pale veal stock or strong well flavoured veal broth, a thickening of arrow-root, and from half to three quarters of a pint of cream. Four ounces of maccaroni boiled tender and well drained may be slipped into it a minute or two before it is dished, but the thickening may then be dimi- nished a little. MOCK TURTLE SOUP. To make a single tureen of this favourite English soup in ths most economical manner, when there is no stock at hand, stew gently down in a gallon of water four pounds of the fleshy part of the shin of beef, or of the neck, if more convenient, with two or three carrots, one onion, a small head of celery, a bunch of savoury herbs, a blade of mace, a half-teaspoonful of pepper- corns, and an ounce of salt. When the meat is quite in frag- ments, strain off the broth, and pour it when cold upon three pounds of the knuckle, or of the neck of veal; simmer this until the flesh has quite fallen from the bones, but be careful to stew it as softly as possible, or the quantity of stock will be so much reduced as to be insutficient for the soup. Next, take the half of a fine calf’s head with the skin on, remove the brains, and and then bone it* entirely, or let the butcher be requested to do this, and to return the bones with it: these, when there is time, may be stewed with the veal, to enrich the stock, or boiled after- wards with the head and tongue. Strain the soup through a hair-sieve into a clean pan, and let it drain closely from the meat. When it is nearly or quite cold, clear off all the fat from, it; roll the head lightly round, leaving the tongue inside, or taking it out as is most convenient, secure it with tape or twine, pour the soup over, and bring it gently to boil upon a moderate fire; keep it well skimmed, and simmer it from an hour to an hour and a quarter; then lift the head into a deep pan or tureen, * This is so simple and easy a process, that the cook may readily accomplish, it with very little attention. Let her only work the knife close to the bone always, so as to take the flesh clean from it, instead of leaving large fragments on. The jaw-bone may first be removed, and the flesh turned back from the edge of the other.