287 CHAP. XIV.] CURRIES, POTTED MEATS, &C. dishes, we are told, with infinite ingenuity, blending in them very agreeably many condiments of different flavour, until the highest degree of piquancy and savour is produced, the whole being tempered with fine vegetable acids. With us, turmeric and cayenne pepper prevail in them often far too powerfully: the prodigal use of the former should be especially avoided, as it injures both the quality and the colour of the currie, which ought to be of a dark green, rather than of a red or yellow hue. The first is given by the genuine powder imported from India; the others, by the greater number of spurious ones, sold in England, under its name. A couple of ounces of a sweet, sound cocoa-nut, lightly grated and stewed for nearly or quite an hour in the gravy of a currie, is a great improvement to its flavour: it will be found particularly agreeable with that of sweetbreads, and may be served in the currie, or strained from it at pleasure. Great care, however, should be taken not to use, for the pur- pose, a nut that is rancid. Spinage, cucumbers, vegetable marrow, tomatas, acid apples, green gooseberries (seeded), and tamarinds imported in the shell—not preserved—may all, in their season, be added, with very good effect, to curries of different kinds. Potatoes and celery are also occasionally boiled down in them. The rice for a currie should always be sent to table in a separate dish from it, and, in serving them, it should be first helped, and the currie laid upon it. MR. ARNOTT’s CURRIE-POWDER. Turmeric, eight ounces.* Coriander seed, four ounces. Cummin seed, two ounces. Fcenugreek seed, two ounces. Cayenne, half an ounce. (More or less of this last to the taste.) Let the seeds be of the finest quality. Dry them well, pound, and sift them separately through a lawn sieve, then weigh, and mix them in the above proportions. This is an exceedingly agreeable and aromatic powder, when all the ingre- dients are perfectly fresh and good, but the preparing it is rather a troublesome process. Mr. Arnott recommends that when it is considered so, a “high-caste” chemist should be applied to for it. The Messieurs Corbyn and Co., 300, High Holborn, * We think it would be an improvement to diminish by two ounces the pro- portion of turmeric, and to increase that of the coriander seed; but we have not tried it.