SOUPS. IT CIIAP. I.] COCOA-NUT SOUP. Pare the dark rind from a very fresh cocoa-nut, and grate it fine on an exceedingly clean, bright grater; weigh it, and allow two ounces for each quart of soup. Simmer it gently for one hour in the stock, which should then be strained and thickened for table. This nut imparts a remarkably fine flavour to any kind of soup or broth, and it is considerably heightened by browning it with a morsel of fresh butter to a fine amber- colour, in a thick stewpan or saucepan, over a slow fire, before the soup is poured to it. It must be stirred constantly, and the greatest care should be taken that no single particle be burned. An ounce of butter will be sufficient for a quarter-pound of the nut, which should be added as soon as the butter is just dissolved. Veal stock, gravy-soup, or broth, 5 pints; grated cocoa-nut, 5 ozs.: 1 hour. Flour of rice, 5 ozs.; mace, J teaspoonful; little cayenne and salt; mixed with £ pint cream, if at hand: 10 minutes. \ For brown soup: butter, oz.; cocoa-nut, 5 ozs.: 5 to 10 minutes. Gravy-soup, or good beef-broth, 5 pints: 1 hour. Kice flour, 5 ozs.; soy and lemon-juice, each 1 tablespoonful; sugar pounded fine, 1 oz. ; cayemie, teaspoonful; sherry, 2 glasses. Obs.—When either cream or wine is objected to for these soups, a half-pint of the stock should be reserved to mix the thickening with. CHESTNUT SOUP. Strip the outer rind from some fine, sound Spanish chestnuts, throw them into a large pan of warm water, and as soon as it becomes too hot for the fingers to remain in it, take it from the fire, lift out the chestnuts, peel them quickly, and throw them into cold water as they are done ; wipe, and weigh them ; take three quarters of a pound for each quart of soup, cover them with good gravy-stock, and stew them gently for upwards of three quarters of an hour, or until they break when touched with a fork ; drain, and pound them smoothly, or bruise them to a mash with a strong spoon, and press them through a fine sieve reversed; mix with them by slow degrees, the proper quantity of stock, add sufficient mace, cayenne, and salt, to season the soup, and stir it often until it boils. Three quarters of a pint of rich cream will greatly improve it. The stock in c