578 APPENDIX. CALEBS LIVER STOVED, OR STEWED. From three to four pounds of the best part of the liver will be sufficient for a dish of moderate size. First lard it quite through by the directions of page 166, with large lardoons, rolled in a seasoning of spice, and of savoury herbs very finely minced; then lay it into a stewpan or saucepan just fitted to its eize, and pour in about half a pint of broth or gravy; heat it very gently, and throw in, when it begins to simmer, a sliced carrot, a small onion cut in two, a small bunch of parsley, and a blade of mace; stew the liver as softly as possible over a very slow fire from two hours and a half to three hours; thicken the gravy with a little brown roux (see page 96), or with a dessert- spoonful of browned flour; add a couple of glasses of white wine, and a little spice if needed, and serve it very hot, after having taken out the herbs and vegetables. The liver may be stewed without being larded; it may like- wise be browned all over in a carefully made roux, before the gravy is poured to it: this must then be made to boil, and be added in small portions, the stewpan being well shaken round as each is thrown in. The wine can be altogether omitted ; or a wineglassful of port, mixed with a little lemon-juice, may take the place of sherry. After the liver has been wiped very dry, minced herbs may be strewed thickly over it before it is laid into the stewpan; and it may be served in its own gravy, or with a sauce piquante. Liver, 3 to 4 lbs.: 2 to 3 hours. SUGAR-GLAZINGS, AND ICINGS, (For Fine Pastry and Cakes.) The clear glazing which resembles barley sugar, and which requires to be as carefully guarded from damp, is given by just dipping the surface of the pastry into liquid caramel (see page 553) ; or by sifting sugar thickly over it directly it is drawn from the oven, and melting it down with a salamander, or red- hot shovel held closely over it; or by setting it again into an oven sufficiently heated to dissolve the sugar; though this latter method is not so well, as there is danger from it of the crust being scorched. To make a fine white or coloured icing, whisk, as directed at page 514, the whites of a couple of fresh eggs to a solid froth, then, with a wooden spoon or spatula, mix gradually with them eight ounces of the best sugar, which has been dried, and sifted through a fine sieve; work them together for a