THE PYTCHLEY COOKERY BOOK. 2l6 PREPARATION FOR FILLING PATE CHAUDE CASES. No. 384. Fillet chicken, rabbit, hares, pheasants, pigeons, larks, 01 quails, cut off the wing-bones in game or poultry, and the second joint in legs pf hares or rabbits ; put fillets of either of the above, or mixed, into a saute pan with two or three ounces of butter and fry until lightly coloured ; take out the fillets and put them in a fresh stewpan with a pint of reduced Consommfi (No. 1), a dozen mushrooms sliced, a dozen sliced truffles, pepper and salt, and a wine-glass of sherry, and let the whole stew for half an hour or more; when getting cool arrange the fillets in the case, made as in (No. 367), and leave a space in the centre, fill with the mushrooms and truffles, and pour the stock in which the fillets were stewed over the fillets and fill up with aspic jelly. GALANTINES. No. 385. Bone a chicken, turkey, or pheasant, and lay it on a table with the inside uppermost; cut the meat from the thick parts and distribute it equally all over the inside, pepper and salt; make some farci meat with veal, or better still with chicken, turkey, or pheasant, as in No. 80; lay a layer of this over the meat of the bird, then a layer of sliced beef and tongue, then a layer of meat which must be sliced from another bird of the same sort of which the galantine is made, then a layer of sliced truffles, then farci meat, then tongue, then truffles, then sliced meat, and lastly, farci meat; roll it up and fasten it securely with string, tie it then up in a well-buttered cloth, put it in a stewpan with two onions and two carrots sliced, a small stick of celery, a bough or two of parsley, a dozen pepper- corns, an ounce of salt, and sufficient White Stock (No. 3) to cover it; let it simmer gently for three hours, strain and let it get nearly cold, take off the cloth and wring out the water; put the galantine in the cloth again, tie it up securely and place it in a dish with the fat from the stock on it, and on