INTRODUCTION. j bumpers of champagne to wash down, and of which only one half-glass well frothed is- generally doled out. Think, reader, think of all these discomforts, and if the Author can remedy them, he will feel amply repaid ; and in case you have the misfortune to have a cook who will not learn, he has thought it better to tell you where you can buy really excellent soups, and gravies, at no greater expense than you can make them at home. The Author proposes to treat on small dinners of taste within the compass of ordinary mortals ; he trusts that the “Bills of Fare” may save trouble to thousands of fair young ladies who have recently entered on the cares of housekeeping, to whom the ordering of dinner is a novelty and a nuisance, and to busy and sporting bachelors whose chief thought is the eating, and not the ordering of the repast. The Author implores his readers who have not a large establishment, if they wish to consult the comfort of them- selves and guests, to limit the number of guests to six or eight. The Bills of Fare are made out with the strictest economy consistent with refined and delicate cookery, and the proportions of the Receipts given are sufficient for six people, so that any cook can curtail the proportions if less is required, and add if more is wanted. A series of “Blunting Menu Cards” by Mr. Edward Kennard, an old resident and forward rider in the Pytchley country, has just been shown to the Author, who can highly recommend them as a decoration for the table. He particularly draws attention to his “ Consomme,” 4 which is really excellent. He knows some prejudice exists against using “ Extract of Meat; ” but he hopes any one who buys this book will try it: they will find that it will greatly reduce, if not entirely dispense with “ the butcher’s greatest friend/’ but the master’s most expensive luxury, the “stockpot.” Ble begs to impress on his readers the economy of fish entries; they are much more easily cooked and served, and half the quantity suffices. Who has not B 2