259 WINES AND THEIR SERVICE. properly decanted, and I would most strongly advise every one who has really good old wine to obtain wine baskets, and a “ decanting machine with screw movement on wood block ” and a lever corkscrew from Farrow & Jackson in the Haymarket, and having obtained them proceed as follows : Put as many bottles as are likely to be consumed in the decanting baskets, taking great care that the side on which they lay in the bin is down- wards. Place the bottle which is to be decanted very steadily into the decanting machine, draw the cork without the slightest jerk or movement, and with a damp cloth wipe the mouth of the bottle. Place a light either under or by the side of the bottie so that you can see the moment the slightest cloud appears ; screw the lever very gradually until three parts of the bottle is decanted, when remove the decanter, and decant the remainder into wine-glasses; so long as no cloud appears and the wine is quite fine, add the wine-glasses to the bottle, the moment the cloud appears add no more—half a glass will spoil the whole bottle. How often we hear, “ This is an excellent bottle,” and the next not quite the same, especially in Claret; the real truth being that the ignorant or the careless servant, or still more ignorant or obstinate host, has jumbled the whole thing up, and spoilt in five minutes wine which has been taken the greatest care of for twenty years. No ; unless you have a careful and trustworthy servant, decant your own wine, and by the above method, and you will find that your bottles will be, with very few exceptions, all alike. I remember hearing a story of a noble lord, well known for his unadorned Saxon, complaining to his old house steward that he always sent up the Claret thick. I he steward replied that he always sent up the whole bottle, as if he had not, he thought his lordship would complain. The reply he received was, “ In future, then, don't send up the whole bottle, you fool! ” The order was strictly obeyed, and only three parts of a bottle in future appeared, but his friends always said that the “ fool,” as he was so politely called, kept back the two jirst and not the two last glasses for his own consumption.