Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21461818_0002THE CHIRURGICAL WORKS O F P E R C I L L POrr, RR.S. SURGEON TO ST. BARTHOLOMEW'S HOSPITAL. A NEfV EDITION, WITH HIS LAST CORRECTIONS. TO WHICH ABE ADDEO A Short Account of the Life of the Author, A METHOD OF CURING THE HYDROCELE by INJECTION, AND OCCASIONAL NOTES and OBSERVATIONS. By JAMES EJKLE, Efq. SURGEON EXTRAORDINARY TO HIS MAJESTY's HOUSEHOLD, AND SURGEON TO ST. BARTHOLOMEW'S HOSPITAL, - IN THREE FO M E S.. VOL. II. A certU fotius et cxplorath fetenium cjfe preefidlum; M eft, hh qua: Expmemmln ipfts curationlbus docuerit; ficut in ceteris omnibus artiius: nam ne Agncolam quidcm mt Gubernatorem Dijputatme, Jed Ufu fieri, A. CoXN. CSLSUS, LONDON: FRINTED FOR J. JOHNSON, G. G. J. AND J. ROBINSON, T. CADELL, J. MURRAY, W. FOX, J. BEW, S. HAYES, AND W. LOWNDES. M DCC XC.e 1CONTE NTS 0 F VOL. II, Treailfe on Ruptures ^ q ^hofe capable of eafy and immediate ReduSiian — 46 Tho/e that are found irreducible^ but nqt in a Sate of /«- flammation ^2 thofe -which are reducible, but attended with Pain and Hazard — —. 5^ Tho/e which are in fuch a State as to be irreducible by the mere Hand, and in which a Chirurgical Operation is necefaryfor the Pre/ervation of the Life of the Patient 78 Parts compofing a Rupture, when fo difeafed as to be unfit for immediate Redu^ion^ whc^t then becomes neceffary III Ruptures in Females —, ^ ,29 the crural or femoral Hernia — —. The congenial Hernia — ^ ^ j The umbilical Rupture —. _ The ventral Hernia^ l£c. —. —. . ,, Attempts toward a radical Cure — — 1^5 ATreatifi on the Hydrocele, or watery Rupture, and other Difeafes of the Testicle, its Coats andVeffeU 171 DiJlinSlioniv CONTENTS. Page DiflinBion between true and falfe Hernia — 175 Of the Hydrocele in general —■ 17^ Jnatomical StruSiure of the Parts concerned — 186 Jnafarcous Tumor of the Scrotum — — 207 Dijliniiion of the three Sorts of Hydrocele of the Cells of the Tunica Communis -r- — 223 Tl^e encyfled Hydrocele of the Tunica Communis — 244 Hydrocele of the Tunica Vaginalis Tejlis — 262 ' Method of palliative-Cure of the Hydrocele of the Tunica Vaginalis Tefl'u — ' . — 297 Means fgr a radical Cure of - the Hydrocele of. the Tunica Vaginalis — ■ — •— 311 The Hamatocek\-or Tumor from Blood —■ 344 Hydrocele in 'the Sac of a Hernia — —' 374 The Pneumatocele^ Varicocele., Clrcoc^le^ the Sarcocele^ and the Hydro-farcocele -— — — 38 r The Sarcoeeki or difcafed Ttflicle — — 388 A TREATISEI A T R E A T I S E O N RUPTURES. Vol. II. BP R E F A C E. The difeafe ivhich makes the fubje£l of the following traft, is one in which mankind are, on many accounts, much interefted; no age, fex, rank, or condition of life, ,is exempt from it; the rich, the poor, the lazy, and the labo- rious, are equally liable to it; it produces certain incon- venience to all who are afflidted by it; it fometimes puts the life of the patient in fuch hazard, as to require one of the moft delicate operations in furgery; and it has in all times, from the moft ancient, down to the prefent, ren- dered thofe who labour under it fubjedt to the moft ini- quitous frauds and impofitions. The generality of mankind look upon a rupture as an imperfeaion in their form, as a difeafe which impairs their ftrength, and le/Tens their generative faculty: which appre- henfions, though abfolutely groundlefs, are fo firmly rooted, in the majority of thofe who are affliaed with the diforder, as to make them not a little miferable. They who lie in wait to avail themfelves of the weaknelTes of the infirm and fearful, are well acquainted with thefe fears, and very lucra- tive- ufe do they make of them; they well know, that the man who regards his diforder as an imperfeaion in his form, or as a caufe of any debility, more particularly a venereal one, will be very unwilling to have it known, and as glad to get rid of it, at any cxpence or trouble ; by this means thefe impoftors are furniflied with opportunities of fubjea- ing the ignorant, and credulous, to tedious confinements, painful applications, and even hazardous operations; and of defrauding the timorous and bafhful of large fums of mo- ney, for imaginary difeafes, and pretended cures. B z Complaints'4 PREFACE Complaints of this fort, coming from the profelTion, are generally ill received; and, being fet to the account of preju- dice, intereft, and craft, are very little regarded; but in this mankind do us great injuftice. A rupture is a difeafe, .which, if judicioufly and honeftly treated from the firft, can never be productive of much profit to a furgeon; it requires very little attendance, and neither external application, nor internal medicine; though the reduftion of the gut, and the application of a proper bandage, are neceflfary, yet this is in general fo foon, and fo eafily accomplifhed, that it muft be obvious that no great emolument can front thence be de- rived ; and therefore, If the profeffion may be allowed to be impartial in any thing which relates to themfelves, I think they may in this, from which they never can^reap confider- able profit, unlefs the difeafe has been greatly neglefted, or ill-treated : it is from fraud and delufion principally that fuch advantage can be derived ; it is from the patient's igno- rance of the true nature of his diforder, and from bold and lying promifes made of a perfe£l cure. It is far from my intention to defend the body of furgeons from any accufation which may juftly be brought againft them; but as the reafon given by moft of the patrons of quackery for their fupportirtg it, is, that the medical world, through mere obftinacy, never depart from the cuftoms of their anceftors, nor attempt any thing new, though man- kind might be much benefited by fuch inventions j and as I think that fuch imputation cannot with any colour of juftice ■ be made againft us, I would beg leave to be indulged a few words on this fubjeit. "That the merit of many of the old pra^itioners was crreat; that they left behind them many proofs both of their fagacity, and their dexterity; that we have received large information from their writings; and that, ceteris parihtis^TO TREATISE ON RUPTITRES. 5 who is beft acquainted witli them will be the beft fur- geon, is well known to every one who is at all converfant Wit^ them, and can be denied only by thofe who are not. But, on the other hand, it muft alfo be allowed, that both their theory and their practice laboured under great difad- vantages, which rendered their judgment of many difeafes erroneous, and their treatment of them irrational and unfuc- cefsful. The very imperfeft ftate of their anatomy was one great fource of error; which kind of knowledge has been fo cul- tivated in our times as to convert ignorance into a vice, and to render thofe who are deficient in it perfectly inex- cufable. As this is the only true and folid bafis from which all cHT- rurgical knowledge muft for ever fpring, fo it has of late years been produ£tive of many real and great improvements in the art. The ancient furgery was coarfe, and loaded with a far- rago of external applications, fome of which were horridly, and yet unneceiTarily painful, and others altogether ufelefs ; whilft the operative part of the art was encumbered with a multitude of aukward unmanageable inftruments, and pieces of machinery. The pradlitioners of the prefent time have brought the pradtice into a much narrower compafs, have rendered it lefs painful and more intelligible; they have reduced the number of inftruments, and by the extreme fimplicity of thofe which they now ufe, they have confiderably aflifted the dexterity of an operator, and fhortened the time of an operation ; they have almoft thrown afide the burning cau- tery, and are much more fparing in the ufe of cauftic appli- cations than their predeceflbrs ufed to be; they now accom- plifti many cures by mild and gentle-means, which formerly B ^ were6 PREFACE were thought not obtainable but by much feverlty ! to fay nothing of the indelible marks which fuch prailice left be- hind it. The havock formerly made both of limbs and lives, by the ufe of long forceps in gun-fhot wounds ; the explofion of the long-prevailing notion that fuch wounds were poifonous ; the eafy fuperficial method in which they are now in general treated, and the opportunities which fuch treatment gives for nature to exert thofe powers with which - the Almighty Author has furniflied her, do credit to the modern practitioners : the double incifion in amputations ; the prefent method of removing cancerous breafts, and en- Cyfted tumours; the lateral operation for the ftone in the bladder; the ufe of the cutting gorget; amputation in the joint of the fhoulder ; the prefent method of letting out all the water at once from an afcites; the improvements in the treatment of the fiftula lachrymalis; the> cure of the vari and valgi, with many others which might b.e named ; in fliort, the fuperior neatnefs, eafe, and expedition of the prefent furgcry, when compared to the ancient, are certain and undoubted improvements made by the modern prac- titioners,. and fuch as mankind are much benefited by, as their pains are thereby leffened, the elegance of their figure preferved, and the time of their confinement ihortened j all which will, I prefume, be allowed to be advantages, while human nature (hall remain fenfible of pain, while fears fhall be thought deformities,, or confinement be deemed irldbme. Nor is our conduft, with regard to the particular difeafo which makes the fubjea of the following traft, in the leaft degree blameable ; fo far from it, that the treatment which we meet with fometimes is moft fingularly unjuft, we being often feverely cenfured for that from which we ought to derive praife : fo little do we deferve the refleaion caft upon us,TO TREATISE ON RUPTURES. 7 Yis, of being content with what our fathers taught us, and neither improving the art ourfelves, nor encouraging thofe who do ; that, on the contrary, much pains have been taken to improve this particular part of furgery, and the public ought to thank us for not perTevering in the ufe of the old, tedious, painful, and hazardous proccffes, after we found them to be in general ineffeflual. But though I would at all times vindicate the profeflion from every unjufl: attack, I would by no means be fuppofed to think that there is not large room left for the induftry both of us and our fucceflbrs ; fome of the operative parts of the art are ftill capable of improvement, and the treatment of fome difeafes might certainly be altered for the better. Whether our future labours fliall be crowned with fuccefs or not, fWl I think it will appear to every one at all verfed in the hiftory of furgery, that the praftitioners of the prefent time are fo far from deferving the chara£ler v/hich they who know nothing of the art have given of them, that they really deferve a very contrary one; fmce, inftead of obftinatcly adhering to the practice of their anceftors, they have dif- fered from it in many inftances, where they found they could do it with fafety, and to the advantage of mankind ; and have endeavoured to advance the utility of their profef- fion, by the only means whereby it is capable of being im-^ proved, viz. by a fedulous application to anatomy, by the frequent examinations of dead morbid bodies, and by making fuch experiments on the living, as they had juft reafon to think would prove beneficial; candidly acknowledging, at the fame time, where they have found their art infufEcient, and not perfifting in tormenting their fellow-creatures merely for gain. In the following treatife I have endeavoured to exprefs myfelf in as plain, explicit, and intelligible a manner as I B 4 amS PREFACE, &c. iam able, and the fubjedt will admit; being defirous as muG^l as I can to inform mankind of the true nature of the dif- cafe, of the danger they incur, and the frauds they are liable to, from the ignorance of one fet of quacks, and the worfe qualities of another: to fliow what the art of furgery in judicious hands is capable of doing, and how eflentially the conducl of an impoftor differs from that of an honeft man, who will never be alhamed of confefTing that he cannot do what is not in his power. In the firft edition of this book were many faults ; fome of the prefs, fome of the author ; in this fome pains have been taken to lellen both : of typographical errors very few, if any, will, I hope, be found; and wherever it has ap- peared to me that the matter of the treatife was obfcure, erroneous, or deficient, I have altered, corredled, and added to it. I am flill far from thinking that it is perfe£t or faultlefs ; but, on the other hand, I am not confcious of having ad- vanced any thing in it which is not ftliiSlly true, and agree- able to the moft fuccefsful pradlice : improvement of the art of furgery, and the relief of mankind, are my two principal objeds; and if what I have nowj or at any other time writ- ten, fhall be found to have contributed toward accomplifliing either of thofe ends, I hope the reader will excufe all thofc lefler faults, qms aut incuria fudit^ Aut himiana parim cavit natura^ A TREATISEifG( 9 ] A TREATISE, &c. SECTION I. By tiie term Rupture, Descent, or Hernia, is in general meant a fwelling pro- duced by the falling down or protrufion of fome part or parts, which ought naturally to be contained within the cavity of the belly. The places in which-thefe fwellings make their appearance, in order to form what is called a Rupture, are the groin, the navel, the labia pudendi, the upper and fore part of the thigh, and every point of the anterior part of the abdomen. The parts, which by being thruft forth from the cavity in which they ©ught natu- rally to remain, form thefe tumors, arc a por- tion of the omentum, a part of the inteflinal canal, and *fometimes (though very rarely) the ftomach. * The liver, fpleen, uterus, bladder, &c. have at difFerent times been found in different hernia, but thefe are fo rare as not to come within a general defcription. From10 A TREATISE From thefe two circumftances, of rituatioii^ and contents, are derived all the difFerent ap- pellations by which herniae are diftinguifhed : for. example, they are CdWtd^ mguinal, fcrotal, femoral, umbilical, and ventral, as they happen to make their appearance in the groin, cod, thigh, navel, or belly. If a portion of inteftine only forms it, it is called enterocele, hernia in- tefiinalis, or gut-rupture; if a piece of omen- tum only, epiplocek, hernia omentalis, or caul- rupture ; and if both inteftine and omentum contribute mutually to the formation of the tumor, it is called entero-epiplocele, or com- pound rupture. If the piece of gut or caul defcends no lov^er than the groin, it is faid to be incomplete, and is called bubonocele'; if the fcrotum be occupied by either of them, the rupture is faid to be complete, and bears the name of ofcheocele: the latter ufed by our forefathers to be attributed to laceration of the peritoneum, the former to its dilatation merely. The opinion, that the fcrotal hernia is occa- fioned by a forcible divifion,, or breach made in the peritoneum, has always been, and ftiU is, with the unknowing, a very prevaihng one, thsugh without any foundation in truth; bothON RUPTURES. 11 the fcrotal, and femoral, pafs out from the ab- domen by openings which are natural to every human body j as well thofe who have not rup- tures, as thofe who have. The former, that is the fcrotal, defcend by means of an aperture in the. tendon of the external oblique mufcle, near the groin; defigned for the paflage of the fpermatic veflels in men, and the ligamenta uteri in women ; and the latter, under the hol- low made by Poupart's, or Fallopius's liga- ment, at the upper part of the thigh, along with the great crural vein and artery. The pair of mufcles called obliqui externi afcendentes, cover all that part of the belly which is without bone, and the lower and an- terior parts of the thorax. They are flefliy on the iides, and tendinous in the middle, and ' lower part; they fpring from the feventh and eighth ribs, and from all below them, by flefhy portions, which indigitate with correfponding parts of two other mufcles, called the ferratus major anticus, and the latiflimus dorfi, and be- coming tendinous, are inferted into what is called the hnea alba, the fpine of the os ihum, and into the os pubis. At the lower part of the belly, on each fide, a little above the' laft-mentioned bonfe, the18 A TREATISE the fibres of the tendon of this mufcle fcparat« from each other, and form thereby two aper- tures, through which pafs the fpermatic vef- fels in men, and the ligamenta uteri in wo- men. Thefe openings are of an oval figure, and have an obUque diredion from above downward; the upper part of them is rather wider than the lower, and they are of larger, fize in men than in women.** The tendinous fibres of this 1,-nufcle, as they proceed from its flefhy part obhquely down- ward, have.feveral fmall apertures for the paf- fage of veflels and nerves; and at their infer- tion into the os pubis, they crofs one another, and are as it were interwoven, by which means their infertion is ftrengthened, and their attachment made firmer. . What is called by the particular name of Poupart's ligament is really nothing more than the lower border of this tendon, ftretched from the fore part of the os ilium, or haunch 6 A detachment of fibres from the fafda lata of the thigh is generally united with the tendon compofing the aperture in the obliquus externus, which mixture or connexion of fibres will itl fome meafure account for the pain which they who labour un- der ftrangulated ruptures feel upon ftanding upright, and the relief which bending the thigh upward toward the belly always cives them. bone,ON RUPTURES. bone, to the os pubis, and turned or folded inward at its interior edge. The other miifcles of the belly are the ob- . liquiis interniis, the tranfverfalis, the re£tus, ' and the pyramidalis, none of which have any concern with our prefent fubjed. The fper- matic chord does indeed pafs under the lower edge or border of the two firft of thefe, but at fuch a diftance, and in fuch manner, that no adlion of thefe mufcles can any way afFedl, or ever make any ftri6:ure either on it, or on a hernia accompanying it; they have no perfo- rations, or apertures, though fo many writers of credit (even late ones) have both defcribed and delineated them% confequently they can have 5 However incredible and ftrange It may feem, yet T am con- vinced, that operations have been performed by the information obtained from books only, without any previous anatomical knowledge, any praftlce on dead bodies, and barely any, if any, opportunities of feeing fuch operations performed'by others on the living: how grofsly mull fuch an operator be de- ceived by the account of the rings, as they are ufually, though abfurdly called, of the abdominal mufcles: after he has divided the firft, or that of the external oblique, he will expeft to find a fecond in the internal, and a third in the tranfverfalis, and will never fuppofe that he is got into the cavity of the belly, till he has divided all the three: it is therefore of the utmoft confe- quence that this matter'be fet right, and that, notwithftanding What ha? been faid on this fubjcd by writers of great eminence, every14 A TREATISE have no lhare in the embarraffment of the parts contained in a hernial fac, nor require any divilion in that operation, which becomes fometimes neceffary towards fetting them free: which is a fa6t of no fmall confequence to an operator. The infide of thefe mufcles, and indeed the whole cavity of the belly, is lined with a fmooth, firm, but eafily dilatable membrane, called the peritoneum, a minute account of which would lead me befide my prefent pur- pofe, and therefore I iliall only obferve, that it lines the whole abdomen, and gives an ex- ternal coat to every vifcus contained in it. Behind the peritoneum lies a loofe, cellular membrane, by fome called its appendix, which is found in different quantity in different places. ' In fome the cells are empty, and are immedi- ately yifible upon being blown into ; in other parts it is plentifully flocked with fat, and, every furgeon be informed that the external oblique mufcle is the only one which has any opening in it; that the defcriptioii given by Mr. Chefelden of thefe mufcles, in the laft edition of liis anatomy, is erroneous; and all defcriptions and all deli- neations (fome of which are to be found even in later writers) of more openings than that fingle one on each fide, are not re- prefentations of nature, but are the images of a luxuriant fancy, and have no foundation in truth. thoughON RUPTURES. I r though fomewhat varied in its appearance in different places, is found in moil: parts of the body. This cellular membrane, void of fat, fur- rounding the fpermatic velTels, as they pafs forth from the cavity of the abdomen into the groin, is called the tunica vaginalis of the chord, or tunica communis vaforum fpermati- corum; which chord, thus enveloped, paffing ■under the inferior edge or border of the tranf- verfalis, and internal oblique mufcles, and through the perforations or natural apertures of the external oblique, defcends through the groin to the tefticle, in fuch manner, that the fpermatic veflels in their pafTage from the cavity are really and truly behind the, perito- neum. The tunica vaginalis teftis is a membrane perfedlly diftin6l from this, forming a parti- .cular cavity which includes the glandular fub- ftance of the tefticle, and has nothing to do with a common rupture. In every foetus, until, or very near until the time of birth, there is an open and free communication be- tween the cavity of this laft tunic, and that of the belly, for the paflage of the tefticle from the abdomen into the fcrotum: foon after birthl5 A TREATISE birth this paflage clofes and becomes imper^. vious; nor is there ever after the time of fuch clofing, any communication between the ca- vity of the belly, and that of the tunica vagi- nalis teftis. But though the paflage remains iiv general for ever fhut, yet the place where its orifice, or mouth, was, may always be known by a kind of cicatricula, much like to what appears within the abdomen, oppofite to the navel, or place where the umbilical veflels of the foetus paffed to and from the placent^ ; at the place of which cicatricula, the perito- neum is generally weaker than elfewhere. Now, if it be remembered, that this weak part is necefl'arily oppofite to the natural open- ing in the tendon of the external obhque muf, cle, that neither the internal oblique mufcle, nor the tranfverfalis, come low enough to make any refiftance to whatever fliall prefs againft this part, and that the acknowledged ule of the mufcles of the abdomen is by prefl- ing on all its contained vifcera to aflift digef- tio^^i, the expulfion of the faeces, urine, and foetus; and that in many natural aftions, fuch as fneezing and coughing, &c. and in all great exertions of ftrcngth and force, our «rea pofturc mud neceflarily occadou a pref^' iurqON RUPTURES. I7 Vol. II. C portipn ftire to be made againft the lower part of the infide of the belly, by fome of its contents; a very probable and fatisfaftory account of the origin of the common inguinal and fcrotal hernia may be Golle^led. In young children this defcent, or protru*:^ lion, happens moft frequently when the chi|44 flrains in crying, or in expelling its faeces : as.*/ foon as the effort ceafes, and the child is quiet, the part generally returns up again, and the fwelling difappears; the nurfes call it wind, and it is at firft moft frequently ne- gle6led, as the child is not apparently injured by it, and few people are fufficiently av/are of its poffible confequences. Not that the difeafe is by any means con- fined to children; adults frequently are at- tacked by it, either by falls, ftrains, great ex- ertions of ftrength, difficulty of expelling hard faeces, or a general laxity of frame. Whether the rupture be inguinal, fcrotal, or femoral, and whether it confiils of inteftine, or omentum, or both, the protruded part muft carry before it a part of the membrane which lines all the internal furface of the abdominal mufcles, or rather the whole cavity of the abdomen, and is called peritoneum. Thisit A TREATISE portion of the peritoneum, including tlie piecrtf of gut or caul, is known by the name of the hernial fac, and is larger, or fmalier, according to the quantity of inteftine, or omentum,- contained in it: it is at firft fmall and thiuy and in ruptures which are not of the conge- nial kind, feldom comes lower than the groin ^, at firft, but by repeated defcents it extends kfelf lower and lower, till it gets quite into the fcrotum, and ftillas it is extended in length, it becornes thicker and firmer in texture, till in old age, or old ruptures^ it is found of very eonfiderable thicknefs. As all parts of the peritoneum are of ayery extenfiblcj dilatable nature, and as the hernial fac has this property in common with many other parts of the body, of thickening as it extends^ it does in fome cafes ftretch to a very eonfiderable fize, and contain fuch a quantity of inteftine andi omentum as is almoft incre- dible. This circumftance of its becoming thicker as it is more extended is perhaps the d I will not fay pofitively that all thofe ruptures which appear in the fcrotum of very young children are f J'/^J^^^;; have the tunica vaginalis teftis for their hermal fac) but all tiiofe which I have had an opportunity of examining have proved fo ; and I believe it would be no erroneous criterion whereby to diftinguifh tlie common rupture from the congcmal, xn infant.,.tunica communis; nor did I ever fee, either bk feUPTURESi 10 feafon why fome people, and among them the late Mr. Chefelden, have been of opinion that the fac of a hernia was not an elongation of th^ peritoneum, butjiroduced like that of an aneu* rifm, and forne other tumors, by mere pref- fiire of the common cellular membrane ; an 'opinion, which is manifeflly and demonftrably erroneous. Whether the hernial fac in its infant ftate, while it is very thin, and may poffibly have contraded no adhefion to the cellular mem- brane compofing the tunica communis of the fpermatic veffelsj does ever return back into the belly again, I will not take upon me to determine abfolutely ; but am much inclined to think it does not, as well from the facility with which the gut or caul moft commonly defcend after they have been down a few- times, as from a fulnefs which is always to be perceived in the fpermatic procefs of fuch people as have ever been ruptured. Some fewof thefe I have had opportunities of open- ing after death, and have always found the fac, either in the groin or fcrotum (plainly a continuation of the peritoneum), remainino- firmly attached to, and conneded with theao A TREATISE ill the dead or the living, any reafon or autho- rity for the fuppofition, that it is capable ot returning back into the abdomen after it has been fairly pufhed out through the aperture in the tendon I intentionally avoid faying any thing about the old dodrine of the difference between dilatation and laceration of the peritoneum, it being now generally known and acknow- ledged, that to whatever fize the hernial fac may be extended, and however large its con- tents may be, it is merely dilated, and hardly ever burft or broken : the particular kind of cafe, which a few years ago gave rife to a fort e This Is a circumftance of fome Importance in the general treatment of raptures. Upon it depends the truth or falfehood of the late doarine of the poffibility of returning the xnteftine included in the hernial fac, and confined by fach a ftrifture of the fac itfelf, as may prove fatal after the gut is fairly got mto the abdomen again. A cafe, of which more than one inftance has been given to us. butin whichlam much inchnedto believe that fome miftake has been made, and which I alfo thmk may be ac- counted for in another and more falisfadory manner Upon this alfo depends the praaicability or -P-^'^f ^^^^ ° ing a ftrangulatedpieceof gutbackinto the belly, afterhav ng divided the ftriaure made by the tendon, without opening the hernial fac, and confequently the propriety or impropriety of laking fuch attempt. All endeavours to do what is impradi- Tat, being in caf^s of importance much worf. than doing no- tiling.ON RUPTURES. 21 of renewal of the old dodlrine of ruptures by laceration of the hernial fac, viz. that kind of hernia in which the gut and tefticle are found in the fame bag, and in immediate contadl with each other, being now fufficiently known and explained. See Sedl.X. of this Tradl. The ligns, or marks, of a common ingui- nal or fcrotal rupture, are in general a fwell- ing in the upper part of the fcrotum, or in the groin, beginning at the opening in the abdo- minal mufcles where the fpermatic veflels pafs down from the belly; which tumor has a different appearance, and different feel, accord- ing to the nature of its contents, and to the ftate and quantity of them. If a portion of inteftine forms it, and that portion be fmall, the tumor is fmall in pro- portion ; but though fmall, yet if the gut be diflended with wind, inflamed, or have any degree of ftridure made on it, it will be tenfe, refifl: the imprefiion of the finger, and give pain upon being handled. On the contrary, if there be no ftri£lure made by the tendon, and the inteftine fuffers no degree of inflam- mation, let the prolapfed piece be of what C 3 length22 A TREATISE length it may, and the tumor of whatever fize, yet the tenfion will be little, and no pain will attend the handling it; upon the patient's coughing, it will feel as if it was blown into, and in general it will be found very eafily re- turnable. If the hernia be of the omental kind, the tumor has a more flabby and a more unequal feel; it is in general perfeftly indolent, is more compreflible, gives the fcrotum a more oblong, and lefs round figure, than it bears ii^ an inteftinal hernia; and if the quaiatity be large, and the patient adult, it is in fome rnea-. fure diftinguifhable by its greater weight, If it confifts of both inteftine and omentum, the charafteriftic marks will be lefs clear than III either of the fimple cafes, but yet will to any bo'dy who is accuftomed to thefe difeafes be fufiieientdy fo, to enable them to diftin-r (Tuifh it from any other complaint. The only difeafes with which a true hernia can be confounded, are the venereal bube, the hydrocele, and that defiuxion on the tefticle, called hernia hum&ralis ; from each of wh^ch it is certainly very diftinguifliable. The circumfcribed incompreffible hardnefs, the fituation of the tumor, and its being free fromON RUPTURES, :2k^ from all connedlioii with the fpermatic pro- cefs, will fufficie.ntly point out the firft, at lead while it is in a recent ftate; and when it is in any degree fuppurated, he muft have a very fmall fhare of the ta^us eruditus, who cannot feel the difference between matter, and cither a piece gf inteftine, or omentum. The perfe£l equality of the whole tumor, the freedom and fmallnefs of the fpermatic procefs above it, the power of feeling the fper- matic velTels, and the vas deferens in that procefs, its being void of pain upon being han- dled, the fiuduation of the water, the gra- dual formation of the fwelhng, its having be- gun below and proceeded upwards, its not being affe£led by any pofture or action of the patient, nor increafed by his coughing or liieezing, together with the abfolute impoffi- bility of feeling the tefticle at the bottom of the fcrotum^, will always, to any intelligent perfbn, ^ By this remark It may poffibly be thought that I mean to fay, that the tejliclp is always to be felt at the Bottom of the fcrotum in a true hernia; which in general is true, but not with- out fome exceptions. In recent ruptures, of the common kind, whether of the gut, or caul, while the hernial fac is thin, has not been long, or very much diftended, and die. fcrotum ftill preferves a regularity of figure, the tefticle may almoft always jbe eaAly felt at the inferior and pofterior part of the tumor: C 4 but24 A TREATISE perfon, prove the difeafe to be a hydrocele of the tunku vaginalis tejiis. And in the hernia humorahs, the pain in the tefticle, its enlarge- ment, the hardened ftate of the epidydimis, and the exemption of the fpermatic chord from all unnatural fulnefs, are fuch marks as cannot eafily be miftaken; not to mention the generally preceding gonorrhea. But if any doubt ftill remains of the true nature of the difeafe, the progrefs of it from above downward, its different flate and fize in dif- ferent poftures, particularly lying and ftand- -ino;, together with its defcent and afcent, will, if duly, attended to, put it out of all doubt, that the tumor is a true hernia. If an attempt be made for the reduftion of the rupture, and it confifted of a piece of in- teftine, it generally flips up all at once. In its return it makes a kind of guggling noife, and when it is up, the fcrotum and procefs will be found free from any praeternatural fulnefs. If a portion of omentum formed it, it retires more gradually, without any of the but in old ruptures, which have been long down, in which the quantity of contents is large, the fac confiderably thickened, and the fcrotum of an irregular figure, it often happens that the tefticle is not to be felt, neither is it in general eafily felt m a cotigfnial hernia, for very ob^•ious reafons. noifeON RUPTURES. jj^ noife of the former, and requires to be followed by the finger to the laft. If both gut and caul contril)iited to the formation of it, the gut ge- nerally goes up firft, and leaves a flabby irre- gular kind of body behind it, which ftill pof- fefles the procefs or fcrotum, according as the difeafe was bubonocele, or ofcheocele, and requiring flill farther compreffion, at laft afcends. The inteftine faid to be raoft frequently found in a fcrotal hernia, is the ileum, though it is alfo allowed that the caecum and part of the colon have been met with* This is one of the many maxims which writer receives from writer, and inattentive readers all believe. That a portion of the ileum does often de- fccnd in a hernial fac is beyond all doubt; but that the defcent, or more properly protrufion, of a part of the csecum and colon is rafe, is not true, for it happens very frequently. Per- haps it would not bear to be eftabliflied as a general rule; but from what has fallen within my obfervation, in frequently performing the operation for a ftrangulated rupture, it has appeared to me, that the greater number of thofe in whom it has become neceflary, (all attempts26 A TREATISE attempts to reduce the parts by hand having proved fruitlefs) have conflfled of the cascum with its appendicula, and a portion of the co- lon. Nor will the fize, difpofition, and irre^ gular figure of this part of the inteftinal canal, appear upon due confideration a very impro- bable caufe of the difficulty or impoffibility of redu£tion by the hand only, I have already mentioned the principal cir^ cumfiances by v^^hich hernias are diftinguifh- able from other difeafes. But it is alfo to be obferved, that the fame kind of rupture in dif^ ferent people, and under different circumftan- ces, w^ears a very various face 5 the age and conftitution of the fubjea:, the date of the dif- eafe, its being free, or not free from ftrifture^ -or inflammation, the fymptoms which attend it, and the probabihty or improbability of its being returnable, neceffarily producing much variety; the degree of hazard attending this complaint will be 4fo more or lefs as it Jiappen to be circumflanced. If the fubjed be an infant, the cafe is not often attended with much difficulty or hazardj the'foftnefs and du.aility of their fibres gene- rally rendering the redudion eafy as well as ^hp defcent; and though froin negled or inat-. tentiouON RUPTURES. 2/ tention \t may fall down again, yet it is as eafily replaced, and feldom produces any mifchief; J fay ieldom, tjecaufe I have feen an infant, one year old, die of ^. ftrangnlated hernia, which had not been down two days, with all the iymptoms of mortified inteftines, If the patient be adult, and in the vigour of life, the confequences of negle6l, or of mal- treatment, are more to be feared than at any other time, for reafons too obvious to need re- lating. The great and principal mifchief to be apprehended in an inteftinal hernia, is aa inflammation of the gut, and an obftrudion to the paffage of the aliment, and faeces through it; which inflammation snd obftruc^ tion are generally produced by a flridlure made on the inteftine, by the borders of the aperture in the tendon of the abdominal muf^ cle, through which the hernia and its fac pafs. Now it muft be obvious, that the greater the fiatural ftrength of the fubjed is in general, and the more liable to inflammation, the greater probability there muft be of ftridture, ^nd the more mifchief likely to enfue from it. In very old people, the fymptoms do not ufually make fuch rapid progrefs, both on ac- PQunt of the laxity of their frame, and their more28 A TREATISE more languid circulation ; and alfo that their ruptures are moft frequently of ancient date, and the paffage a good deal dilated: but then, on the other hand, it Ihould alfo be remem- bered that they are by no means exempt from inflammatory fymptoms; and that if fuch {hould come on, the infirmity of old age is no favourable circumftance in the treatment which may become neceffary. , If the difeafe be recent, and the patient young, immediate redudion, and conftant care to prevent its pulliing out again, are the only means whereby it is poffible to obtain a perfect cure. If the difeafe be of long ftanding, has been negleaed, or fuffered to be frequently down, and has given little or no trouble, the aperture in the abdominal mufcle, and the neck of the hernial fac may both be prefumed to be large; which circumftances in general render imme- diate reduaion lefs neceffary and lefs difficult, and alfo fruftrate all rational expedation of a perfea cure. On the contrary, if the rup- ture be recent, or though old has generally been kept up, its immediate reduftion is more abfolutely neceffary, as the rifque of ftridure is greater from the fuppofed fmallnefs of the aperture,ON RUPTURES. 29 aperture, and narrownefs of the neck of the fac. If the rupture be very large and ancient, the patient far advanced in life, the inteftine not bound by any degree of ftri£lure, but does its office in the fcrotum regularly, and no other inconvenience be found to attend it, but what proceeds from its weight, it will in ge- neral be better not to attempt redu£i:ion, as it will in thefe circumftances moft probably prove fruitlefs, and the handling of the parts in the attempt may fo bruife and injure them as to do mifchief; but this mud be underftood to be fpoken of thofe only in which there is not the fmalleft degree of ftridure, nor any fymptom of obftrudion in the inteftine; fuch circumftances making redu6tion neceflary at all times, and in every cafe. With regard to the contents of a hernia, if it be a portion of omentum only, and has been gradually formed, it feldom occafions any bad fymptoms, though its weight will fometimes render it very troublefome. But if it be pro- duced fuddenly by effort or viplence, that is, if a confiderable piece of the caul by accident flip down at once, it will fometimes prove painful, and caufe very difagreeable com- plaints; the connexion between the omen- tum,3^ A tREATlSg turn, ftomach, duodenum^ &c. being fuck to render the fildden defcfent of a large piece of the firft fometimes produftive of naufea^ vomiting, cohc, and all the difagreeable fymp- toms ariling from the derangement of thefe vifcera. When the piece of caul is engaged in fuch a degree of ftridure as to prevent the circulation of blood through it, it will fometimes, by becoming gangrepous, be the oCcafion of very bad fymptoms, and even of death, as I have more than once feen : and thus, as a mere omental hernia, it may fome= times be fubjea to great hazard. But even though it fhould never be hable to the juft-- mentioned evil, that is, though the portion of the caul fhould remain uninjured in the fcro- tum, yet it renders the patient conftantly liable to hazard from another quarter; it makes it every moment poffible for a piece of inteftine to flip into the fame fac, and thereby add to the cafe all the trouble and all the dan-* ger arifmg ffom an inteftinal rupture^ It is by no means an uncommon thing for a piecd of gut to be added to a rupture, vv^hich had for many years been merely omental, and for that piece to be ftrangulated, and require im- mediate help.An old omental hernia is often rendered not reducible, more by an alteration made in the ftate of the prolapfed piede of caul, than by- its quantity^ It is very common for that part of the omentum which pafles through the neck of the fac to Be Comprefled into a hard, fmooth body, and lofe all appearance of caul^ while what is below in the fcrotum is loofe and expanded, and enjoys its natural texture 5 in this cafe reduction is often impoffible, from the mere figure, of the part; and I have fo 6ften feen this, both in the living and the deadj that I am fatisfied, that for one omental rupture rendered irreducible by adhefions^ many more become fo from the caufe above- mentioned. In the fac of old omental ruptures that have been long down, and only fufpended by a bag trufs, it is no very uncommon thing to have a pretty coniiderable quantity of fluid col- lected: this, in different ftates and circum- ftances of the difeafe, is of different colour and confiftencCj and feldom fo much in quantity as to occafion any particular attention to it; but on the other hand, it fometimes is fo much in quantity as to become an additional difeafe to the original one. I have more than * once32 . A TREATISE once been obliged to let it out, in order to remove the inconvenience arifing from its weisht, and the diftention of the fcrotum, which I have alfo feen become gangrenous by the negled of this operation. If the hernia be of the inteftinal kind, merely, and the portion of gut be fmall, the tifque is greater, flrangulation being more likely to happen in this cafe, and more pro- dudive of mifchief, when it has happened: for the fmaller the portion of gut is which is engaged, the tighter the tendon binds, and the more hazardous is the confequence. I have feen a fatal gangrene, in a bubonocele, which had not been formed forty-eight hours, and in which the piece of inteftine was little more than half an inch. There are few prac- titioners who have feen bufinefs, but know the truth of this; but perhaps the reafon of it is not fufficiently explained to the unknow- ing^; it is this; when a confiderable portion of inteftine paffes out from the belly in a hernial fac, it neceffarily and unavoidably carries with it a proportional quantity of the mefentery, which every body knows is a ftrong double membrane. When the prolapfed part is at all confiderable, this double membrane is againON JRUPTURES. 111 fome meafure folded on itfelf, and takes ofF a good deal of the effect of the ftri^lure.on the inteftine. Now although this circumftance will not prevent the efte6V, if the means of relief be totally negle6ted, yet it will mofl: certainly retard the evil, and give more time for affirtance; whereas, when there is little or none of the mefentery got through the ten- don, and the thin, tender inteftine bears all the force of the ftridure, it is immediately brought into hazard. The pradical inference to be drawn from hence is too obvious to need mentionino;. In the inteftinal, as in the omental hernia, they which have been often or long down, are in general more eafily returned, and do not require fuch immediate affiftance, as they which have feldom been down, or have re- cently defcended; and in the one kind of her- nia as well as in the other, the ftate of the hernial fac with regard to fize, thicknefs, &c. depends very much on the date of the difeafe, and the regard that has been paid to it. If the hernia be caufed by a portion of the inteftine ileum only, it is in general more eafily reducible than if a part of the colon has defcended with it, which will alfo require Vol. II. D more34 -A TREATISE more addrefs and rhore patience in tlie at- tempt. The reduaion of a mere inteftinal hernia too (caeteris paribus) will always re- main more pra<5licable than that of a mere omental one^ after it has attained to a certain fize and ftate, as the part contained within the former is liable to lefs alteration of formi than that within the latter j which alteration has already been mentioned as no infrequent hindrance of the return of an old caul rup- tured Not that the parts withiri a nrtere inteftinal hernia are abfolutely exerhpt from fuch an ^ alteration as may render their return into the belly impi-aaicable, even where there is no flriaure ; for I have feen that part of the me- fentery, which has ihm long in the neck of the fac of an old rupture, fo confiderably har- dened and thickened^ as to prove an infuper- able obftacle to its reduftion. . Upon the whole, every thing confidered, I think it may be faid, that an inteftinal rup- ture is fubjea to worfe fymptoms, and a greater degree of hazard than an omental one, though the latter is by no nfieans fo void of either as it is commonly fuppofed to be; that bad fymptoms are more likely to attend a re- Q centoff RUPTURES. 2^ cent rupture than one of ancient date; that the defcent of a very fmall piece of inteftine is more hazardous than that of a larger; that the hernia which confifts of gut only is in general attended with worfe circumftances than that which is made up both of gut and caul; and that no true judgment can be formed of any rupture at all, unlefs every circumftance relating to it be taken into con- fideration. The ^ cure of a rupture is either perfect, (called alfo radical) or imperfed, which is called palliative. This diftindion, which is jufl and true, and founded both on reafon and experience, has frequently been mifunderftood by the gene- rality of mankind, and has therefore been the caufe of much undeferved cenfure on the praditioners of furgery. The truth is, that though the events are extremely different, yet the chirurgical means which are made ufe of in either cafe are ex- aaiy the fame, viz. redudion of the protruded parts, and retention of them when fo reduced by proper bandage: thefe, fomctimes, and in ^ 2 fome36 A TREATISE fom6 circumftances, produce a perfect cure} at other times, and urider other circumftan- ces, prove only a palliative one; and this un- certainty of event, being dependent on eaufes which a furgeon can neither forefee, nor di- re6l with any tolerable degree of certainty, ihould warn him againfl being too forward in making a promife. To thofe who are ignorant of the anatomi- cal ftruclure and difpofition of the parts con- cerned in the difeafe, this affertion has the air of a paradox: they naturally fuppofe that the means which are or fliould be made ufe of to obtain a radical or perfed cure, are or ought to be different from thofe ufed toward obtain- ing only a palliative one; and in this miftake they are confirmed by the bold though falfe affe'rtions of all rupture-quacks. To labour under a troublefome diforder, perhaps in the moft joyous and adive part of life, is very difagreeable: to be told that a pal- liative cure, by the conftant ufe of a trufs, is all that can reafonably be expefted, gives fmall comfort, and renders the infinuation, that the regular profeflbrs of furgery do not underftand the proper treatment of this dif- eafe, credible, or at leaft makes it be believed:ON RUPTURES. ^7 quod volumus, facile credimus. Ignorance of the true nature of the diforder, with a ftrono- defire to be vvell, on the fide of the patient, and bold piaufible promifes on the lide of the pretender, encourage the delufion, till time, and the continuance of the rupture, prove the fraud, which few are found ingenuous enough to own. Whether it proceeds from a falfe bafhfulnefs, which makes a man be alhamed of acknowledging that he has been impofed upon; from a dehre merely to conceal the dif- order; from a pleafure ariling from feeing others deceived as well as themfelves; or from a much worfe caufe than either of thefe, I know not: but it happens not very infre- quently that the patient, though perfedly un- deceived, and convinced of the impofition, concurs in propagating the delufion, and af- ferts that he has received a cure, which he. knows he has not. Of this I could produce ixii.n V" inftances, and fome of thofe amono- people of fuch rank, as one would expeft fhould fet them above filch difingenuoufnefs. •.I have already fai.d, that to replace the pro^ lapfed body, or bodies, within the cavity of the belly, and to prevent their falling out again, by means of a proper bandage, is all 3 that38 A TREATISE that the art of furgery is capable of doing in this difeafe: and what I faid was ftridly true. But it mull: alfo be remembered, that nature, according to the age of the patient, the date of the difeafe, the kind of rupture, and feme other circumftances, is often capable, (when properly affiled, and not obftrudled) of doing more, and of confirming that as a perfed cure in fome, which in others fhe leaves imper- fea, and conftantly requiring the affiftance of art : for when the portion of gut or caul, or whatever formed the tumor, is perfectly and jiroperly replaced in the belly, and an oppor- tunity thereby given to the aperture in the tendon to contrad itfelf, and for a^ proper ban- dage to bring the fides of the entrance of the hernial fac as near together as it will admit, the furgeon has really done his part: what remains is that of nature: and whether {he will be capable of fo contraaing the part, as to prevent a future defcent or not, is matter of great uncertainty: it is a circumftance which art has very little power of aflifting, and which can be known only from the event. On the contrary, all the pretenfions which haveatdiiferent times been made to remedies, induedON RUPTURES, 3p indued with a capacity of healing and confo- lidating the parts fuppofed to be broken or torn, or of conftringing fuch as are dilated, have all proved inefficacious and delufive, to ■fay the beft of them: the parts concerned in •this difeafe, and which ought to be afFefted by the operation of fuch remedies, are abfo- lutely out of the reach of any applications or medicines whatever: the relief which fome people have found while under fuch procefles, has been from the long reft which they have been fubjedled to, or from the ftri£t bandage which has been put upon them; either of which will in fome cafes do a great deal ; while the remedies which are either applied or taken, are made ufe of merely to deceive^ ;and never had, or can have, any ihare in the real cure of a rupture. By. what has been faid, I muft beg not to be underftood to mean, that when the gut or caul have been once replaced, the patient can receive no farther benefit from chirurgical af- •fiftance; nor that every rupture in perfons of jnature age is incapable of perfed cure : this is far from my meaning, and far from truth. There are many circumftances attending rup- tures, which will require frequent affiftance ^ 4 ill40 A TREATISE in order to render a cure more probable; and there are many ruptures in perfons of mature age, which will admit of perfe6l cure, if pro- perly and judicioufly managed from the firft. I only mean tocontradid.thatpofitive affer- tion which all rupture-quacks imake ufe of, and which too many of mankind believe, viz. that there are medicines and apphcations which are fpecific in the . cure of this difeafe, and that they (fuch quacks) are poffefled of them; both which are abfolutely falfe. As this is a matter of fome importance to mankind, and may poffibly be rendered ftiU more intelligible by a few words, I beg leave to be indulged in them. The general dodrine is, that the ruptures of infants, and of veiry young children, fre^ quently admit of a perfect cure ; .thofe of adults lefs frequently ; and thofe of old people feldom or never ; all whigh, with certain limitations, is true. The great and material difference between thefe confifts in the ftate of the hernial fac, and that of the apertur? in the abdominal ten- don through which it paifes. The fac of a . hernia has already been de- scribed as being an elongation or procefs of th? peritoneum,■ON RUPTURES. 4I peritoneum, or general lining of the cavity of the belly, thru ft down before the body con- ilituting the fwelhng; which body is enve- loped in it as in a bag, fomewhat refembling what is vulgarly called a thumb-flail, or the finger of a glove cut off. While the hernia is recent, this bag is thin and fine, like the reft of the membrane of which it is a portion; and being of a very dilatable nature, is eafily enlarged, according to the quantity of con- tents which infinuate themfelves into it: like fome other parts of the body, it increafes in thicknefs andtoughnefs as it increafes,in capa- city ; and as it feldom, if ever returns back into the belly, after it has once pafl'ed out from it, it is by the repeated defcen ts of .a por- tion of gut or caul into it, gradually enlarged in fize, and confequently in thicknefs ; info- rnuch that in old ruptures that have been ne,- gle£led, or deemed irreducible, or been buf- fered to remain long, or always down, it generally acquires a very confiderable degree of toughnefs, thicknefs, and hardnefs. In thofe ruptures which are not of the congenial kind, at firll; it gets no lower than the groin., and while it remains there is generally fmall and thin ; but by frequent protrufions of the intefline42 . A TREATISE intejftine or omentum, it is pufhed by degree? into the fcrotum, and then moft frequently acquires a pyriform kind of figure, having its broader part in the fcrotum, and its narrow one, or neck, in the groin. In infants, in very young fubjefts, and in recent cafes, this fac, from its foft thin ftate, is capable of having its upper part or neck, fo compreffed by means of a bandage, as either to procure an union of the lides with each other, or at leaft fo to leffen the diameter of its paffage as to prevent the defcent of any thing into it from the belly: this produces what is commonly called a perfect cure. In thofe of mature age, or whofe ruptures are of fome ftanding, the entrance into the fac is generally large, in proportion to the fize and age of the patient, and thicker and firmer than in the former ftate, for reafons juft given5 in thefe, therefore, the clofing or com- preffion of its neck, enough to hinder the falling down of any thing from the abdomen, is more difficult to accomplifh, and more un^ likely to fucceed. In very ancient people, or very old ruptures, fuccefs is ftill more impro- bable, for the fame reafons. A bandageON RUPTURfiS. 4j 2. That A bandage therefore, or trufs, though it is the only remedy at all ages, and in all ftates of reducible ruptures, yet ads in a diiffereiit manner, and is capable of producing veiy dif- ferent efFedts, according to the circumftances of the cafes in which it is applied: ih very young perfons, a radical cure is frequently the confequence; in the middle-aged it often gives the tendon and mouth of the fac fuch oppor^ tunity of being contrafted, as to produce nearly the fame event; but as it only ferves by the mere preffure of the pad l:o keep the parts in their proper place, in very old people it can hardly ever be laid afide, without hazard of a pew defcent, which, while it is worn pro- perly, it will almofl always prevent. From the foregoing fhort account, the fol- lowing hdis may, I think, be colleded. I. That the principal circumftances attend- ing a rupture muft be fubjcd to great varietyj according to the age and conftitution of the patient, the date of the difeafe, &c. and confe- quently that the precife cafe, and age, in which a radical or perfed cure is obtainable or not, is not eafy to be determined, though a judicious man will mofl commonly know when it is very improbable.44 A TREATISE .; ^. That recejit ,ruptures, if immediately and properly taken care of, are capable of' a per- |e£t cure at almoft any age, 3. That though the thicknefsof the hernial iac, and the largenefs of; the abdominal aper- ture, are generally mentioned as the two caufes why old ruptures do not admit of a cure, yet in fad the latter is only a confe- cj^uence of the former. That all external applications in the at- tempt toward the cure of a rupture, muft, if they are ufed with any defign, at^ all, be, in- tended either to conftringe the aperture through which the parts have defcended, or to lelTen or contrad the diameter of :the neck of the hernial fac. 15. That the conflruaion of the tendinous aperture (fuppofuig fuch medicines could pe- netrate to it) is impoffible, while it continues dilated, by an. old, thick, tough hernial fac, k\\\ich fac, from the connexions it always has with the cellular membr:an^,of the fpermatic Q^ord, can never be returned intt> the belly; and therefore, f -.0 .....i-. . _ - . 6, That fuch medicines -cpiH. be. ferviceable no other way than by rendering, that fac again thin, fine, and corripreffible; ;which, from the natureON RUPTURES. 45 mture of things and from all experience, is ab- Iblutely impradicable. SECT. II. The different treatment which ruptures may require, being dependent on different cir- cumftances attending the difeafe, I fhall for the better information of the inexperienced I'eader divide them into four clafles; under which, I think, may be comprehended not only all the kinds of hernias, but every parti- cularity alfo with whi^h they may happen to be diftinguifhed. I. Under the iirft, I reckon thofe which are capable of eafy and immediate redudlion, and are not attended by any troublefome or bad fymptoms. 2. Under the fecond, thofe which have been fo long down, that the contained parts are either fo altered in form, or have contraded fuch adhefions and conne6lions, as to be abfo- lutely incapable of being reduced at all. 3. Under the third, I comprehend thofe in which fuch ftriaiire has been made on the protruded parts, as to bring on pain, and pro- duce fuch an obftruaion in the internal ca- nal,46 A TREATISE nal, as to render immediate redu£llon iiecef- fary, but at the fame time difficult. 4. And under the fourth, I fhall place thofe in which the return of the parts by the mere hand is abfolutely imprafticable, and in which the patient's hfe can be faved only by a chi- rurgical operation. The firfl is very frequently met with irt infants, and fometimes in adults, and is too often negleded in both. In the former, as the defcent feldom happens but when the in- fant ftrains to cry, and the gut is either eafily put up, or returns, fua fponte, as foon as the child becomes quiet, it often is either totally unattended to; or an attempt made to reftrain it only by a bandage made of cloth or dimity, and which being ineffeaual for fuch purpofe, lays the foundation for future trouble and mifchief. This is in great meafure owing to a com- mon opinion, that a young infant cannot wear a fteel trufs: a generally prevailing error, and which ought to be correded. There is no age at which fuch trufs may not be worn, or ought not to be applied ; it is, when well made, and properly put on, not only perfeftly fafe and eafy, but the only kind of bandage thatON RUPTURES. 4y that can be depended upon: and as a radical cure depends greatly on the thinnefs of the hernial fac, and its being capable of being fo compreffed as poffibly to unite, and thereby entirely clofe the pafiage from the belly, it mufl: therefore appear to every one who will give himfelf the trouble of thinking on the fubje£l, that the fewer times the parts have made a defcent, and the fmaller and finer the elongation of the peritoneum, is the greater the probability of fuch cure muft be. The fame method of afting muft for the fame reafons be good in every age in which a radical cure may reafonably be expeded; that IS, the prolapfed parts cannot be too foon re- turned, nor too carefully prevented from fall- ing down again, every new defcent rendering a cure both more diftant and more uncertain. As foon as the parts are returned, the trufs Ihould be immediately put on, and worn, without remiffion, care being taken, efpeci- ally if the patient be an infant, to keep the parts on which it preffes conftantly wafhed, to prevent galling % ft • As the conftant and unremitted wearing a tiufs, to Come people is irkfome, and inconvenient, it may not be improper to remaric that Mr. Pott did not intend by the exprefGon " ^.vcrn ■o^thm nmijftoiir that the trufs is always to be worn, by night, asA TREATISEJ It can hardly be neceffary to fay, tKat thd furgeon fhould be Careful to fee that the trufs fits, as his fuccefs and reputation depend on fuch care. A trufs which does not prefs enough is woiic than none at all, as it occa- iions lofs of time, and deceives the patient or his friends; and one which preffes too much, or on an improper part, gives pain and trou- ble, by producing an inflammation and fwell- ing of the fpermatic chord, and fometimes of the tefticle. In adults, whofe ruptures are of long fland- iug, and accuftomed to frequent defcent, the heniial fac is generally firm and thick, and the aperture in the tendon of the abdominal muf- cle large; the freedom and eafe with which the par'ts return into the belly, when the pa- as well as by day; he generally allowed it to be taken ofF when ia bed, as a recumbent pofture, in moft cafes, is fufhcient fecu- rity againft the reprotrufion of the intefline or omentum; but ■ the trufs Ihould be carefully re-applied in the mornmg, while the perfon is in the fame horizontal pofuion, and either Ke, or fhejfhould be particularly obfervant to put u on w e .nder the neceffity of going to ftool m the ^f - '^^^J^^ tient be fubjed to fits of coughing, common fenfe diftates that Ife tim'es it ought not to be laid a^de "Children are fo fubiedt to violent exertions from crying and other caufes, that heir tnifTes cannot often be fafely left off; but when they are well and quiet, and in bed, the preffure may now and then be rXioufl difpenfed with, and the removal of it though but lor (hort intervals, affords them great eafe and rebef. tON RUPTURES. ' 49 tieiit is in a fupine pofture, and the little pain which attends a rupture of this kind, often render the perfons who labour under it care- lefs : but all fuch fhould be informed, that they are in conftant danger of fuch alteration in their complaint, as may put them into great hazard, and perhaps deftroy them. The paflage from the belly being open, the quan- tity of inteftine in the hernial fac is always liable to be increafed, and when down, to be bound by a ftridlure. An inflammation of that portion of the gut which is down, or fuch obftruftion in it as may diftend and en- largeit, may at all times produce fuch com- plaints as may put the life of the patient into imminent danger; and therefore, notwith- flanding this kind of hernia may have been borne for a great length of time, without hav- ing proved either troublefome or hazardous, yet as it is always poffible to become fo, and that very fuddenly, it can never be prudent or fafe to negled it. Even though the rupture fliould be of the omental kind, (which confidered abftradedly is not fubje£t to that degree or kind of danger ■to which the inteftinal is liable) yet it may be fecondarily, or by accident, the caufe of Vol. II. E all5© A TRfiATISE all the fame miichief; for while it keeps the mouth of the hernial fac open, it renders the defcent of a piece of inteftine always polfible, and corifequenlily always likely to produce the mifchief which may proceed from thence. They who labour under a hernia thus cir- eumftaiiced,- that is, whofe ruptures have been generally down while they have been in an- ered pofture, and which have either gone up of themfelves, or have been eafily put Up rn a fupine one, fliould be particularly care- ful to have their trufs well made, and pro- perly fitted; for the mouth of the fac, and the opening in the tendon being both large and lax, and the parts having been ufed to defcend through them, if the pad of the trufs be not placed right, and there be not a due degree of ekfticity in the fpring, a piece of in- teftine will, in fome pofture, flip down behind it, and render the trufs produdive of that very kind of mifchief which it ought to prevent. It is fcarcely credible how very fmall an opening will fervc for a portion of gut or caul to infinuate themfelves into at fome times. Now, though in perfons of mature age it moft frequently proves impraaicable fo to comprefs the mouth of the hernial fac, adCN RtJPTURfiS. as abfolntely to clofe it, yet by the conftant life of a well-made triifs, it may be fo lef- iened, as to render the defcent of a piece of inteftine into it much more difficult: from whence we may learn the great confequence of having the part completely reduced before the trufs is apphed, and the danger that may be incurred by laying fuch bandage afide after it has .been worn fome time; fince the fame alteration which renders the defcent of the gut lefs eafy, will alfo make the redudion more difficult, if a piece fhould happen to get down: and hence alfo we may learn why the bandage fhould be long and unremittingly worn by all thofe whofe time of life makes the expedations of a perfea cure reafonable, many of the ruptures of adults being owing to the negligent manner in which children at fchool are fufFered to wear their truffes. I know a. gentleman who has for fome years had an'omental rupture, which was negleaed while he was'young, and he having .naturally a lax habit, and the abdominal open- ing being much dilated, he finds it extremely difficult to keep it up, even with the bed trufs he can get, behind which it will fome- times flip down; when this happens, it gives ^ him f52 ^ A TREATISE him fuch immediate and acute pain at his fto- mach, and makes him fo intolerably fick, that he is obliged immediately to throw himfelf on his back, and procure the return of the piece of omentum. SECT. III. ' In the fecond clafs I ranked thofe cafes in which the parts conftituting the hernia are found irreducible, but not in a ftate of inflam- mation, nor producing any troublefome or dangerous kind of fymptoms. This incapacity of redudion may be owing to feveral caufes, but moft frequently arifes either from the largenefs of the quantity of the contents, from an alteration made in their form and texture, or from connedions and adhefions which they have contraded with each other, or with their containing bag. I have already mentioned it as my opinion that ruptures are fometimes rendered difficult to be reduced, by that portion of the inteftinal canal which is called the caecum, or the be- ginning of the colon, being contained ni the hernial fac. Of which fad I 'am as much convincedON RUPTURES. 53 convinced as the nature of fuch kind of things will permit; that is, by obfervations made both on the livino- and the dead. When a hernia of this kind (viz. one con- taining fuch a part of the inteftinal tube) has been long neglefted, and fufFered to re- main in the fcrotum v/ithout any bandage at all to fupport its weight, the hernial fac being conftantly dragged down, and kept in aftate ofdiftention, neceflarily becomes thick, hard, and tough ; by this means the dianieter of its neck is leffened, and the return of the inteftine back from the fcrotum into the belly rendered more and more difhcult, as the parts through which it is to pafs become harder, and lefs capable of yielding. This will, indeed, in time prove an obftrudion fuf- ficient to hinder any part of the inteftine, or even of the omentum, from being returned ; but the more the difficulty is, which pro- ceeds from the mere figure and fize of the portion of gut, the greater will be the ob- ftru£lion when added to that arifmg from the juft mentioned caufe. An alteration produced by time, and con- ftant, though gentle, preffure in the form and confiftence, or texture of the omentum, E 3 is54 A TREATISE is alfo no infrequent caufe, why negleded omental ruptures become irreducible. The cellular membrane in all parts of the body, however loofe and light its natural tex- ture may l^e, is capable of becoming hard, firm, ai^d compadt, by conftant prelFure. Of this there are fo many, and fo well known inftances, that it is quite unneceffary to pro- duce any. The omentum, from its texture, is liable to the fame confequence. When a portion of it has been fufFered to remain for a great lensth of time in the fcrotum, without hav- ing ever been returned into the belly, it often happens that although that part of it which is in the lower part of the hernial preferves its natural foft, adipofe, expanfile ftate, yet all that part which paffes through what is called the neck of the fac is, by conftant preffure, formed into a hard, firm, incom- preffible, carnous kind of body, incapable of being expanded, and taking the form of the paffage in which it is confined, exadly fiUing that paffage, and rendering it impolfible to pufh up the loofe part which fills the fcro- tum. This is no theoretic opinion, but a fa£l, whic(iON RUPTURES. .55 which I have feeii and proved often ; and whoever will refled on it, will immediately find in it one infuperable objedion to the re- turn of fome old omental ruptures. The fame reafon for incapacity of redudion is alfo fometimes met with in ruptures of the inteflinal kind, from an alteration produced on that part of the mefentery which has been faffered to lie quiet for a great length of time in the neck of an old hernial fac. The other impediment, which I mention- ed, to the return of old ruptures, is connec- tion and adhehon of the parts, either with each other, or with the bag containing them. This is common to both the intefiinal and omental hernia, and is produced by flight in- flammations of the parts, which have been permitted to lie long in conta(53; with each other, or perhaps in many cafes from the mere contadt only. Thefe adhefions are more or lefs firm in different cafes, but even the flighteft will almoft always be found an invincible objedion to the reduction of the adherent parts, by the hand only. Many, or perhaps moft of thefe irreducible ruptures become fo by mere time and ne- ^led, and might at firft have been returned ; E 4 but$6 A TREATISE but when thej are got into this ftate, they are capable of no reUef from furgery but the appUcation of a fufpenfory bag, to take off or leffen the * inconvenience arifmg from the weight of the fcrotum. People in this fituation fliould be particu- larly careful not to make any attempts be- yond their ftrength, nor aim at feats of agi- lity ; they fliould take care to fufpend the loaded fcrotum, and to keep it out of the way of all harm from preffure, bruife, &c. When the tumor is very large, a foft quilted bolder fliould be worn at the bottom of the fufpen- fory to prevent excoriation, and the fcrotum fliould be frequently waflied for the fame reafon; alofs of Ikin in this part, and in fuch = I am not unaware that moft of thefe are capable of being cured by the operation for the bubonocple, as it is called; but as I fliould never think of propofing it in any cafe in which there are not fymptoms that threaten the life of the patient, fp I have not mentioned it in this place as a means of cure. I alfo am not unapprifed what influence a fuccefsful operation or two of this fort has h^d on the unknowing; but I alfo know that lUch accidental fuccefles have emboldened the fame ope- rators to commit more than one or two murders, in fimilar cafes; and that, from the prevalence of fafhion, fome of thefe rupture.doftors have been largely rewarded, wlien they ought to have been hanged. circumftances.ON RUPTURES. 57 circnmftances, being fometimes of the iitmoft importance. They ought alfo to be particu- larly attentive to the office .of the inteftinal canal, to fee that they do not by any irregu- larity of diet diforder it, and keep themfelves from being coftive, for reafons too obvious to need relating. By thefe means, and with thefe cautions, many people have palled their lives for many years fr^ee from difeafe, or com?- plaint, with very large irreducible ruptures. On the other hand, it is fit that mankind ihould be apprifed that the quiet, inofFenfive ftate of this kind of hernia is by no means to be depended upon ; many things may happen to it, by which it may be fo altered, as to be- come hazardous, and even fatal: an inflam- mation of that part of the gut which is down, any obftrudlion to the paffage of the aliment or fieces through it, a ftridlure made by the abdominal tendon, either on what has been long down, or on a new portion which may at any time be added to it, are always capable of fo altering the ftate of the cafe, as to put the life of the patient into danger. Indeed the hazard arifnig from a flridlure made on a piece of inteftine contained in the fac of an old irreducible hernia, is in one re- fped5^ A TREATISE fped greater than that attending one that has been found at times reducible; fince from the nature of the cafe it will hardly admit of any attempt toward relief, but the operation, and that in thefe circumftances muft neceflarily be accompanied with additional difficulty ^ Among , I was fome time ago defired to be prefent at the opening cf the dead body of a man who had for many years laboured under a large irreducible hernia, but which had never given him any trouble than what proceeded from its weight, and whq died very old: my then Hate of health would not permit me to go, but I defired leave to fend a very ingenious young gentle- man, Mr. Price, who was then my pupil at St. Bartholomew's, and is now fettled in Wales. The following is the account h? gave me. " The hernia was of fourteen years ftanding, during which " time no attempt had ever been made for its redudtion; it was on the right fide, and diftended the fcrotum to fuch a fize, " that it meafured, from the opening in the abdominal mufcle, to the bottom of the tumor, fourteen inches and an half, and " round the tumor twenty-two inches; the ring, as it is called, " was very large,and had no appearance of ftridlure; the facwas not fo thick as might have been expedted, and contained no " water J the jejunum ileum, the fac of the colon, called the " cscum, with its appendicula vermiformis, together with -a " large portion of omentum, were the contents; the duodenuni was fo difplaced by the weight of the relt of the guts within *« the fac, that its direftion from the pylorus was perpendicular} the caul adhered to the hernial fac in feveral places, the in- teftine in none; the tefticle, included in its tunica vaginalis, " was much wafted; the fpermatic artery and vein ran down " behind the hernial fac, but the vas deferens ran up on the in-ON RUPTURES, ^t) Among the ruptures which have been thought not reducible, and treated as fuch, there have been fome which, upon more judicious and more patient attempts, have been found capa- ble of reducation. When this is fufpefted to. be the cafe, the proper method is by abfolute reft, in a fupine pofture, for a confiderable length of time, by- great abftinence, and the ufe of evacuants, fo to leffen the ftze of the parts in the hernial fac as to render them capable of paffing back again into the belly. This method has now and then fucceeded, and in fome cafes is worth the trying; but, previous to the attempt, there fhould be fome circumftance which makes fuccefs probable; and there fhould alfo be good reafon to believe, that the habit and age of the patient will bear the neceflary confinement and evacuation; other wife, even though he fhould get rid of his rupture, he may be much worfted by the experiment f ner and left fide of it, at a great diftance from them, through " the whole of its courfe, but neverthelefs would not have been " in the way of the operation had it been neceflary." Hildanus gives an account of a man radically cured by fix months confinement to bed, in the cafe of a rupture of twenty years date.6q a treatise If fuch attempt fucceeds, a trufs fhould be immediately put on, and worn conftantly, without remiffion; for, in thefe people, the largenefs of the abdominal aperture, the thick- n?fs of the hernial fac, and the relaxation of the mefentery, make a new defcent always to be apprehended and guarded againft. An omental rupture, which has been fo long in the fcrotum as to have become irre- ducible, is very feldom attended*^ with any bad fymptoms, confidered abftradedly : but, as I have already faid, it is conftantly capable of being the occafion of an inteftinal hernia, and all its confequences; neither is that all, for the omentum, either fo altered in form and texture, or fo connected as to be incapa- ble of redudion, may by accident,inflame, and either become gangrenous or fuppurate, and be the occafion of a great deal of trouble. Of this I have feen two or three inftances, one of which I will relate, bc-J,.was defired to fee a gentlenian, from whofe fcrotum near a pint of brown, fanious, .foetid fluid had been difcharged two or three •days before. The .account he gave of himfelf <« Garengeot relates the cafe of an epiplocele producing very bad fymptomsj and- fo docs Dionis, wasON RUPTURES. 6l was as follows: That he had been from his youth fubjedl to the defcent of a foft, flabby body into the fcrotum, when he was in an ere6l pofture, but which for many years he could put up when he pleafed, and which ill- ways went up when he lay down; that hav- ing no trouble from it, and being naturally fliy and bafhful, he had done nothing to it, nor fhewed it to any one; that from the fud- den fpring of an unruly horfe, he had ftruck it with great violence againft the pummel of his faddle, which had given him immediate pain; that the next day it fwelled ftill more, and became more painful, but that being afraid or afliamed, he ftill concealed it, and only anointed it with fomething greafy, till at lafl he could bear it no longer ; the perfon to whom he lliewed it took it for a hydrocele, tapped it, and let out the fluid juft mentioned ; and on the fifth or fixth day from this oper- ation I faw it. The whole fcrotum was much inflamed, and the orifice made by the trocar foul and floughy : he had a degree of heat and fever upon him, which forbad any operation at that time; and therefore I defired that he rnight be dreffed foft and eafy, have an- emollient cataplafm /62 A TREATISE I cataplafm applied to the whole fcrotiim, lofe fome blood, and have a glyfter. By proper care the tumor fubfided, his fevef left him, ^nd the flough cafting off largely- brought the putrid omentum within view ; upon light of which I would have laid the whole open, but was not permitted. I en- larged the orifice a little, and in fo doing cut through an old hernial fac, which was very thick and hard ; what part of the omentum was loofe I brought away with a pair of for- ceps ; but the feparation of the whole took up much time, and the hard hernial fac caufed fo many abfceffes, and occafioned fo large a difcharge, that, being a valetudinarian, he had certainly funk under it, had it not been for the free ufe of the bark. If, inftead of this method of treating it, I had been permitted to have laid it open through the whole of its length, removed the rotten omentum, and cut off fome part of the fides of the hernial fac, the' cure would have been Ihortened, and the fcrotum would have been left in a much better ftate. That an omental rupture, which has fo "long refilled all attempts for reduaion, as to create a belief of tts being abfolutely irreduei-ON RUPTURES, 63 ble, may now and then, by long refl and ab- flinence, become capable of being returned, I am under no doubt, for reafons which have already been mentioned : and not long ago, I had myfelf a patient in St. Bartholomew's holpital, who underwent the operation for the radical cure of a hydrocele, who had alfo an omental hernia, which I and fome others had often tried inefFe6lually to reduce : this during the time of his confinement to bed after the operation, went up of its own accord, and was ever afterwards kept there by a trufs. It fometimes happens in old compound rup- tures, that the piece of ititeftine is reducible, and that of the omentum is not; in which cafe we are told, that the portion of inteftine fhould be kept up by a trufs, whofe pad may be fo made, as not to prefs on the omentum while it reftrains the inteftine. I will not deny that this may now and then be pradlicable, but it is not often fo, and it ought to be particularly attended to, and very carefully watched, left a fmall piece of gut flip down, and being prefled on by the trufs •produce fatal mifchief, I have feen an omental rupture, in which the piece included in the fac had the knotty hardnefs.64 A TREATISE hardnefs, the pain, and every other fymptom. of a cancer. SECT. IV. Under the third divifion I reckon thofe ruptures which are reducible, but whofe re- duftion is difficult, and which are attended with pain and trouble and hazard. Difficulty of reduaion may be owing to fe- veral caufes. The fize of the piece of omen- tum, or the inflamed ftate of it; the quantity of inteftine and mefentery, an inflammation of the gut or its diftention by faeces or wind; or the fmallnefs of the aperture of the tendon through which the hernia paffes. But to whatever caufe it be owing, if the prolapfed body cannot be immediately replaced, and the patient fuffers pain, or is prevented thereby from going to ftool, it is called an incarcerated hernia, a ftrangulated hernia, or a hernia with ftriclure. The fymptoms are a fwelling in the groin or fcrotum refifting the impreffion of the fin-, gers: if the hernia be of the inteftinal kind, it is o-enerally painful to the touch, and the pain0N RUPTURES. 65 IS inereafed by coughing, fneezing, or {land- ing upright. Thefe are the very firfl fymp- toms, and if they are not reUeved, are foon followed by others, viz. a ficknefs at the fto- mach, a frequent reaching, or incHnation to vomit, a ftoppage of all difcharge per anum, attended with a frequent hard puife, and fome degree of fever. A patient in thefe eircurnfiances may be looked upon as in fome danger, and requiring immediate afliftance. A ftridure made on the prolapfed part of the gut, by the borders of the natural aperture in the tendon of the obhque mufcle, is the immediate caufe of thefe lymptoms which nothing can appeafe or remove, except what will take off that ilridlure. This can be accomplifhed only by removing the part fo bound from the tendi- nous opening; that is, by returning it back into the belly whence it came; or by dividing a part of the tendon itfelf: the former of thefe, when it can be pra£lifed, is always moft eli- gible, and makes our prefent fubjed. I have already obferved, that a portion of inteftine, while it is neither bound by any degree of ftridlure, nor affe6ted by inflamma- tion, will remain quiet in a hernial fac in the Vol. II. F fcrotuip,'66 A TREATISE fcrotum, and perform its proper office freely ■Slid perfe£lly; but the inftant either of the above-rtientioned accidents (particularly the former) happens, the cafe is altered; the paf- fage both of the aliment and f«ces is ftopped or interrupted; the periftaltic motion of the whole canal is difturbed or perverted; and the circulation of the blood, through the ftraitened portion of inteftine is fo impeded, that if the obftrudtion is not removed in time, a mortiE- ' cation muft follow. Every fymptom which attends an incar- cerated rupture depends on this caufe, and is juftly accountable for from it. The tumor, the pain, the tenfion of the belly, the naufea^ the vomiting, and the fuppreffion of ftools, are fo many efFeds produced by it, and removeable only by removing it. My prefent confideration being thofe rup- tures which are capable of being returned,. I am now to fpeak of the manner of attempting fuch reduction. The patient fliould be laid in a fupine pof- ture, with his trunk certainly as- low, if not lower than his thighs; the thigh on the dif- eafed fide fliould be fo elevated, as to contri- bute as much as poffible to the relaxation of theON RUPTt/RES. 67 the abdominal aperture; and then the furgeon grafping the lowef part of the turlior gently with his hand in fuch a manner as to keep the tefliicle from afcending, and the inteftine from defending, muft endeavour to procure the return of the latter through the ring, as it is vulgarly called, by gentle continued pref^ fure toward that opening. If tbe cafe'be a bubonocele, there will be no occafion for en- deavouring to grafp the tumor, but by conti- nued, moderate preflure on it with the fingersj to endeavour the return of the piece of gut. This may ferve for a general defcription of the method of performing this operation; but the exa6t manner of executing it is one of thofe manoeuvres which can be learnt only by obfervation and pradtice, and of which no verbal defcription can convey an adequate and perfed: idea: knowledge of the ftrudure, and fituation of the parts, will inftrua: any one how to go about it, and a little pradice will foon make him adroit. The pofture of the body and the difpofition of the lower limbs, may be made very affiftant in this operation, when the difficulty is con- fiderable; the nearer the pollure approaches F2; to68 A TREATISE I to what is commonly called ftandliig on the head, the better, as it caufes the whole packet of fmall inteftines to hang, as it were, by the ftrangulated portion, and may thereby difen- :gage it. A little time and pains fpent in this manner will frequently be attended with fuc- cefs, and obtain a return of the part; but if it Ihould not, and the handhng of it (which I muft repeat, ftiould always be gentle) be- comes painful, and very fatiguing to the pa- tient, we are advifed to defift a few hours, and try the efFed of other means. Thefe means are phlebotomy, glyfters, ca- thartics, the application of cataplafms, fomen- tations, embrocations, &c. Children, efpecially very young ones, bear the lofs of blood very ill, and are very apt to fwoon, if the quantity be at alt confiderable; if therefore fuch accident happens, the fur- geon Ihould embrace the opportunity which fuch general relaxation will afford him of re- ducing the rupture, efpecially as it gives him another advantage by .preventing the child from crying, and making refiftance. • Perhaps there is no difeafe affeaing the human body in which bleeding is found more eminently and immediately ferviceable than inON RUPTURES. 69 in this, and which therefore, if there are no particular circumftances in the conftitution prohibiting it, ought never to be omitted; but on the contrary, fhould be freely and largely repeated, if it appears at all neceliary.- A femicupium, or warm bath, will, by the general relaxation which it neceffarily pro- duces, be found frequently ferviceable. The ufe of warm fomentations, foft cata- plafms, and relaxing oily embrocations, are alfo advifed with a view to relax the tendon of the abdominal mufcle, and to render the return of the parts contained in ,the hernial fac eafy; but I am afraid that fuch kind of applications have in general been the occafion of much more mifchief than good. The effeft of them can hardly reach beyond the ikin and membrana cellularis, and may poffi4- bly, by relaxing them, take off fome fmall part of the pain which arifes from their dif- tention, but will feldom have any efFe£t on the immediate feat of the difeafe, the tendon of the oblique mufcle; the enlargement or re- laxation of which only can be of roateri^l fervice. I know that in this I differ from the ma- jority both of writers and praditioners, but F 2 having70 .A; TREATISE having (as I think) truth on my fide, I do again venture to fay, that I verily believe, that the confidence which has been placed in fuch kind of applications has deftroye4 many more lives than it has faved, A hernia, with ■painful ftridure, and ftoppage of ftools, is enp of thofe cafes, m which we can feldpm ftand ftill, even for a fliort fp^ce of time ; if we do not get forward, we generally go back- ward; and whatever does no good, if it be at all depended upon, certainly does harm, by otcafioning an irretrievable lofs of time : of this kind I take the cataplafm and embroca-. tion * to be ; while the former is applied^ or the latter ufed, no other more powerful means are made ufe of; and though it has the ap- pearance of doing fomething, yet I fear it is little more than fpecious trifling ; efpeciaily if the cafe b&at all prefling. - Very different have been the opinions of different people concerning the ufe of cathar- tic medicines; fome advifing them ffrenu- " In a very pompous modern book may be feen an operofe, expenfive procefs, for making an ointment, of a folution of gold, pearl, &c. to be ufed for affifting the redudHon of ftran- gulated inteftines, and which, when properly made, may pofli- bly be as ufeful as pomatum, ointment of elder, or any other greafy application. ' ^ ^ON RUPTURES. 71 oufly, Others placing no dependence on them at all. As different alfo have been the.opiT nions of thofe who do advife them, with re? gard to the kind of medicine proper on this occafion; fome prefcribing thofe of the lenient kind, fuch as Glauber's fait, infufum fasne, &c. others the more powerful or ponderous kind of remedies, fuch as Extrad:. Cathart. Jallap, Mercurius dulcis'', &c. I believe I may venture to fay that I have tried them all, but I cannot fay that I have fuch faith in any of them as to think very highly of them. With regard to the. former, viz. the lenient fort of purges, it is not often, that a patient in thefe circumftances can keep them upon his ftomach ; and even when they are not rejected by vomit, they very feldom have force fufficient to anfwer the end pro- pofed. The more ftimulating. ones are cer- tainly better calculated to excite the periftaltic motion of the inteftines, (the one thing to be aimed at) and thereby free the confined piece; '»The ingenious and learned Dr. Monro of Edinburgh, fays, that he has more than once reduced a'rupture of this kind by a fmart dofe of jallap and mercurius dulcis, when other metliods. have failed. The fame gentleman fays, he has feen the extei-* nal application of cold claret,'or fnow, inftead of a warm poul- tice, ufed with good fuccefs. ' F 4 but,7^ A TREATISE but, on the other hand, if they do not jfuc- ceed, they add to the fulnefs and tenfion of the belly, as well as to the heat and thirft. I would by no means be underftood to mean that I am abfolutely againft the ufe of cathartic medicines ; I only mean to fignify, that I have no great dependence on them, and that I think perlifting in the inefFeftual ufe of them often adds unncceflarily to the fufFering of the patient. But though I cannot fay that I have feen frequent benefit from the exhibition of cathar- tics by the mouth, yet I have often experi- enced the o-ood ariiino; from acrid, ftimulating; glyjfters, and fuppoiltories frequently repeat- ed ; particularly from the fmoke of tobacco -and from a compofition of fait, honey, and aloes, boiled to the proper confiftence of a fuppofitory. By thefe I have feen very alarm- ing ruptures returned, when they have been thought capable of being relieved by nothing but tjie chirurgical operation. e I cannot hplp thinking that the prefcnt machine:, which is ufed for the tobacco glyfter, might be confiderably improved, that is, might be made to throw in the fume in much greater quantity, and with more certainty. A pump is now made for tliis purpofe, which I have ufed very fuccefsfully. ThereON RUPTURES. it There is another method of endeavouring to obtain relief in this cafe, which has been propofed by few, and I hope practifed hy fewer (though I have feen two patients, upon whom it had been tried, and who were both deftroyed by it) : it is the making feve- ral punctures with a round needle through the tumid fcrotum into the gut, in order (as it is faid) to let out the air which is fuppofed to diftend the latter, and prevent its return. If this pradice was worth a ferioiis refutation, ^ many arguments, drawn from the nature both of the parts and of the diffeafe, might be pro- duced againft it; but it is really too abfurd to wafte either my own or the reader's time about it. There is no cifcumftance attending rup- tures with ftridure, i^i which more variety is found, than in the time which they will fafely admit to be fpent in their reduftion; fome have been fuccefsfully replaced at the end of eight or ten days, others have proved fatal in one. This difference may proceed from difference of conftitution and habit, or from fome particular circumftance in the dif- eafe itfelf; but let the caufe of it be what it' may, as it never can be abfolutely forefeen,74 A TREATISE it fhould never be trufted : the fooner a rup- ture is reduced, the fooner the patient is out ©f danger from the ftridure, and the fooner will he be rid of thofe fymptoms, which it has already occafioned. Recent hernias are in general more liable to ftridure than old ones, for reafons which are obvious from what has already been faid; but when old ones get into the fame circum- fiances, the fymptoms are much the fame ; though I think in general they are not alto- gether fo prefling, and the latter generally admit of more time to attempt redudion m. The fmaller the portion of inteftine is which is engaged, the greater the pain is, and the more haftily do the fymptonis advance. I have feen a bubonocele in a young woman prove fatal in lefs than a day, which had never been down before, and in which the portion of inteftine was fo fmall, as hardly to engage its whole canal. Omental ruptures in general are not fub- jed to bad fymptoms arifmg from ftriclure, though they will fometimes be painful and troublefome, from the conne6tion of the caul with the vifcera, as I have often feen. As this is an accident which they are all liable c to,ON RUPTURES. ^jj it to, they iliould never be fufFered to remaia down, if they are reducible; and that not only on thig account^ but alfo becaufe they render the patient always liable to the defcent of a piece of gut, In geueral they are more eafy of redu£lion than the inteftinal, and be^ ing not painful will admit of more free hand- ling, as well as more time to be fpent in the attempt*^. I have already mentioned the reafons why an omental rupture is fometimes incapable of being reduced, viz. adhefiori to the fides of the hernial fac, or fuch an alteration in the form of it, as makes it impoffible for it to pafs through the abdominal aperture. When this is truly the cafe, as is moft reafonable to fup-.- pofe when it refifts all proper attempts, there is no remedy but to fufpend the weight of it in a bag-trufs, and thereby render it as little troublelbme as poffible. Tliis is indeed all that can be done when the rupture is abfo- Kitely irreducible ; but in books will be found directions to leave an old omental hernia down, and fufpend it in a bao-, even thouo-h ^ Writers of good credit have given accounts of the worft fymptoms from a mere epiplocele ; in Dionis may be feen a cafe of this kind, in Garengeot, and others.76 A TREATISE it fliould be reducible, rather than return it into the belly, left it fhould lie there in a , ' lump, and make the patient uneafy. This is one of thofe maxims which writers receive from each other, and deliver down to pofte- rity, without inquiring into their propriety. It may in fome few particular cafes be right to do fo, but cannot be admitted as a general rule : furely it muft always be worth while to try how it will be when it is up, rather than be content with a method, which is hardly palliative, and which always may be produftive of new evil. When the parts are fairly reduced, the next confideration is, how to keep them from fall-- ing down again : this can only be done by a bandage, the pad of which muft make a con- ftant preffure againft the opening in the abdo- minal tendon, and thereby not only keep the crut or caul from pufiling out, but make the fides of the hernial fac approach each other a$ near as poftible. In the making and adjufting this kind of bandage, fome ingenuity is neceftary : if it be not fo made, and fo put on, as to do good, it will do harm : if it does not keep the inteftine up, the patient is much more liable to mif- chiefON RUPTURE^. 7^ chief with it than without it ; and it has often, bypreffing on the rupture while down, proved v^ery pernicious, in cafes where there has been no degree of ftri£lure from the ten- don. It therefore behoves every furgeon to fee that the trufs which he orders is well made, and properly applied, left all his pains fliould be baffled by the bad make, or injudi- cious application of this piece of machinery. If thefymptoms of pain, inflammation, &c. ran high before the parts were reduced, they will not always ceafe immediately after; and as the fymptoms which remain after the gut is returned, do in all probability proceed from its having been inflamed by the ftridlure, fuch remedies as are proper in that cafe ought to be made ufe of; the body fliould be kept open, and the diet and regimen fliould be low and fparing, while the leaft degree of tenfion or pain remain ; in fhort till all complaint is abfolutely removed from the abdomen, and the inteftines do their office freely, and with- out trouble. SECT. 1A tR£ATtSE5 SECT. V. I AM now come to the fourth divKioti^ under which I comprehended all thofe rup- tures, which are in fuch a ftate as to be irre- ducible by the mere hand, and in which a chi- ruro"ical operation is neceffary for the prefer- vation of the life of the patient. ImpradicabiHty of redudlion may be owing to many caufes, moft of which have already been recited; fuch are, alteration of the form of the parts contained in the hernial fac, large- nefs of their quantity, adhefions either to the fac, or to each other, or both, and a ftriaure made on the inteftine, by the borders of the aperture in the abdominal tendon : thefe are each of them caufes why ruptures are fome- times incapable of being returned back into the belly, and will require our confideration in their proper places; but in this it is my intention to fpeak only of the laft, it being that which calls moft immediately for relief,- which moft frequently requires the furgeon^s- knife. Whether the primary and original caufe of the mifchief arifing from this ftriaure, is illON RUPTURES. in the contained, or in the containing parts of ^ a rupture, I will not now ftay to inquire ; nor whethei- the ftridlure made by the tendon be a caufe, or an effed; but fliall confider the inteftine as fo engaged in it, as to be ren- dered incapable of being returned into the ca- vity of the belly (by the hand only) and fuf- fering in fuch manner, by being fo bound, as to produce a feries of bad fymptoms, and at laft, (if not relieved) death. This ftridure, which according to its dif- ferent degrees renders the redudtion of an in- teftinal hernia either difficult or impoffible, is according to fuch degrees produdive of what are called the fymptoms of a ftrangulated rup- ture, and which are more or lefs preffing, as they more or lefs intereft the life of the patient. i The earlieft of thefe fymptoms were related in the former fe6tion, as attendant on thofe ruptures which were reducible, though with difficulty, viz. tumor in the groin or fcrotum, attended with pain, not only in the part, but all over the belly, and creating a ficknefs and inclination to vomit, fuppreffion of ftools^ and fome degree of fever : thefe are the firfl fymptoms, and if they are not appeafed by,§9 A TREATISE the return of the mtefline, that is; if the at^ tempts made for this purpofe do not facceed^ they are foon exafperated; the ficknefs be- comes more tronblefome, the vomiting more frequentj the pain more intenfe, the tenfion of the belly greater, the fever higher, and a s-eneral reftleffiiefs comes on, which is very terrible to bear. When this is the ftate of, the patient, no time is to be loft; a very little delay is now of the utmoft confeqnence, and if the one fingle remedy which the difeafe is now capable of be not admitiiftered immedi- ately, it will generally baffle every other at- tempt. This remedy is the operation, where- by the 'parts engaged in the ftriclure may be fet free. If this be not now performed, the yomitmg- is foon exchanged for a convulfive hiccough, and a frequent gulping up of bili- ous matter ; the tenfion of the belly, the reft- leflhefs and fever having been confiderably in- creafed for a few hours, the patient fuddenly becomes perfeftly eafy, the belly fubfides, the pulfe from having been hard, full, and fre- quent, becomes low, languid, and generally interrupted; and the fkin, efpecially that of the limbs, cold' and moift; the eyes have now a languor and a glaffinefs, a lack-luftre notON kUPTU|LES. 8l not eafy to be defcribed; the tumor of the part difappears, and the Ikia covering it fome- times changes its natural colour for a livid hu6; but whether it keeps of lofes its colour, it has an emphyfematous feel, a crepitus to the touch, which will eafily be conceived by all who have attended to it, but is not fo eafy td Convey an idea of by words: this crepitus is the too fufe indicator of gangrenous mif- chief within. In this ftate, the gut eithef goes up fpontaneoufly, or is returned with the fmalleft degree of preflUre: a difcharge is made by ftool, and the patient is generally much pleafed at the eafe he finds ; but this pleafure is of fhort duration, for the hiccough and the coldfweats continuing and increafins:, with the addition of fpafniodic rigors and fub- fultus tendinuni, the tragedy foon finifhes. Thefe are the fymptoms of an incurcerated hernia^ this their general progfefs, and their too frequent event. The firft clafs of them imply fome degree of hlzard, but are often capable of being relieved without the ufe of the knife; the latter frequently require it, and very often prove fatal by the negle(£l, or too late application of it. Vol. II. G PerhapsSi A tREATlSE Perhaps there is hot in the practice of tut'^ gery a poiat. which requires more judgment, firmnefs, or delicacy, than to determine the precife time, beyond which this operation Ihould not be deferred, and for a furgeon to condud himfelf fo as to induce a patient to fubmit to it early enough for his prefervation. The time in which a piece of gut will become g-an^renous from ftri£lure, or Sfet into a ftate approaching, to that of a gangrene, is extreme- ly uncertain, and depends on circumftanccs which no man can forefee. There have been feveral inftances of ruptures, attended by preff- ing fymptoms of ftrifture, which have been fafely returned by the hand only, at the end of feveral days; or the operation having been performed at the fame difiance of time, the parts have been found found or unhurt: on .,the other hand, there are many inftances pro* ducible, of the inteftirie having been with great difficulty replaced, Qt of its returning, lua fponte, from ieing mortified, or (the operation having been fubmitted to) of its having been found in fuch ftate by the ope- rator, at the end of not many hours. I have myfelf feen a fmall portion of thp inteftine become perfectly gangrenous, in one day 2^nd night from its firft expulfion. The0 bN RUPTl^RESi 8j ' • ^Ke 'directions which are given to us by Writers, are not to be trufted without much circumfpedlion; the figns or marks which they in general regard as proofs of the proper time for operating, are moft frequently proofs that the time is juft elapfed^ and that, inftead of waiting for the arrival of fuch fymptoms, we fhould have prevented them. On, the other hand, to propofe an operation of fo much confequence, before it fhall be thought abfolutely neceffary, may admit of fuch mif- Gonftru6lion, as no man would wifh to have put upon his condu<5l. Indeed I do not know any fituation, into which a judicious and prudent man c:an be put, in which it will be- hove hirii to be more wary and CircumfpeCt:, more delicate, or more fteady* The two principal circumflahces which have meft contributed to the infrequency of performing this operation, are, a dread of great hazard from the operation itfelf, con- fidered abftraftedly, and a fear of bringing a difgrace upon it, by haEving performed it too latej ne occidijfe^ 'niji fervajfet^ videretUr*, The firft of thefe is vaftly greater than it ought to be, and is rrioft frequently the caufe G 2 of^4 A TR'EATISE of the latter; fo that if the one can juftly be leffened, the other will not be fo likely to happen.■ That the operation confidered fimply 15 not void of hazard, every man who knows any thing of the nature of wounds in membranous and tendinous parts, muftacknowledge; they are certainly fubje£l to fever and inflamma- tion, are diflScult and flow of digefl:ion, and in fome particular habits are apt to become gangrenous J but that they are neceflarily, or even moft frequently hazardous, daily and manifold experience contradids. One evil is very frequently the parent of others. By being afraid of incurring that de- ,gree of hazard which is thought to attend the operation merely, the generaUty of people neither attend to, nor embrace the moft pro- per time for the fafe performance of it; or that in which its danger mufl: be neceflarily leafl:, becaufe leafl: combined with that which may arife from the fl:ate of the parts within ; a fl:ate even at firfl: not abfolutely fafe, but which all delay beyond a certain time mufl: hourly increafe the hazard o£j If I might prefume to give my opinion on this fubjea, I fliould fay,^ that the operation oughtON RUPTURES. ought always to be performed as foon as pof- fible after it appears that all rational attempts, by large and free bleeding, the warm batji,. glyfters, &c." are found to be inefFe£lual, or. that the. fymptoms rather increafe than de- creafe, while fuch means are made ufe of, and that the^ handling neceflary for redudliori becomes more and more painful; for if it be delayed until the inflammation has attained a certain height, tkough the parts upon ^ being ^ Perhaps I may be thought fomewhat lingular, but from what I have feen, I am much inclined to believe, that whea the parts are very painful to the touch, and the fcrotum large, and much upon the ftrefs, more harm is generally done by the manual attempts for reduftion, than good. In this ftate, the great diftention of the intelline renders it very incompfeflible, and very little likely to be returned through the tendinous aperture by mere force, (for fuch it is, in whatever degree it be ufed) and either a bri(k irritating purge, or a very ftimu- lating glyfter, (particularly the tobacco-fmoke) are more likel}', by exciting the perillaltic motion, to difentangle it, than even the moll judicious method of handling it. And in cafes where fuch remedies have been previoufly ufed, I verily believe the fudden redu^ion of thepiege of gut is often more owing to their efFeft than to that of the hand. But I muft de- lire that this may be rightly underftood, and not miftaken for a dilTuafive againft manual attempts for reduftion; I only mean, that there is fuch a ftate of an inc'arcerated inteftine, (which ftate I havejuftdefcribed) In which, from its fize, inflamma- tion, diftention, &c. compreflion by the hand is very little likely to procure its return,;and very likely, if it does ngt dp fo, to do coi)fiderable mifchief. G 3 laidI 8^ 'A TREATISE laid open arc not found quite gangrenous^ thafe is no proof that the want of fuccefs muft be fet to the account of the operation merely, That ftate of inflamrnation, either of the in- teftine or of the hernial fac, which is juft not gangrenous, is no ftate of fafety, nor are we fure that removing the ftridure will at this tii^e appeafe the fymptoms, or abate the ha- 2aVd :—far from it: fuch an alteration may have already been made in the inteftine that a mortification will enfue, though it be fet free and returned into the belly, A ligature iieed jiot be continued round any part of a living animal, until it/becomes quite gangrenous, in order to produce its deftruftion, There is a certain point of time, in which the circula- tion is fo prevented, that the fame event will follow, though the ligature be then removed, It4s indeed a nice and no very eafy matter to fihd'tiife pr^eife time; but this difficulty and uncertainty are the ftrongeft, reafoiis for an- ticipating rather thaji waiting for it j for when in the prefent cafe fuch time arrives, or is nq^rly arrived, the rifqueof the operation be. comes complicated with that arifing from the difeafed ftate of the parts within, and the gha^ce of fuccefs is thereby much leflbned. A mortificationON RUPTURES. Sy G 4 beginning A mortificatiGH of tjie inteftine is not abfd- lutely, neceffarily, and always fatal; but the iiii^ances of thofe patients who have efcaped with life in thefe circiimftances are fo vciy few, that it may fairly be reckoned among the deadly difeafes. If the mortified jmt re- tufns back into the belly, upon the gangrene taking poffeflion of the part which was bound, it will moft probably prove fatal; and though there have undoubtedly been inftances of peo- ple who have furvived the operation, thou^ it has been delayed till the parts have been in fuch condition, yet they are fo veiy rare, that they are hardly fufficient to found a reafon- able expeclation upon; and of the very few who have thus efcaped, the majority have been obliged to hold Hfe upon terms which, have been very fatiguing and dilagreeable. When the operation fhail be thought ne- ceffary, the manner of performing it is as follows: The pubes and groin having been clean fhaved, the patient muft be laid on his back, on a table of convenient height, with his legs hanging eafily over the end of it; then with a ftraight diffeding knife an incifion mufl be made through the Ikin and membrana adipofa,"SB - A TREATISE beginning juft above the plade where the In" teftine pafles out from the belly, and con-^ tinning it quite down to the lower part of the fcrotum. Upon dividing the adipofe mem- brane, there generally appear a few fmall, diftincl, tendinous kind of bands, which lie clofe upon the hernial fac, which muft he di^- vided alfo, as well as the fac: the fame knife ,with which the incifion through the ikin was made will execute this, which ihould be done with a fteady hand and great caution, it be?- ing of very different degrees of thicknefs in different cafes : in the bubonocele, or that which is confined to the groin, the fac is moft frequently thin, confequently more eafily divided, and requires greater attentio4 in the operator : in the ofcheocele, or fcrotal hejnia, if it be recent, the fac is ufually thin alfo; if ancient, it is fometimes of confiderable thicknefs, but whatever be the fl:ate of it, if the operator has any doubt, let him, as foon as he has made a fmall pundliure in what ap- pears to him to be the hernial fac, endeavour to introduce a probe into it; this will give •him the neceflary fatisfadion ; for if he has liot pierced the fac, the probe will be flop^ ped by the cells of the common membrane, and,ON RUPTURES. 98 and, if he has, it will pafs in without any obftruftion. The place to make the incifion in the hernial fac is about an inch and half below the flriilure, and the opening need not be larger than jufl: to admit the end of the operator's fore-finger, which, confidering the great dilatability of thefe membranes, will be a very fmall one ; the fore-finger intro- duced into this aperture, is the beft of all di- rectors, and upon that a narrow-bladed, curved knife, with a bold probe point, will be the only inftrument necelTary to finifh the oper- ation. With this knife on the finger, (the point of the former being always fliort of the extremity of the latter) the fac muft be di- vided quite tip to the opening in the tendon, and down to the bottom of the fcrotum. Upon the firfl: divifion of the fac, a fluid generally rufhes out, which fluid is difl=erent in quantity, colour, and confiftence, accord- ing to the date, fize, and fome other circum- ftances attending the rupture. This fluid has fometimes been mentioned as a defence againft an accident from the knife, in the firfl: divifion of the hernial fac, as if it kept the intefl:ine at fuch a difliance, as thereby to Jeflcn the hazard qf its being wounded;5?0 A TRJiATISB, wounded; • but this is a very fallacious c'itt cumftance, and never to be trufted; the fecu- rity of this operation depends entiiely on a competent knowledge of the parts, a fteady hand, and an attentive eye. Different operators, efpeciaHy among thp French, have propofed a number of different ihftruments for the fafe performance of this incifiori; the biftouri cachee^ the biftouri her- jiiare, the winged director, the blunt fcifl'ors, &c. §cc. all which are calculated for the defence and, prefetvation of the inteftine, in the divifion of the fac and tendon; but who- ever will make ufe of the two knives juft mentioned will find that he will never ftand jn need of any other iuftrument, and that he will with them be able to perforip, the oper- ^tioji with more eafe to himfelf, with lefs ha- zard tQ his. patient, and with more'' apparent dexterity, than with any other whatever. , The « They who are not accuftomed tq perform 6p^ratIons of ^ch confeq^uence as this is, are apt, from timidity, to be toQ fparing in making their external incifjon, hy which means they add confjderably to their own embarralTment, and to the fatigue of the patient. A free divifion of the hernial fac and fcrotum, downwards, gives room for the more eafy .admiffion of the fin- ger into the ftridlive, in order to divide it, and affords an op^ portunity of handling the m^Rih^ or iajnentum more gently, asON RUPTURES. The fac being laid open, the inteftine ge^ ^erally puftie^ pnt ixrimediately, (unlefs it i$ confined, by being inveloped in the omentum) and appears to be much more in quantity than it feemed to be, while it was confined within the fcrotum. This is the time to try whether by gently drawing out a little more of the gut, its bulk cannot be fp reduced as to enable the furgeon to retura it back into the belly, without di- viding the tendon. In the cafe of the protru- iion of'a very fmall piece of inteftine it has been found pi-afticable, the difficulty of re- well as more properly, in order' to return them into the belly, both which neceffary parts of the operation are much impeded by a fmall incifion. As therefore no pofllble advantage can arife from a fmall wound, but pij the contrary it may be attended with great in- convenience both to the patient and furgeon; I would take the' liberty of advifmg, when fuch an opening is made in the hernial fac as wilj admit the operator's fore-finger, and upon it his knife, that he immediately divide the fac and fcrotum down to the bottom.' It is t^ue, that upon fuch divifion the quantity of inteftine will feem to be increafed, and an ignorant by-ftander jnay be alarmed at this fallacious appearance, which is produ- ced inerely by the confined comprefled gut being fet free, and not by the addition of any more. The advantage which will arife to the pperator, and confequently to the patient, from fuch divifion, is real and great, it will enable the former to finifh his work with freedom^ and fpare the letter a great deal tifpain, turning93 A TREATISE 6 t^^s turning a large portion arifing principally from the quantity of mefentery engaged in the flri£lure; and, indeed, though it may now and then happen that a fmall piece of gut may be returnable without a divifion of the tendon, yet if it cannot be very eafily accom- plifhed, it had better not be attempted, fince in the ftate in which this part muft neceflarily be to require the operation thus far, any de- gree of force ufed to it will, mofl probably, be more prejudicial and ha^^ardous than the j-eft of it, if performed properly with a knife. An attention to the natural ftrudure, figure, and diredtion of the pai'ts will give us the beft information how to make the divifion of tlie ftridure to the beft purpofe, and with the Jeaft hazard. The tendon of the obliquus defcendens mufcle runs in an oblique diredlion from above downward, and the natural opening which is always found in it, and through which the hernia pafles, is made by a kind of feparation pfthe fibres'from each other; the direaion of this opening is th^ifame as that of the tendon, that is, obliquely downward, from the os ilion to the. os pubis; the knife, therefore ihculd be fo managed, as rather to continueON RUPTURES. this reparation, than to make any tranfverfc fedion; its edge Ihould be applied to the fu- perior and pofterior part of the oval, and car- ried upward, and obliquely backward, until a fufficient opening is made to ferve the pur- pofe; by this means the fibres of the tendon will be rather feparated from each other than cut, and in all probability the rifque arifing from the incifion will be leflened. It is generally advifed to make the divifion. of the ftri(5lure free and large, as well to per- mit the ealy return of the parts, as to prevent the inconvenience which it is fuppofed will be more likely to attend a fmall wound in a tendinous body than a large one: the firft in- tention, the eafy return of the inteftine, fliould certainly be fulfilled, and therefore the inci- fion ought always to be large enough for that purpofe, and to afford an opportunity of pafT- ing the end of the finger round on the infide, in cafe of any adhefion; but as too large an opening may be attended with very ill confe- quence, it ought alfo to be guarded againft. In the majority of cafes, a fmall incifion will be found fufficient for the purpofe of reduc- tion; and where the parts are free from adhe- fion, and the fafe return of them is the only objed94- A treaties; obje£i of attentioni a fmall divifion made lit tht ftiatiner already dire6led is not liable to Sny more pain and trouble than a large one^ and may therefore be fafely trufted. Among the authors who write from ejach other, and not from pradic'e, are to be found accounts of cafes, in which the tendon only has been divided, and not the hernial fac^ which latter has been returned through the enlarged opening, with its contents enclosed; and the fame writers are very particular in their diredions how to accomplifh this oper- ation. If it was praaicable, (which the uni-« verfal adhefion of the fac with the cellular membrane of the fpermatic chord renders ab- folutely not fo) there; would be Ml feverall material obje£lions to the doing it; which oh- jeaions, as the thing is not capable of being executed, it is needlefs to mention. TnotJGH I am perfeaiy fatisfied that the cafe of a ftrangulatcd hernia is moft frequently as I have reprefented it, viz. that the diforder in the inteftine is originally produced by the flridure made on it by the borders of the ten- dinous opening of the abdominal mufcle, and thatON RUPTURES. ^1 tliat the gut is in general perfedly found, and free from difeafe, before it becomes eneao-ed in fuch ftrldure, yet I think it right to ac-^ quaint the uninformed reader, that it has been and ftill is the opinion of fome very ingenious men, that the difeafe is originally in the gut, and that the ftridture is an accident arifins: from the inflammation and diftention of it; or in other words, that the inteftine is firfi inflamed, and by means of the alteration pro* duced by fuch inflammation, becomes too large for the tendinous aperture, which there- fore makes a ftridture on it, and which, they think, is the reafon why the chirurgical oper* ation is often unfuccefsful. For my own part I cannot think that either ^he fa£l, or the inference is in general true* - An inflammation moft certainly may, and frequently does, attack any part of the intef- tinal canal, and confequently that part of it which happens to be included within a her- nial fac may accidentally be fo affeded: when this is the cafe, the fwelling and diftention. which naturally and necelTarily attend an in- flammation of the gut, will render it lefs ca- pable pr perhaps quite incapable of repaifmg the opening in the abdominal tendon, which tendon96 A TREATISE tenddn may therefore rriake fuch ftri<fl:ure on the part fo difeafed, as greatly to heighten the firft fymptoms, and bring on ftill worfe; and, when this happens, the operation will alfo be' lefs likely to be fuccefsful, it being calculated for the relief of only fuch fymptoms as arife from a piece of inteftine (in other refpeds found and free from difeafe) being fo bound by the faid tendon, as to have its periftaltic motion, and the circulation of the blood through it, impeded or flopped; whereas the other complaint, confifting primarily and ori- ginally in an inflammation of the gut itfelf, the mere removal of it from ftridure is not, nor can be, equal to the cure of the difeafe. Thit the cafe is a poiftble one I make no doubt, having once or twice fecn it in old ruptures; but it is a very rare one, and by no means to be admitted either as a proof that ' the mifchief done to the inteftine, in the ge- nerality of ftrangulated ruptures, does not moft frequently proceed from the ftriaure made by the tendon, or a diffuafive from per- forming an operation, whenever it would otherwife be thought neceffary. It is not however a mere fpeculative point, it is really a matter of confequence, and ought toON Rt/PTURES; P7 to be attended to by all thofe who have it in their power to make frequent obfervations on fuch fubjefts; for on the truth or falfehood of this doctrine depend a few very material points in practice, fome of which ought fo to influence a furgeon's condud as to make it confiderably different in one cafe from what it (hould be in the other. Very bad fjmptoms, fuch as pain, tenfion of the belly, ficknefs, vomiting, hiccough, fever, and fupprelfion of ftools, are often pro- duced in a very fhort fpace of time by the defcent of a piece of gut, upon fome exertion of ftrength in perfons who were immediately before fuch accident at perfed eafe, and free from all complaints relative to the belly: if the difeafe be not difcovered, -pr. iif our at- tempts to reduce the inteftine are not fucceff- ful, thefe fymptoms are heightened, and the patient often dies of a mortification ; if we do fucceed in the timely reduaion, all thefe terrible lymptoms often ceafe inftantaneoufly, and the patient feels neither pain nor inconvenience of any kind from that moment. Would this moft probably and moft frequently happen, if the difeafe was generally in the inteftine, and the ftridure of the tendon merely accidental ? Vol. it. H In9$ A TREATISE In that kind of difeafe of the inteftinal tube, which is laid to be produced by inflam- mation, and thought to be attended with fpafmodic ftrifture, or contradion of its muf- Ctilar fibres, there is fuch an alteration made in its periftaltic motion, and fuch impediment in the execution of its principal offices, that what is taken into the ftomach is rejedted by vomit, and the f^ces are not protruded through the colon and redum, the belly is tight and painful, thelkin hot, the pulfe quick and hard, and the patient feels a reftleflhefs and anxiety which are. very difagreeabk: this is one of thofe cafes which rec^uire immediate afliftance, and will admit of no delay, the progrefs of the fymptoms from bad to worfe is generally very rapid, and if the difeafe be not foon fubdued, the patient dies. Free and yepeated evacuation by phlebotomy and lenient purges, the tffe of a femicupinm, a warm bath, glyfters, and fometimea brilk cathar- tics, joined with opiumy are the remedies ge- nerally prefcribed, and if made ufe of in time arc often fuccefsful, but if negleded, the cafe mofl: frequently ends ill. .It is very true that the fame fymptoms oc- cur in a ftrangulated hernia; but if that herniiV bet|N Rt/PtURES. be f^ducible, they generally ceafe upoii fuch redu^lion, nor does the ' patient want lany other affiflance thau what is neceflary to prevent a new defcent of the gut: in this refpedl therefore the two difeafes dif- fer very materially; in the latter, nature ftands in need of no farther affiftanee from art, but as foon as the manual operation iS performed, returns to the execution of her natural fun6lions; in the form.er, fhe is found fo very infufficient toward aflifting herfelf, that it .'feems to. be one of the few cafes, in which medical affiftance can hardly ever be difpcnfed with. . , ,J*Jow if the bad fymptoms attending an ir- reduced rupture were primarily owing to an inflammation of the intefline within itj and that the tendinous aperture made a ftri^lure on it,, oilly in eonfequence of the diftentioii of the gut; allowing this ftri(^lure to^ aggra- vate the. complaint confiderably, yet the di- vilion of it, or the redua:ioa.of the iriteftine, can never be fuppofed to do more than alle- viate or remove fuch aggravation; the origi- nal inflammation of the gut muft fliill i-eriiairi^ nor can it be fuppofed -to be leffened by the inte-ftine having been girt tight by the teri- don; and yet, as I have juft now obferved, we H i veryiOO A TREATISE very rarely (at leaft in ruptures that arfe not of ancient date) meet with any trouble or* complaint after reduction is timely and com-- pletely made, and the inteftlne returned into the belly in a found ftate; the vomiting mofl frequently ceafes immediately, or in a very fiiort fpaceoftime^ a difcharge is made by ftool, the tenfion of the belly goes off, and though the patient is not always inftantane- oufly well, in cafes where the fymptoms kave been very threatening, yet all fuch com- plaints as proceeded from an obftrudlion to the execution of the proper offices of the in- teftinal canal, generally difappearimmediatelyV " Fromr the nature and progrefs of the fymp- toms in!'2t miferere (as it is called,) from the extreme' pain of the firfl attack, from the perfeft eafe a little while before death, and frorft the mortihed appearance of the intef- tines iffter fuch event, I think it is moft pro- bable, that if we could have an opportunity of feeing the inteftine during thefirft part of this complaint, we (hould fmd all the appearances of inflammation ; whereas in many of thofe upon whom the operation for the bubonocele is fuccefsfully and timely performed, this is not the cafe; the inteftine feldom bears marks of high inflammation, unlefs the operation has beenI ON RUPTURES. jqj been long delayed, nor do the fymptoms of fuch complaint ufually attend afterward; the mortified part often does not exceed an inch, or an inch and half in length, and is almoll always confined to that part of the gut which is on the outfide of the tendinous opening, all ivithin the belly being found and fair. To which may be added this circumftance, that when the parts contained in a hernial fac be- come mortified by the delay of the operation, the fac itfelf, (which has no immediate con- neaion with the inteftine, or its velTels) the cellular membrane covering it, nay the Ikin is often found in the fame ftate. Thefe are my principal reafons for believ^ ing that the mere ftriaure made by the ten^ don IS, in the generahty of incarcerated rup- tures, not only a fufficient, but the primary, and indeed the fole caufe of all the fymptoms, and all the mifchief; and therefore I muft alfo be pf opinion, ■ that whoever neglects to perform, or at leaft to propofe the operation, when he finds redudlion imprafticable, and the fymptoms preffing, does in fome meafurc contribute .to the deftruaion of his patient On " Indeed, though we Ihould fuppofe the cafe to be as thofe fientleaien have reprefentcd it. viz. that the complaint beginsS03 ~ A TREATISE On the other hand, I am convinced by fome inftances which I have met M^ith, (and which one time or other I hope to be able to prefent to the pubhc, in a collection with many Others) that th§ opinion has fome foundation in truth, and that perfons labouring under old ruptures, which have been long in the fcrotum without giving any trouble, in which the quantity of inteftine is often very large, the tendinous aperture much dilated, and the hernial fac thick and firm, are thofe to whorn this misfortune h^s happened, and who in- deed, if their cafe be duly confidered, will be found moft liable to it; there being no rea- fon in nature why that part of the inteftine which is contained in fuch a hernia, ftiould not be fubje£t to every complaint, or difeafe, to which every other part of that canal is in the inteftine, and that the ftrifture made by the tendon is not a primary caufe, but an efFeft of the diieafe, I do not fee how we can avoid propofmg the operation; for whether the increafed fize of the gut be owing to the inflammation, which renders it too large to pafs the abdominal opening, or whether \t be the mere efFeft of ftrifture made by the tendon, in either cafe it will bind equally, and the event muft be .exaftly th^, lame, as far at leaft as the ftrifture has to do with it: for when the inteftine is inflamed, whether fuch inflammation preceded or fucceeded the confinement of it by the tendinous opening, ^he fymptoms can never be appeafed, but by the releafe of the, gut from its confinement. • ^' ' ■ ■ liable :ON RUPTURES. 103 fidble: and this opihion I am more confirmed in, by having met with more than one fub- je£t with fuch old ruptures, who have had ail the lymptoms of a ftrangulation, and in whom, I am fure, there was no ftrifture made by the tendon, though the gut remain- ed in the fcrotum. Although 1 have through the courfe of this feftion repeatedly recommended the early performance of the operation, yet I mufl de- fire not to be mifunderftood, as if I meant to advife it before proper attempts had been made for reduction, or the fymptoms become alarming ; much lefs that I would propofe it as, a means to obtain a radical cure in thofe ruptures which are returnable by the hand merely ; a thing boafled of, and praftifed by pretenders, but not to be thought of by any man who has either judgment, humanity, or honefty. The only intent of it fliould be to preferve life, by refcuing the patient from the hazard of mortification, likely to enfue from the flrifture; and though I have preffed it with fuch view, and in fuch circumftances, and think it ought always to be done, yet 1 fhould be very forry to have it thought that 1 encou- H 4 rag^itlI04 A TREATISE raged the performance of it wantonly, or un- neceffarily, which muft be the cafe, when- ever it is done with any other intention. Confidered as a means to obtain a perfect or radical cure, or to prevent the neceffity of wearing a trufs, every man at all converfant with thefe things knows, that it moft frequent- ly fails of procuring that end, and thatmoft of thofe people who have been obhged to fub- mit to it for the prefervation of their lives, have alfo been obliged to wear a bandage ever afterwards, to prevent the inteftine from flipping down behind the cicatrix into the groin. In fhort, though the danger from the oper- ation, when performed in time, is in my opi- nion never to be mentioned with that which muft arife from the ftriaure, if negleaed, yet fuch operation never ought to be attempted but with a view to prevent the impending ill efFeas of fuch ftriaure, and will not ever (I dare believe) be put in praftice with any other intention, by any fair or judicious prac- titioner, by any man who has the leaft regard for his own charafter, his fellow-creature's fenfations, or for any thing but money'. The e Perhaps it may appear extraordinary, but this neccffarily fevere operation has, by fome of our modern quacks, been re- commenued.ON RUPTURES. The fac and ^ridliire being laid open and divided, the contained parts come into view, and according to ^he different circumftances - of the rupture and of the patient, will be found in different ftates, and require different treatment. Thefc ftates are reducible to three general heads, that is, the contained parts will be found, either in a found, healthy, loofe, un- conneded ftate, and fit for immediate reduc- tion ; or in a found ftate, but, from fome par- ticular circumftances, incap^ible of being im- mediately replaced ; or in an unfound, dif- eafed ilate, and requiring to be treated ac- cordingly. If the rupture confifts of a piece of intef- tine only, and that neither mortified nor ad- hprent, the fooner it is returned the better^ and the more gently it is handled for reduc- tion, the better alfo. commended, and even praftifed, for the cure of omental her- nias : more than one perfon has loll his life, that is, has been murdered in the attempt; but that Teems to be a circumftance of fmall importance in the minds of thefe operators, nor does it at all prevent the credulous part of mankind from trufting <hem ; though one would imagine that much ftronger proofs, either of the judgment, humanity, or honefty of fuch prafti- Jjoners were not requifitc. ■ . IfI06 ,A TREATISE If the inteftine be accompanied with a por- tion of omentum, the latter (if in a proper ftate) fliould be returned firft. In returning the inteftine, care fliould be taken to endeavour to put in that part firft which came out laft, other wife the gut will be doubled on itfelf, and the difficulty and trouble be thereby much increafed ; and in making the redu6lion, the fingers fhould be applied to that part of the intefline which is conneded with the mefentery, rather than its convex part, as it will both ferve the pur- pofe better, and be lefs likely to do mifchief. While the redu£^:ion is making, the leg and thigh on the ruptured fide fhould be kept ele^ vated, as fuch pofition of the limb wijl much facilitate the return of the parts. Long confinement in the fcrotum will, in fome people, produce flight adhefigtis, by llender filaments, which are generally very eafily feparated by the finger, or divided by a knife, or fcilTors, whether the adhefions be of the parts of the intefline inter fe, or to the hernial fac. If the adhefion be of the former kind, and fuch as proves very difficult to fepa- "rate, it will be better to return the gut into the belly as it is, than to run the rifkof pror 4 ducingON RUPTURES. - f^y tlucing an inflammation by ufing force; if it be of the latter, that is, if the connedlion be with the lac, there can be no hazard in wounding that, and therefore'it may be made free with. It has been faid by fome writers, that if the piece of omentum be fo very adherent that the furgeon does not chufe to feparate it, that it may very fafely be left, that it will £rft fuppurate and then fhrink, and very little re- tard the healing of the fore. What experience the gentlemen who talk in this manner may have had of this kind of cafe, I know not; bat I never yet have feen any, in which it could polfibly be thought neceffary to leave the pa- tient in fuch circumftances, or in which an attachment of the omentum was incapable of being fet free, either by differing its adhe- iions, or retrenching a part of it. The prolapfed part being replaced, the next objea of confideration is the hernial fac: this, if large, thick and hard, will prove flow, and difficult of digeftion, render the edges of the fore tumid and painful, and often retard ^ cure confiderably, by producing troublefome ^bfcefles in the *fcrotum. A confiderable part of it may very Mdy andA TREATISE 8 It ' and properly be removed; no part of it is of any confequence except the pofterior, or that with which the fpermatlc veflels are con- ne6:ed; all the reft being loofe, by means of the cellular membrane, is therefore very eaiilv feparable, and had therefore better be removed than left removal of part of the fac might have been right whai the pracflice was to fill the cavity with dreflings, which induced a neceflity for the membranous fac to flough, but was very con- trary to Mr. Pott's pradice in the latter part of his life; and if , he had lived to produce a new edition of this treatife, as he had projeiSled, 1 have no doubt but that this paflage would have been altered- The method which we have long ufed, and which Mr. Pott himfelf praijlifed is this; when the contents of the fac are returned into the abdomen, the fides of the fcrotum are brought together, by which means the parts of the divided fac are alfo brought into contaft, a large armed needle is then palTed through the upper-part of the fcrotum near to the abdominal ring, and made to dip down fo as to pafs through the fides of the fac, but by no means fo deep as to run any rifk of including, or even injuring in the fmalleli degree the fpermatic vefTels, by which mode the objeftion in the paragraph which follows in the text, is done away; the ligature is then to be tied moderately faft, which makes a powerful barrier againft the reprotrufion of the inteftine ; two or three Hitches, according to the fize of the incifion, are then to be made through the fidcs of the divided fcrotum; there is no neceflity for thefe to pafs through the fac, as the only intention of them is to keep the parts together, fo as to prevent the expofure of the fac, by which means no digcllion of it will take place, but the parts will coalefce, and generally heal by the flrft intention. E •ON ^lUPTURES, 109 It has been propofed by theoretic writers to pafs a hgature round the upper part of the neck of the fac, in order as it is faid to pro- cure the union of its fides, and thereby more certainly to prevent the future defcent of any thing from the belly; but to this there are many objections: the principal of which are, that if the ligature was not made flrid, it could ferve no purpofe; and if it was, it would be very likely to injure the fpermatic chord, if included in it ; by preventing part of the difcharge, it might alfo occafion very troublefome fymptoms, and, upon the whole, • is . by no means advifable. It has alfo been fuppofed, that the inteftine may be found fo inherent as not to admit of being fet free; and in this cafe it has been ad- vifed to remove the ftridure, by dividing the lac and the tendon, and then to leave the parts loofe. This is mentioned by many writers of eminence, and therefore I have taken no- tice of it, though it is a kind of cafe which, I muft own, I have never feen, nor do I fup- pofe that I ever fhall. I have feen the intef- tmes very firmly adherent to each other, to the fac, to the omentum, and to the tefticle - but never in fuch a ftate of adhefion, as to be incapabletlO A TREATISE incapable of bsing returned. The adhefioii of the parts of the inteftine inter fe, are moft frequently eafily feparated; but if they fhould not, flill thefe are no hindrance to the eut being returned; and if the caul be fo con- nedted as to prove troublefome to detach, it may with great-fafety be cut off; fo that the connexion here meant muft be of the intef- tine with the' hernial fac: of thefe two parts we are interefted only for the prefervation of one, and may without hazard make free with the other; the feparation may indeed be tedi- ous, and fometimes difficult, but let the diffi- culty or trouble be what they may, the fepa- ration muft be accomphlhed, it being abfurd to think of leaving a piece of inteftine loofe, in the divided fcrotum, which, from the re- moval of the fi:ri6lure above, will be liable to be increafed in quantity, fi-om every un- guarded motion, and fubjeft to all the incon- veniencies which the influence of the air muff; neceifarily produce on fuch tender parts ; not to mention the great difficulty of managing the fore in this ftate, and the pain and; other bad fymptoms, which muft arife from the daily Imcovering the inteftine. Any trouble, there- fore-, which may attend the feparation, muft beON RUPTURES. m be fubmitted to, rather than to follow this Grange advice, which indeed the writers who give feem not to irnderftand ; for to leave the parts as they were found, and as they diredj is impoffible; they were found contained in a hernial fac, and in the fcrotum, defended from the air, and in fome degree limited as to quantity, both by the ftridure above, and the fac below; the neceflary operation has re- moved that flridure, divided the fac and fcro- tum, and fet all loofe and free, and therefore if the inteftine be not returned into the belly, and kept there, the qqantity which may fall out may be fo large as to produce the moft fatal confequences, notwithftanding any at- tachments which fome part of the canal may: have contraded. SECT. VI. Hitherto the parts compofing a rupture have been confidered as difplaced, as inflamed, as having contrafted unnatural connexions' and adhefions, but being ftill fo unhurt in their texture as to remain found, within the of the circulation, fit to be returned into ' th«112 A TREATISE the belly, and affording a reafonable profpe^ ©f fiiccefs in the event. But, on the other hand, if the inflammation ran very high, and has either been negle(5led^' or hot given way to proper treatment, and the operation has been too long deferred, the partsj though loofe, may become fo difeafed, as to be unfit for immediate redu£lion. The difeafe here meant is gangrene, or mortification, produced by the floppage of the circulation of the blood through the part which is on the outfide of the ftri£lure. The gangrenous or mortified ftate of thefe parts may be of more or lefs extent, according!to the quantity contained in the fac; but be the extent of fuch difeafe what it may, the part fo afFe£led ought never to be returned loofe into the belly, (more efpecially if it be intef- tine) without fbme caution. The omentum indeed may be made more free with. If this be fo altered as to be plainly unfit for immediate reduftion, it may be re- moved ; that is, the altered part may be cut off from the found. This is certainly true; but it is a point of praaice which appears to me to deferve fome- what more regard than is mofl commonly paidOR RUPTURES. - j^ciid to it by writers. All that is generally laid of it is, that if the omentum be found in an linfound ftate, a ligature fliould be made on it juft above the altered part, what is be- low fuch hgature fliould be cut off, and the ligature Ihould be left hanging out of the M^ound, that it niay more eafily be taken ^way, when it is caft off. This is the o-ene- i-al do(5lrine, and indeed the general pradice; but which I cannot help thinking is delivered down, and followed by us, fomewhat incon- fidefately. When the omentum is in fuch ftate as to be fit for being returned into the belly, fuch return ought never to be negleded or omitted ; the ufes of the caul are great and obvious, and the want of*" it muft be produdive of inconve- nience to the patient; its warmth, its greafi- nefs, its lubricity, its exteniion over the fur- face of the inteftines, together with the con- ftant motion of that canal, prove its utihty, and in fome meafure point out what the incon- veniencies muft neceffarily be, which follow the removal of it. But it is fometimes found m fuch flate, as to be unfit for redudion; and then we muft embrace the leffer of the two evils, ahd remove fuch part of it as we ought Vol. II. I114 .A TREATISE not to return. This is faid by every body, a^id is certainly true; but feems tp me, as i have juft now obferved, to require more con- fideration than is generally fpent upon it, as vi^ell with regard to the ftat€ requiring fuch operation, as the manner of executing it. It is commonly faid, that if it be found in large quantity, confiderably hardened, or if it be altered in its texture, (that is, by gangrene or mortification) that it ought to be retrenched. The two ftates faid to require this retrench- ment are very materially different from each other: the necefiity of it in the latter is evi- dent ; but I cannot help faying, th^t I think it is ordered in the former very unneceflarily; and that the general method alfo of perform- ing it in the latter, appgjirs to me both, injudi- cious and prejudicial. There may poffibly now and then occur a cafe, in which fuch alteration may have been made in the mere , form and confiftence of the prolapfed piece, by induration, enlargement, &c. that the re- moval of a part of it may become neceffary ; but this, though it does happen fometimes, is very unfit to be made a general rule of. The reafon given, is, that it will He uneafy in a hard lump within the patient's belly; which. ON RUPTURES. I h Aot ntceflarily or generally true, as I have feveral tirries experienced; having returned it when its form and confidence have been much altered, without finding any future inconve- nience : fo that fuch alteration merely, is not a general reafon for cutting it off: on the other hand, I am ready to allow, that.it fome- times is, and that the piece of caul fo altered had better be removed, and that it may alfo be fo connefted, that it will be more to the patient's advantage to have fuch conneded part taken away at'onoe, than go through the pain and fatigue which the feparation may require; in which cafe, my objeaidn lie"^3 principally a^ainft the prefcribed method by figature. Indeed when it is in a gangrenous ftate, a part of it muft necejflkrily be removed, as fuch ftate makes the return of it into the belly highly improper. To accomplifli this, we are ordered to make a ligature on the found part of the omentum, juft above what is altered, and then to cut it off immediately below fuch ligature l and the reafon given for doing it in this manner is, that all the altere^i part may be removed without any rifque of haemorrhage. This method of adling is founded on a groundlefs fear, and is often at- ^ 2 tendedIl6 A TREATISE ' tended with bad confequences, which, not being fuppofed to flow from this caufe, are not fet to its account. . The fear of haemorrhage from the divided veflels, if the omentum be cut in a found part, and the apprehenfion of mifchief, Ukely to enfue from the fliedding of fanies or mat- ter into the belly, if the divifion be made in the diieafed, gave rife to the pradice of tying it before amputation; but neither one nor the other of thefe apprehenfions are well- grounded, nor are they fufficient reafons for fuch prac- tice. The fear of haemorrhage is almoft if not perfeftly without foundation, as I have feye- ral times experienced; and the difcharge of a fluid o^ whatever kind from the border of the ^divided membrane, is of no confequence at all; neither would the hgature prevent it if it was, as muft appear to every one who will _give the fubjea one moment's ferious confi- deration. But this is not all: I am forry to fay that I am by experience convinced, that makmg a ligature on the caul is not only unnecelTary, ^but frequently pernicious, and fometimes even fatal.- A mereON RUPTURES* II7 " A mere theoretical confideration of the parts will convince anyone of the probability of mifchief arifnig from fuch pradlice; but be- fides thefe confiderations, I can fake upon me to fay, that I have feen it add to the hazard of the cafe, and more than once deftroy the patient. I have feen the omentum become difeafed, and gangrenous in all its extent above the ligature, between it and the fto- mach, w^hen it was not gangrenous at all be- fore it was tied; but on the contrary, in a found ftate, and only tied in order to its being more fecurely retrenched. I have feen a whole train of bad fymptoms, fuch as naufea, vomiting, hiccough, fever, anxiety, reftlefl- nefs, great pain in the belly, and an incapacity of fitting upright, or even of moving without exquifite pain, precede the death of a man, whofe omentum was tied merely becaufe of its. enlargement, whofe inteftines uninterrupt- edly, from the time of the operation to his laft hour, performed their proper office of dif- charging the faeces, and were found perfe6^ and untainted after death, but whofe omen- tum appeared in a highly inflammatory ftate in general, and in many parts above the liga- ture gangrenous. I 3 TheA TREATISE The diredion given by many writers to put the patient's body in motion, or to give him a kind of (hake, in order to fet to rights th« difturbance and derangement produced' by tying the caul, would be too abfurd mentior),. did it not lerve to prove, that even the very people who have perfrfted in this pernicious pradice were themfelves fenfible of fome of its probable ill confequences, though they would not try to remedy them: they thought, that thofe which might follow from hae- morrhage, or the difcharge of fanies, wero ftill greater, but made no experiment, in order to know whether they were or not. I will not pretend to fay, that there never was a dangerous or fetal flux of Hood, from the divifion of the omentum, without ligature; but I can truly fay that I never faw one; that I have feveral times cut off portions of it, without tying, and never had trouble from it of any kind, though I have always made the excifion in the found part; and that, from the fliccefs vs/hich has attended it, I fhall alwap continue tb do fo, whenever it (hall become neceffiuy. Upon the whole, I cannot help thinking the ligature both unneceffary and pernicious, and can venture fi'om ex|)erienceON RUPTURES. jjg to fay, that any portion of the caul, which it may be thought neceflarj'- to remove, may very fafely be cut off, without any previous tying. The beft and fafeft method of performing this operation, is with a good pair of ftraight fciflbrs, having firft expanded it, as well on account of its more eafy divifion, as to pre- vent the mifchief which would attend the cutting a piece of inteftine, if it fhould chance td be wrapped up in it; and if any fear ftill remains of hasmorrhage, the excifion may, in the cafe of mortification, be made juft within the altered part of it; in which cafe, there will no more be left to be caft off, than there mufl be when a ligature is made. If the gangrene, or fphacelus, have taken poflbffion of the inteftine, and confifts of a fmall fpot only, which, by cafting off, might endanger the fhedding its contents into the belly, the method of endeavouring to prevent that inconvenience is, by cofineaing the up- per part to the wound by means of a needle and ftrong ligature; by this means, when the mortified part feparatcs, the faeces are dif- charged by the wound for fome time; after which it has been known to contraft o-ra- T ^ ^ 4 dually,J20 A TREATISE dually, and heal firmly: but whether the event proves fo lucky or not, this method of fecuring the gut fhould never be omitted. In making this artificial attachment of the inteftine to the infide of the belly, care muft be taken not to wound the gut; the needle muft be pifled through the mefentery, at a fmall diftance from the inteftine, and fuch a portion of that body included within the ftitch, as {hall be likely to hold faft long enough to render the connexion probable. If the altered portion of the gut be of fuch extent as to require excifion, but yet not fo. large as'^^to prevent the extremities of the di- vided parts from being brought into contaft with each other, their union muft be endea- voured by future; l^ doing this, the ends of the inteftine ftiould be made to lay fomewhat over each other, by which means the future will be the ftronger; and when the two ends are thus fewed together, they muft both be faftened to the infide of the belly, at the upper part of the wound, that in cafe the union does not take place, the difcharge of faeces may, if poflible, be made through the groin. But if the difeafe be of fuch extent as to pro- hibit the bringing the two ends together, the treatment.ON RUPTURES. jjj treatment muft be different. In this cafe, as it is impoflible to preferve the continuity of the internal canal, the aim of the furgeon xnuft be to prevent the contents of it fron; being flied injto the belly, and to derive through the wound in the groin all that which fhould, in a found and healthy ftate, pafs off by the redurr) and anu§. To apcomphfh this, he mufttake care that neither extremity of the divided intefline flip out of his fingers; then with a proper needle, and a ftrong Jigature, he muft conneft both of them to the upper edge of the wound: the future, with which the connexion is made, muft not be flight, left it caft off before a due degree of adhefion is procured; and it muft alfo be made in fuch a manner as to preferve the mouth of the gut as free and as open as may be, upon which the patient's fmall re- maining chance does in forne meafure depend. The method advifed by La Peyronie, of ftitchr ing the mefentery jnftead of the inteftine, i§ judicious and right. The dreffing in this cafe fhould be as foft and as light as poffible, nothing heavy, no- thing cranimed in, nothing which can irritate or give pain; and the patient muft obferveJ 22 A TREATISE, 6 . Writers the moft rigii feverity of diet, and the moft perfect quietude both of body and mind. Widi regard to medicine, whatever is exhi- bited muH be calculated to procure reft and cafe, to quiet the febrile heat, to keep the body open, and, if neceffary,_ (as it moft fre- quently muft be) to refift putrefaftion. All the reft muft be left to nature, who is by her great Creator furnifhed with fuch powers, as fometimes to produce wonderful effedls, even in thefe deplorable cafes. This is the fubftance of the beft pradice, and of the moft approved dodlrine, in thefe circumftances, and which has fometimes been attended with a fortunate event; but the pra6titioner who is fo fituated as to fee but little of this kind of bufinefs, ought to be ap- prifed how very little reafon there is to hope for, or to promife fuccefs. More cenfure is incurred by an unguarded prognoftic, than by a fuccefsful event, if pro- perly and judicioufly foretold; and if a man was to form -his judgment upon this,, and fome other hazardous diforders, from books pnly, he would expe£l very little of that trou- ble and difappointment, which he will moft certainly meet with in pra6lic-e.ON RUPTURES. Writers in general are too much inclined to tell their fuccefles only, and are fond of relat- ing cafes of gangrene and mortification, in which, large portions of inteftine have been removed, the proper operations performed with great dexterity, and in which the events proved fortunate; and of this they all give us inftances, either from their own practice, or that of others, or perhaps fometimes from imagination; by which the young reader '19 made too fanguine in his expedation. ^ That thefe extraordinary fuccefles dofome^ times happen, is beyond aU doubt, and it is every man's duty to aim at the fam^ by aU poffible means ; but ftill the inexperienced praditioner fhould alfo be informed, how many fink for one that is recovered, and how many lucky circumfliances muft concur, with all his pains ^o produce a happy event in thefe ^ery deplorable cafes. Without this caution he will meet with very irkfome difappoint- ments; and having been often baffled, where ke thought he had good reafon to exped fuc- cefs, hQ will fometimes meet with it fo very liiiexpeaedly, that he will be inclined to be- lieve the farcaftical diflindion between cures, and efcapes, not ill-founded. To124 ' A TREATISE To fay the truth, the hazard is fo great, and the utmoft power of art fo little, that what lapis faid to ^neas with relation to his cure, may with great propriety be faid here: Mon hccc humanh opibus, non arte magijlra Provetiiunt; neque te Mneamea dexter a fervat: '^ajor agtt Deus, ' 3 E C T. VII. The portion of inteftine, or omentum, which compofed an hernia, being replaced while found and unhurt either by inflamma-f tion or gangrene, it had always till very lately been fuppofed, that if a new defcent of them was prevented by the immediate application of a bandage, no mifchief was likely to enfue, and that while the trufs executed its office properly, the patient was thereby free from danger. But within thefe few years, it has byfome of the French writers been faid, that the her- nial fac may be fo loofe and unconnefted with the fpermatic chord, that it may be re- turned into the belly, while it contains a por- tionON RUPTURES. I 25 tion of inteftlne, labouring under a ftridlure made by the neck of the faid fac; and of this they have given inftances of cafes,—or of what appeared to them to be fo. Mr. Le Dran tells us, that in one of thefe, the rupture was with fome difficulty returned, but the fymptoms neverthelefs continuing, the patient died; and that upon opening the body he found the hernial, fac, including a confiderable portion of inteftine, returned into the belly; and that the ftridure made by the neck of the fac, bound fo tight, that he could not difengage the gut from it without cutting* it.---His words are, Nous trouvames dans le ventre le fac *' herniare, qui avoit trois pouces de profon- d^ur, fur huit pouces de circonference, et '* dans ce fac etoit encore enfermee une demie 5'* aulme de I'inteftine jejunum. Tenant le •** fac k plein main, je voulus en faire fortir Tinteftin, en le tirant par I'un de bouts; " mais la chofe me fut impoliible, tant I'entree " du fac etoit relferree, & je n'en vins au " bout, qu'en dilatant cette entree avec les ** cifeaux," &c. In De la Faye*s notes on Dionis may alfo be126 A 1'REATISE be feen an inftance of this kind of cafe, of at leaft of what was taken fof fuch. I have already given my opitiioii concern- ing the pra6licability of returning a hernial fac back into the abdomen, after it has been out any confiderablc length of tirrie; I never faw, either in the dead or the living, any i*ea- fon to fuppofe it poffible; the aflfertions of thefe gentlemen are very positive, and I muft leave the reader to judge of them as he^can. The ftraitnefs of the neck of the fac is fu|>i- pofed to be produced by the preffure of the bolfter of a trufs, worn to keep the parts frona defcending. This part of the fuppofition is pro- bable, but it muft alfo be confidered, that the lame preffure muft almoll; neceffarily occafion adhefions of the outfide of the fac to the fur- rounding cellular membrane; and if we were to fuppofe the fac loofe and unconne6:ed iii every other part, (a thing I nauft own I n^ver J&w) yet this alone would for ever prevent its return into the belly. It is indeed reprefented as a circumftance not very frequently occurring, which is fortu- nate for mankind ; as it can neither be fore- feen nor prevented, and would add conlider- ably to the hazard of ruptures. ItON RUPTURES. 127 It is faid, that by carefully attending to the manner in which a rupture goes up, we may diftinguifh whether the fac returns with it or not; that if it does, including the gut, a hard body will be perceived to pafs under the finger, ^md that the inteftine in its paffage through the abdominal opening, will not make that kind of guggling noife which it is ufually found to do, when the fac does not return with it. This, inflead of being the charac- teriftic mark of the return of the fac, will al- moft always be found to be the cafe when a portion of omentum, which has been much Gompreffed, goes up at the fame time with the gut; and therefore, however ingenious this obfervation may f{?em., confidered theore- tically, it is not to be depended upon in pradtiqc. But fuppofing we had fome clear and un- doubted marks, by which we could always know when this was the cafe, I do not fee how we could'avail ourfelves of them i the intefline mufi be returned before we can have our ijiformation ; and if inftead of the uncer-' tain, delufive reafons jufl: given, we had the cleareft and moft fatisfadory marks of what IS fufpedled, we have no remedy, but a very perplexing.A TREATISE 128 perplexing, tedious, and painful operation, which, ! fancy, as few furgeons would in thefe circumftances chufe to perform, as pa- tients fubmit to. I call thefe marks or fymptoms, which thefe gentlemen have given us, doubtful and delufive, becaufe they do not with any degree of certainty indicate the caufe to which they are owmg, or from which they arife; for the inflammation excited in the inteftine by its having: been engao-ed for fome time in a ftric- ture, will fometimes produce all the fame complaints after its return; but no chirurgi- cal operation will relieve them. In the common redufticm therefore of an inteftinal rupture by the hand, I do not fee how we can avail ourfelves of this fuppofed difcovery; and when the operation by the knife becomes neceflary, it can be of no con- fequence at all; for if the operation be pro- perly performed, the hernial fac will be di- vided through its whole length, before the inftrument reaches the tendon; and therefore the gut can never be returned, while bound by any ftridure from the former. It has indeed been faid, that till this difco- very was made, the ftridure of the abdominal tendon,dN RUPTURSS. i2'g tendon, atid the adhefion of the contents df the hernial fac to its fides^ were the onlj known reafons why any rupture fliould be ir- returnable; and that when fuch cafe occurred, if the tendon only was divided, and the fac deduced unopened, the patient tnight be loft notwithftanding all that had been done. To this I Can only fay, that a ftridure made by the fac only, is far from being a thing un- known, and is one of the principal reafons Why all judicious writers and pradiitioners have advifed it to be always divided; and when this is properly executed, no fuch con- fequences can follow, even if the hernial fac ihould be (what I have never yet feen) capa- ble of being returned into the belly. SECT. VIII. Ruptures through the openings of the tisndons of the oblique mufcles in females, are fubjea to the fame fymptoms, and require nearly the fame general treatment, as the in- guinal ruptures of males, and, hke them, frequently admit of perfeft cure, ifqot mif- managed or negledled at firft ; the fame kind Vol. II. K of13© A TREATISE of trufs is alfo neceffaiy, and the fame cautions with regard to the manner of wearing it. The open texture of the cellular membrane furrounding the fpermatic veffels, and the laxity of the fcrotum, render the hernial tu- mor much larger in males than it can well be in females; neither can it defcend fo low in the latter, as it does frequently in the former, for reafons which are obvious. The female hernia, if recent, has much the fame appearance as the bubonocele in man ; and when more of the gut or caul is thruft forth than will Ue conveniently in the groin, it pufhes down into one of the labia pudendi, and fometimes forms a tumor of pretty coniiderable fize. When eafily reducible, like that of men, it gives but little pain, and generally returns into the belly upon going to bed, or ilpon the patient being laid in a fupine pofture : when it is bound by the opening of the abdominal tendon, and is therefore difficult, or incapable of reduaion, it is attended with the fame fymptom3 as the incarcerated hernia in man, and requires the fame general treatment, of bleeding, glyfters, purges, warm bath, &c. and (thefc failing) the chirurgic operation; byON RUPTURES, j^f by which the hernial fac is laid open, and the ftridlure made by the tendon, divided. In males, the cellular membrane which furrounds the fpermatic veffels and the her- nial fac, is generally fo thickened by diften- tion, as to take fome little time to cut through, and proves thereby d kind of fecurity to pre- vent the fac from being too haftily opened; but in females it fhould be remembered, that the hernial bag lies immediately under the membrana adipofa, and requires to be very cautioufly divided, on account of its contents; nor have I in general obferved the fluid con- tained in the hernial fac of females to be equal to that which is found in males. The piece of intefline which is ftrangu- lated in the female bubonocele, is fometimes fo fmall, as to occafion very little tumor, and therefore, if recent, is very often, in modeft women, not known to be the caufe of the fymptoms which it produces ; if by accident it returns back before it is hurt in its texture, the difeafe paffes for a colic; if it proves fatal by mortification, it is taken for a paffto iliaca^ or miferere. The means made ufe of for the relief of either of thofe difeafes, bein Z fuch as will not, in general, without the affiftance of K. 2 a furgeon'sA TREATI&E a furgeon's hand, procute a return of the pro-' truded gut, many an ufeful life has been loft by the real eaufe of the mifchief not being known. Every fymptom (the tumor excepted) which accompanies a rupture labouring under ftric- ture, may attend a paflio iliaca; that is, an inflammation and obftru£lion to the execution of the office of the inteftine, whether pro- duced by the ftriclure of the abdominal ten- don, or the fpafmodic contradlion of its own mufcular fibres, will be attended with the fame kind of fymptoms : but though the ge- neral means of relief are alike in both cafes, yet the former requires alfo the afliftance of a furgeon's hand to replace the piece of in- teftine, or all the reft will be abfolutely inef- feftual: if that be neglefted, the cafe in ge- neral will end ill, and though the mifchief is fet to another account, and- fuppofed to have been without remedy, yet it is very certain that timely alfiftance would very frequently prevent fuch bad confequences. It therefore behoves every medical man, who may be called to women labouring under fuch com- plaints, to be very attentive to them, and if the fymptoms run high, never to omit in- quiring whether there be any tumor in the groin,ON RUPTURES. groin, belly, or pudenda, and if there be fuch, to be informed of what nature it is, be- fore he goes any farther, or lofes any more of that time, which in all thefe cafes is fo very precious. In the cafe of the dolor colicus, the pain is either round about the navel, or diffufed in general all over the belly, that arifing from a ftrangulated rupture is alfo very frequently general all over the belly, but is always more particularly acute at the groin, which part is alfo remarkably tender to the touch. The tenfion of the belly, and the vomiting in the paffio iliaca, are in general the firft, at leaft they are very early fymptoms ; whereas they do not come on in ruptures, till after fome time is paft. Perhaps fome other minute di- ftindions might be made between the appa- rently fimilar fymptoms of the two difeafes ; but the beft and moft infallible way to know what the real ftate of the cafe is, and thereby what ought to be done, is to have the parts examined where fuch tumor may be expe£l- ed; this removes all doubt, and gives the pra6litioner the fatisfa(flion of knowino- that let the confequence be whatever it may, he is purfuing a rational and probable method of relieving his pafien t. K3 SECT.A TREATISE SECT. IX, The crural, or femoral hernia, receives its namefrom its fituation,the tumor occafioned by it being in the upper and fore-part of the thigh. To underiland rightly the nature and fitu- ation of a crural rupture, it is neceffary to at- tend to the anatomical ftru£lure and difpoiition of the obliquus defcendens mufcle of the ab- domen. Whoever does this will find, that that part of it which runs obliquely down- ward from, the fpine of the os ilion, towards the fymphyfis of the os pubis, is tucked down, and folded inward, as it were. This edge or border, fo folded in, is what is called the ligamentum Poupartii by fome, by others the Ugamentum Fallopii, as if it was a diflin^t and feparate body, but is really no more than the inferior border of the tendon of the ob- lique mufcle. In all the fpace between thefe two attachments, this tendon is loofe and un- connected with any bone; all the hollow, which is made by the form of the os ilion, between the point of the attachment of the ligament or tendon to that bone, and its other connexion at the os pubis, is filled up by cellular me m.brane, fat, and glands; which partsON RUPTURES. I^^ parts are covered, and braced down, by a fine tendinous expanfion, communicating between the tendon of the obHqiuis defcendens abdo- minis and the fafcia lata of the thigh. Under this tendon, or hgament, the parts compofing a hernia pafs, and produce a tumor on the upper and fore-part of the thigh. The fac is generally defcribed as paffing over the crural artery and vein, which are faid to lie immediately behind it; but whoever will ex- ajmine the ftate of thefe parts, in a dead fub- jedt, will find that this is not a true reprefen- tation: the defcent is made on one hde of thefe veflels, nearer to the os pubis; and the hernial fac, if it be not greatly diftended, lies between the crural veflels, and the lafl men- tioned bone, on which it refts. The femoral hernia is not fo fubjedl to ftri£lure as the inguinal, there being a larger fpace for the inteftine to occupy; but when fuch mifchief does happen, the fymptoms are fo exactly the fame as they are in a ftrangu- lated inguinal hernia, that it is quite unne- ceffary to repeat them in this place. The method of attempting reduftion, and the treatment of the patient in cafe of difficulty, are the fame alfo; excepting that in the in- K 4 guinal,A TREATISE guinal, the part to be reduced fhould ba preffed obliquely toward the os ilion; in the femoral, the preffure ought to be made diredlly upward, or a little toward the pubes, When it is not reducible by the hand only, it, like the other, becomes the objed of a chin rurgic operation, by which the fac is laid open, the flridure removed, and the prolapfed parts- returned. The incifion Ihould be made through the Ikin, and membrana adipofa, the whole length pf the tumor ; under thefe will be feen the tendinous fafcia, or expanhon, ^nd immedir ately under that the hernial fac; thefe being carefully divided, and the portion of inteftine thereby denuded, it is well worth while tp try if it cannot be returned without dividing the tendon, as there is a coniiderable fpace be- tween the OS ilium and the os pubi?, to ma-r nage fuch redu(51:ion in, and as the divifion of the tendon is not always, in this kind of rup- ture, fo fafely executed; in this there are two parts of confequence, which lie very Jittle out of the way of the knife, and which ^n operator fhould avoid wounding : thefe are |:he epigaflric artery, and the fpermatic chord. If the divifion of the ligament be madediredly upward^ON RUPTURES. I^^ upward, the fpermatic chord will certainly be divided; and if, to avoid that, the knife be carried very obliquely towards the os ilium, the artery, will meet with the fame fate; and indeed if the iucifion of the ligament be made of any length, let it be made in whatever part it may, the rifque will be great of wounding one of the parts juft mentioned, as 'will appear to any body who will examine them inJitu nafurali, and make a proper al>^ iowance for the preflure, and diftention of the hernial fac. Of the two, the fpermatic chord is certainly the mojft to be regarded, as the total divilion of it would in all probability render the tefti- cle on that fide ufelefs. If the artery be wounded, it muft be taken up with a needle and hgature; but the doing is not fo eafy as thediredingit to be done: the epigaftric artery in many rnen is near as large as the fmaller carpal; departs immediately from the trunk of the crural, and, at its origin, lies in a bed of fat and cellular membrane; the ftream. of blood would be pretty brilk, and the pafTage of the needle round would certainly be trou- blefome, if not hazardous from the vicinity of iht crural veflels: it rnay undoubtedly be hap- pily1^8 A TREATISE pily executed, but as it muft be attended with a good deal of trouble, and fome rifk, it is much better to avoid the neceffity, which I think may almoft always be done, conlidering the large fpace between the os ilion and the OS pubis, and that that fpace is occupied prin- cipally by cellular membrane, and fat: or if the divifion of the ligament be unavoidable, let the operator be particularly careful to keep the extremity of the probe-pointed knife within the end of his fore-finger, held up tight juft behind the edge or border of the tendon, and to make as fmall an incifion as may-be neceffary: the probe-fciffors, the common inftrument in ufe for this operation, is in this cafe particu- larly hazardous and improper. In all other circumftances, this hernia, and the inguinal, are fo fimilar as to need no repe- tition. S E C T. X. THE CONGENIAL HERNIA. The congenial hernia, as it is now called, is that particular kind of hernia, in which the portion of inteftine, or omentum, which occa- fions the tumor, inftead of being found alone in the hernial fac (as in a common rupture)GN RUPTURES. j is found in conta6l with the naked tefticle; the bag containing it being formed by the tunica vaginalis tejiis. The manner in which a common hernial fac is formed, has already in a former chapter been related, viz. by the thrufting forth of a portion of the peritoneum through the open- ing in the tendon of the external oblique mufcle of the abdomen; which portion, fo thruft forth, contains a piece of inteftine, or omentum, or both. A hernial fac thus formed always communicates with the cavity of the belly, but never with that of the tunica vagi- nalis teftis. It paffes down anterior to the fpermatic chord, and when it is laid open, is found to contain only a portion of gut, or caul, and a fmall quantity of fluid. On the contrary, the fac of a congenial her- nia is formed by the tunica vaginalis teftis it- felf; and when it is laid open, (whatever elfe may be in it) it is always found to contain the teflicle, covered only by its proper coat, com- monly called tunica albuginea. The manner in v/hich this is brought about, the original or early fituation of the teftes in a foetus, their defcent, their protrufion from the cavity of the belly, and the formation of the tunicaA TREATISE tunica vaginalis teffis, I have defcribed Co much at large in two tradls already publifhed% that I fhall give a very fhort account of them in this place. That bag which is defigned to make the future tunica vaginalis teftis is an originally- formed part, lies in the groin, under the Ikin and adipofe membrane, and has an orifice always open to the abdomen of a foetus. By means of this orifice, the tefticle;at proper time defcends into the groin firfl:, . and then moil commonly into the fcrotum; and when it has been fome httle time in the latter,- the opening from the belly generally becomes clofe, and is obliterated. By the clofmg of this paflage, a bag or cavity is formed, which contains within it the tefticle covered only by its tunica albuginea, and which bag never after- ward has any communication with the orifice into the cavity of the belly. The time at which the teflicles are thruft forth from the belly is very uncertain, as I have often experienced; and fo is that of the " An account of the congenial hernia, publifhed in 1757; and fome obfervations on the hydrocele, publifliedin 1762. In Dr. Hunter's Medical Comment, No. I, may alfo be feen a very ingenioqs account of this matter, by his brother IVfr, John. Hunter. abfoluteON RUPTURES. I^^ abfolute clofing of the facculus. In fome they pafs out before birth, in fome immediately after, and in fome not till fome time after ; in fome they never pafs out at all, and in others, they (that is the two) arrive in the groin, or fcrotum, at different, and fometimes very dif- tant times. In fhort, the intention of nature, and herprocefs, is in general regular and plain, but it is accomplifhed at different periods in. different perfons, and fometimes, like mofl other parts of the animal economy, it is to- tally prevented by accident, or mal-formation. . The intrufion of a piece of intefl:ine or omentum into the orifice of the tunica vasi- nalis is one of thefe accidents. By means of either of thefe, the clofing of the paffage is prevented, and a hernial lac of a particular kind formed. This fac being really the vagi- nal coat of the teftis, muft, if that body has fallen from the abdomen, contain the intef- tine, omentum, or v^^hatever forms the hernia, and the teflicle, in immediate contadl with each other. This is the congenial hernia; a difeafe un- known till within thefe few years, but by no means an infrequent one. 8 TheA TREATISE The appearance of a hernia in very early infancy, will always make it probable that it is of this kind; but in an adult, there is no reafon for fuppofing his rupture to be of this fort, but his having been afflidled with it from his infancy; there is no external mark or cha- raaer, whereby it can be > certainly diftin- guifhed from one contained in a common her- nial fac ; neither would it be of any material ufe in praftice if there was. When returnable, it ought like all other kind of ruptures to be reduced, and conftantly kept up by a proper bandage; and when at- tended with fymptoms of ftri£ture, it requires the fame chirurgic affiftance as the common hernia. In very young children, there are fome eir- cumftances relative to this kind of rupture, which are very well worth attending to, as they may prove of very material confequence to the patient. A piece of inteftine, or omentum, may get pretty low down in the fac, while the tefticle is ftill in the groin, or even within the abdo- men; both which I have fcen. In this cafe, the application of a trufs would be highly im- proper ;ON RUPTURES. 1 proper; for in the latter, it might prevent the defcent of the tefticle from the belly into the fcrotum; in the former it muft neceffarily bruife and injure it, give a great deal of unne- ceflary pain, and can prove of no real ufe. Such bandage therefore ought never to be ap- plied on a rupture in an infant, unlefs the tef- ticle can be fairly felt in the fcrotum, after the gut or caul is replaced; and when it can be fo felt, a trufs can never be put on too foon. As this kind of rupture is fubje6l to ftric- ture with all its confequences, as much as that which is contained in a common hernial f^ic, and therefore liable to ftand in need of the chirurgic operation; it may be very well worth an operator's while to know, that an old rupture, which was originally congenial, is fubjea to a ftrifture made by the fac itfelf, independent of the abdominal tendon, as well as to that made by the faid tendon. Whether this be owing to the weight of the terticle at the bottom of the fac, and the endeavours which nature makes to clofe the upper part of the tunica vaginalis, or to what other caufe, I will not pretend to fay, but the faa I have feveral times noticed, both in the dead and in the living. I have feen fuch- ftrictureJ44 A tRBiAf 19^ ftriaure made by the fac of one of thefe hct^ ni«, as produced all thofe bad fymptoms which render the operation neceffary ; and I have met with two different ftridures, at near an inch diftance from each other, in the body of a dead boy about fourteen, one of .which begirt the inteftine fo tight, that I could not difengage it without dividing the fac. In this kind of hernia I have alfo more fre- quently found connexions and adhefions of the parts tp each other, than in the common one; but there is one kind of connexion fometimes met with in the congenial hernia, which can never be found in that which is in a common hernial fac, and which may require all the dexterity of an operator to fet free ; I mean that of the inteftine with the tefticle^ from which I have more than once experi- enced a good deal of trouble. When a common hernial fac has been laid open, and the inteftine and omentum have been replaced, there .can be nothing left in ic which can require particular regard from the furgeon; but by the divilion of the fac of a congenial hernia, the tefVicle is laid bare, and after the parts compofing the hernia have been reduced, will require great regard and tender- nefs.ON RUPTURES. 14^ nefs, in all the future dreffings, as it is a part very irritable, and very fufceptible of pain, in- flammation, &C.'' If a large quantity of fluid fhould be col- lected in the fac of a congenial hernia, and, by adhefiohs and connexions of the parts within, the eritrarice into it from the abdo- men fliOuld be totally clofed,, (a cafe which I have twice ieen) tke tightnefs of the tumor, the difficulty of diftinguifhing the tefticle, and the fluduation of the fluid, may occafion it to be miftaken for a common hydrocele j and if without attending to other circum- ftances, but trufting merely to the feel and look of the fcrotum, a pundure be haftily made, it may create a great deal of trouble, and poffibly do fatal mifchief. By what has fallen within my obfervation, I am inclined to believe that the fac of a con- genial hernia is very feldom, if ever, diftended to the degree which a common hernial fac often is: it alfo, from being lefs dilated, and " The method of bringing the parts together, and retaining them fo as to exclude the air, (mentioned in a note page 108 of this volume) is equally applicable to cafes of congenial her- nia:, and as it will prevent the expofure of the teftis, all future dreffings of it will be unneceflary. E. Vol. II, L rather' A TREATISE rather more confined by the upper part of the Ipermatic procefs, generally preferves a pyri- form kind of figure, and, for the fame reafon, is alfo generally thinner, and will therefore require more attention and dexterity in an operator when he is to open it. To which I believe I may add, that common ruptures, or thofe in a common fac, are generally gradu- ally formed, that is, they are firft inguinal, and by degrees become fcrotal; but the con- genial are feldom, if ever, remembered by the patient to have been in the groin only. SECT. XI. EXOMPHALOS. The Exomphalos, or Umbilical rupture, is fo called from its fituation, and has, like the other, for its general contents, a portion of inteftine, or'omentum, or both. In . old um- bilical ruptures, the quantity of omentum.is fometimes very great. . Mr. Ranby fays, that he found two ells and half of inteftine in one of thefe, with aboutON 11UPTUR£S« 147 about a third part of the ftomach, all adher- ing together. Mr. Gay and Mr. Nourfe found the liver in the fac of an umbilical hernia; and Boh- nius fays that he did alfo. But whatever are the contents, they are originally contained in the lac, fofitied by the protrufion of the peritoneum. In recent, and fmall ruptures, this fac is very vifible; but in old, and large ones, it is' broken through at the knot of the navel, by the prefliire and weight of the contents, and is not always to be diftinguifhed; which is the reafon why it has by fome been doubted whether this kind of rupture has a hernial fac or not., Infants are very fubje£l to this difeafe, in a fmall degree, from the feparation of the funi- culus ; but in general they either get rid of it as they gather ftrength, or are eafily cured by wearing a proper bandage. It is of ftill more confequence to get this diforder cured\ in females, even than in males, that its return when they are become adult, and pregnant, may be prevented as much as polTible ; for at this time it often happens, from the too great diftention of the belly, or from unguarded, L 2 motionA TREATISE motion when the parts are upon the ftretch. During geftation it is often very troublefome, but after dehvery^ if the contents have con- traded no adhefion, they will often return, and may be kept in their place by a proper banda2:e. If fuch bandage was always put on in time, and worn conftantly, thedifeafe might in ge- neral be kept within moderate bounds, and fome of the very terrible confequences which often attend it might be prevented. The woman who has the fmalleft degree of .it, and who from her age and fituation has rea- lon to expe6l children after its appearance, fhould be particularly careful to keep it re- trained. In fome the entrance of the fac is larsfe, and the parts eafily reducible ; in others they are difficult, and in fome abfolutely irreduci- ble. Of the laft kind many have been fuf- pended for years in a proper bag, and have given little or no trouble. They who are afflidled with this diforder, who are advanced in life, and in whom it is large, are generally fubjeft to colics, diarrheas, and if the intef- tinal paffage be at all obftrudled, to very trou- blefome■ON RUPTURES. 14^ blefome vomitings ^ It therefore behoves- fuch to take great care to keep that tube as clean and free as poffible, and neither to eat or drink any thing Hkely to make any difturb- ance in that part. The cure, as propofed by authors, is either- radical, or palHative. Celfus, Paulus ^^^gineta, Albucafis, Aqua- pendens, Guido, Severinus, Rolandus, and others, mention a radical cure by ligature; Fab. ab Aquapendente propofes, " aut medi- " camentis aut ferro umbilicum adurere;'* but after having defcribed both methods, he lays them under fuch reftraints, from age, habit, fize of the tumor, time of the year, &c. as amounts almofl to a prohibition againft putting them in pra£lice at all; and it is to be hoped that nobody will attempt to revive them. The methods by ligature are two ; in the one, the Ikin covering the tumor is to be lifted up with the finger and thumb, or with a fmall Jiook, to free it from the inteftine underneath, and then a ligature is to be made round the bafis of the tumor, lo ft rid as to procure a ' On which account they are often fuppofed to labour under a ftrifture of the inteftine, when they really do not, 1-w q mortification15° A TREATISE mortification of all that part which is ante- rior to fuch Hgature. In the other, the Ikin is to be elevated in the fame manner, and a needle armed with a double ligature is to be pafled through the bafis of the tumor, which is to be tied above and below, or on each fide, fo tight as to produce the fame effed. Pre- vious to the drawing the ligature clofe, it is advifed to make a fmall incifion in the top of the tumor, large enough to pafs in the end of the fore-finger, and with it fo to deprefs the inteftine or omentum, as to prevent their be- ing engaged in the ftridure. The intention in both thefe methods is the fame, viz. by deftroying the lax Ikin covering the top of the tumor, to produce a cicatrix \Vhich fhall bind fo tight, as to reftrain the parts from any future protrufion. The objections to either of thern are fo ob- vious, that it is hardly neceffary to fay any thing concerning them; though in this age of quackery and credulity, I fhould not won- . der to fee them revived and praflifed. In young fubjeCls, and fmall herniee, a bandage worn a proper time generally proves a perfe<^ cure; and in old perfons, and large tumors, it is hardly to be fuppofed that anyON RUPTURES. IJI body can think of any, but a palliative one, tlie hazard of producing a mortification being fo great. But fuppofe the fubjea to be young, and the tumor of fuch fize, and in fuch ftate, as to make it unhkely that a bandage would do more than palliate; that the Ikin covering the tumor is fo lax, as to make it improbable that it {hould ever recover its former ftate, and he fmooth, and that when it has been removed, the cicatrix ihall bind fo tight, as to prevent the future protrufion of any of the contained parts; yet who can tell what may be the confequence of this deftruaion of parts, and this indilatibility of the Ikin in aftate of preg- nancy ? 1 mention this, becaufe I have feen very terrible mifchief from the burfting of a cicatrix on the navel, during geft'ation; though the fear was from an abfcefs, opened by in- cifion, and confequently could not be fup- pofed to be equal, either in fize or refiftance, to one produced by the before-mentioned operation. The umbilical, tike the inguinal hernia, becomes the fubjed of chirurgic operation, when the parts are irreducible by the hand only, and are fo bound as to produce bad L 4 fymptoms. I^•5,^ A TREATISE fymptoms. But though I have in the ingui- nal and fcrotal hernia advifed the early ufe of the knife, I cannot prefs it fo much in this; the fuccefs of it is very rare, and I fhould make it the lafl: remedy. Indeed I am much. incHned to beUeve, that the bad fymptoms vi^hich attend thefe cafes are moft frequently owing to diforders in the inteflinal canal, and not fo often to a ftridure made on it at the navel,' as is fuppofed. I do not fay that the. latter does not fometimes happen, it certainly ' does; but it is often believed to be the cafe when it is not. When the operations become neceffary, it confifts in dividing the fkin and hernial fac, in fuch manner as fhall fet the inteftine free from ftrifture, and enable the furgeon to re- turn it into the abdomen, if found, and not adherent; but if it be gangrenous, or morti- fied, the altered part muft be removed, and the fiscal difcharge be derived through the wound ; by which means, fome few have preferved their lives, if fuch ftate can be call- ed living. SECT.O.N RUPTURES. ^53 SECT. XII. "VENTRAL HERNIA, &C. This may appear in almoft any point of the forepart of the belly, but is moft frequently^ found in or between the re£11 mufcles. The portion of iijteftine, &c. is always, con- tained in a fac, made by the protrufion of the. peritoneum. When reduced, it fhould be kept in its place by bandage, and if attended with ftri£lure, which cannot otherwife be re- lieved, that ftridlure rnuft be carefully divided. The hernia Foraminis Ovalis, I have, never feen All the parts almofl:, which, are contained in the belly or pelvis, are by the dilatation of their connecting membranes, capable of being thruft forth, and of producing fwellings, all which are called herniae. Ruyfch gives an account of an impregnated uterus being found on the outfide of the ab- dominal opening ; and fo does Hildanus and =" Since Mr. P; wrote this, he informed me. that he had feen two cafes of this kind, one in a man, another in a woman ; in both, the parties fufFered great pain when the intefUne was protruded, as it frequently was to the lize of a hen's egg, but by lying in a horizontal pollure, and a gentle preffure being made, it receded. E. 6 ' Sennertus.^54- A TREATISE Sennertus. Ruyfch .alfo gives an account of an entire fpleen having paffed the tendon of the obHque imifcle. And I have myfelf feen the ovaria removed by incifion, after they had been fome months in the groin. The urinary bladder is alfo liable to be thruft forth, from its proper fituation, either through the opening in the obhque mufcle, like the inguinal hernia, or under Poupart's ligament, in the fame manner as the femoral. This is not a very frequent fpecies of her- nia, but does happen, and has as plain and de- termined a charafter as any other. It has been mentioned by Bartholin, T. Dom. Sala, Platerus, Bonetus, Ruyfch, Petit, Mcvy, Verdier, &c. In one of the hiftories given by the latter, the urachus, and imper- vious umbilical artery on the left lide, were drawn through the tendon into the fcrotum, with the bladder; in another he found four calculi. Ruyfch gives an account of one complicated with a mortified bubonocele. Mr. Petit fays he felt feveral calcuH in one, which were af- • terwards difcharged through the urethra. Bartholin fpeaks of T. Dom. Sala as the iirft difcoverer of the difeafe, and quotes a cafe fromON RUPTURES. 155 from him, in which the patient had all the fymptoms of a ftone in his bladder ; the ftone could never be felt by found, but was found in the bladder (which had palled into the groin) after death. As the bladder is only covered in part by the peritoneum, and muft infmuate itfelf be- tween that membrane and the oblique mufcle, in order to pafs the opening in the tendon, it is plain that the hernia cyftica can have no fac, and that, when complicated with a bubo- nocele, that portion of the bladder which forms the cyftic hernia muft lie between the inteftinal hernia and the fpermatic chord, that is, the inteftinal hernia muft be anterior to the cyftic. A cyftic hernia may indeed be the caufe of an inteftinal one; for when fo much of the bladder has pafled the ring, as to drag in the upper and hmder part of it, the peritoneum which covers that part muft follow, and by that means a fac be formed for the reception of a portion of gut or caul. Hence the differ- ent fituation of the two hernia in the fame fubje£l. While recent, this kind of hernia is eafdy reducible, and may, like the others, be kept withinA TREATISE the withia by a. proper bandage; but when it is of any date, or has arrived to any confiderable ize, the unne canI^ot be difcharged, without iittingup, and compreffing the fcrotum; the outer furface of the bladder is now become ad^ her^nt to the cellular membrane, and the pa- tient muft be contented with a fufpenfory bag. In cafe of complication with a bubonocele, if the operation becomes neceffary, great care muft be taken not to open the bladder inftead. of the fac, to which it will always be found to be pofterior. And it may alfo fometimes by the inattentive be miftaken for a hydrocele, and by being treated as fuch, may be the oc- cafion of great or even fatal mifchief SEC T. XIII. ATTEMPTS TOWARD A RADICAL CURE. ,I??.the firft fe£l:ion of this treatife I have faid, that the means ufed to . obtain both a palliative and a radical cure were exaflly the fame, and the event was dependent on many circumftances, which a furgeon could neither dii^eQl .nor alter ; fuch as the age of the patient,.ON RUPTURES. 157 the date of the rupture, the thicknefs of the hernial fac, the fize of the abdominal open- ings, &c. They who are unacquainted with the true nature of this difeafe may poflibly be furprifed at this aflertion, and be thereby induced to be- lieve, what has in all times been fo confidently afferted, viz. that there are methods and medicines whereby this difeafe may always be perfectly cured; and that the furgeons, either through indolence will not ^et information of them, or through obftinacy will not pra£tifc them. If either of thefe charges was true, it mull: be the latter, for we certainly do know what attempts of this kind have been made; and if any of thefe means had really deferved the character which has been given of them, had been fafely pradlicable, or had proved ge- nerally fuccefsful, I fhould certainly have fpo- ken of them in their proper place : but this is fo far from being the cafe, that on the con- trary, however they may have been applauded by a few individuals, they have, upon repeated experiment, been found unfit for general prac- tice, being cither totally inefficacious, or pain- fully mifchievous. The majority, nay, almoft all they who have fubmitted to, or tried them, have^5^ A TREATISE have remained unciired of their difeafe, or have been mutilated or murdered in the attempt. Several of thefe methods have indeed the fandion of antiquity, and have been defcribed and even pra£lifed by many of the old fur- geons: the principal of thefe, or they which are moil: worthy of notice, are the cure by cautery ; the cure by caujik; that by cajlration; thepunBum aureum; the royal Ji'iich; and the cure by tncijion. In Avicenna, Albucafis, Paulus ^gineta, Fab. ab Aquapendente, Guido de Caliaco, Se- verinus, Theodoric, Rolandus, Serjeant Wife- man, and others, will be found the cure by cautery, which is performed as follows: After a proper time fpent in fading and purging, the patient muft be put into an ereft pofture, and by coughing, or fneezing, is to make the inteftine proje£l in the groin as much as poffible; when the place and circum- ference of fuch proje(flion is to he marked out with ink. Then the patient being laid on his back, the inteftine is to.be returned fairly into the belly, and a red-hot cautery is to be applied according to the extent of the marked line. For this purpofe, cauteries of different fizes, fhapes,ON RUPTURES. I59 fhapes, and figures, have been devifed; annu- lar, elliptical, circular, like the Greek letter Gamma, &c. The writers who have given an account of this operation, have differed a good deal from each other, not only in the fize and figure of the cautery, but in the depth of its effea:. Some have direded it to be repeated, fo as to denude the os pubis; others dired that the Ikin only be deftroyed by the iron; the cellular membrane, fac, pe- riofteum, &c. with repeated efcharotic appli- cations. But in all of them the exfoliation^ of the bone is made a neceffary part of the pro- cefs; the efchar and floughs being feparated, and the exfoliation caft off, the patient is or- dered to obferve an extremely ftrid regimen, to lie on his back during the cure, and to wear a bandage for fome time after, in order to prevent a new defcent of the parts, which, notwithftanding all the pain, and all the ha- " Albucafis fays, " Et fcias quod quando tu non confequeris " OS cum cauterlo, non confert operatio tua." Rolandus orders the cautery to be ufed in the fame manner.; fo do Guide, Theodoric, &c. Brunus fays, " Si non fuerit os confecutum, in prima vice, " tunc itera cauterium vice alia donee confequeris; quia fi non *' confecutum ftlerit os, cum cauterio, parum confert operatio " tua." 2 zardA TREAtlSE the izard the patieht had undergone, he was Ml liable tx>. T/je cum hy caufiic feems to have fticceeded to that by cautery, and is defcribed by moft of the fame writers, particularly by Guido, Se- Vgfiniis, Lanfraric, I^arey, TheodiDric, Sculte- tus, &c. The patiehf being laid on his back, and the parts returned into the belly, a piece of cauflic is to be appHed on the Ikin, covering the opening in the abdominal tendon, fo large as to produce ah efchar, about the (ize of half a crown. Some fuffer this efchar to feparate, others divide it, and then, by tlie repeated applica- tions of efcharotics, deftroy the membrana cel- lularis, with as much of the hernial fac as can be done without injuring the fpermatic veflels. For this purpofe different kinds of corrofive applications have been made ufe of: paftes loaded with fublimate or arfenic; the ftirpes brafficae, burnt; the tithymalus; the lapis in- fernalis alone, or with fuet and opium; oil -of vitriol; with many others, according to the humour of the operator. But, though the means are fomewhat different from each other, the end or intention in the ufe of them all isON RUPTURES. l6l the fame, viz. to remove or deftroy the Ikin and cellular membrane covering the tumor, together with a part of the hernial fac, and by that means to procure fuch an incarnation, as by its firmnefs, and its attachment to the bone, and parts adjacent, fliall prevent a new defcent of either gut or caul. The mere relation of one of thefe methods is fufficient to Ihock any humane or ingenuous man. The horror attending the ufe of the cautery muft be great, to fay nothing of the extreme uncertainty of the fize or depth of the efchar; the apprehenfion from the cauftic v^^ill be lefs, indeed, but the pain mufl; be nearly as great, and of much longer duration. The parts to be deftroyed are, as I have juft faid, the Ikin, the membrana adipofa, part of the hernial fac, and the periofteum covering the OS pubis, and this is to be accomplifhed without injuring the fpermatic velTels, or the tendon of the abdominal mufcle. If the fpermatic veflels are hurt, an inflamed, or difeafed tefticle will be the confequence j if they are deftroyed, the tefticle will become ufelefs. If the tendon of the oblique mufcle be injured, either by the iron, or by the cau- ftic, terrible Houghs, a large ill-conditioned Vol. II. M fore,i62 A TREATISE fore, and a brilk fymptomatic fever mull be expedted, which m fome habits miift be pro- du6live of coiiiiderable mifchief: and that con- fiderable mifchief was often done by thefe procefles, may be learned from the very writers who defcribe them*. If the OS pubis be laid bare, whether by cau- tery' or by cauftic, fome of the before-men- ' Guido fpeaking of the cure by cauftic fays," In quo fumme cavendum eft, quod dominus fit de corrofivo; fi enim indofte " applicatur, febrim commovet, & accidentia mala." That great pain, defluxion on the haemorrhoidal veflels, and inflam- mation and fwelling of the fcrotum, were often the confequencc of thefe attempts, may be learned from the fame author, who, fpeaking of the method of applying the cauftic, fays, " Et ita *' continue fiat quoufque care miracis tota lit corrupta, ufquc " ad Didymum, quod cognofcitur per inflationem burfae, & " tefticaloram." And that the cauftic has gone deep enough, he gives the following proof: " Quod cognofcetur per majorera " tumoremtefticuli&permajoremdoloremdorfi&partiumpoile- " riorum." Brunus fays, " Et cave fumma diligentia, ne inhora " cauterizationis exeat inteftinum, et comburatur." Lanfranc, fpeaking of the ill efFeft of the cauftic in fomehabits, fays, " Et " fic multi fpafmantur, & fpafmati fubito moriuntur." Fab. ab Aquapendente fays, " Qus tamen chirurgiffi uti videtis, diffi- " ciles admodum funt, & inter fubtiliflimas haberi poffunt; quo fit " ut plerique patientes affeftus perpetuo geftare quamhis chU *' rurgis fubmittere fe vellent." And in another place, " ■Quae " porro chirurgise vehementem dolorem afferunt & fatis diffici- " ^es funt." In fhort,whoever will take the trouble of reading the old writers on this fubjeft will, even from their own account, be fatisfied,both of the pain, hazard, and ineflicacy of aU thefe methods. • tionedON RUPTURESi 16 j tloiied hazards muft be incurred; if it be not, the intention will in general be fruftrated; that is^ the inteftine will flip' down behind the fear, and put the patient under the famd neceffity of wearing a bandage, as he lay un- der before he fubmitfed to fo painful and f(J hazardous an experiment. If the prefervation of life was the-object of thefe means, fomething might be faid in their vindication; the anceps remediittrij rriufl: for evdt bfe preferable td 'defperatioii: but that" is riot t'h& cafe; thfey are reconifherided to be ptit in pra£lide,. when the patient's life is in lio kind of danger, and, are defigried merely to fkve hirti the trouble of wearing atrufs, which purpofe they can feldom anfwer; for it is well khowii, that after the ufe of the eauteryj caiiftic, and every method, either propofed fbr a radical cure, or uTedto refcue a ruptured patient frorri'death, that the intertine will flip down behind the the cicatrix, and form a new bubonocele, which can only be kept up by a proper bandage. Tlie three other means made ufe of by tbe ancients toward obtaining a radical cure. Were the punElum aweum^ the 7-oyal Jl'ttch, and cajiration. M 2 The1^4 A TREATISE The punBum aureum was performed as follows. The inteftines being emptied by piirging, and the hernia reduced, an incifion was made through the Ikin and membrana adipofa, down to the fpermatic procefs. This incifion was to be of fuch length, as to permit the operator, either with his finger or with, a hook, t^ take up the faid procefs, and to pafs a golden wire under it; which wire was to be twifled in fuch a manner as to prevent the inteftine from flipping down again into the hernial fac, but not fo tight as to inter- cept or obftrud: the circulation of the blood to the tefticle. Some operators preferred a leaden wire to a golden one, and others a filken ligature. It may poffibly feem rather uncivil to fay, that both this and the fucceeding operation were directed and pradifed by people who were very little acquainted with the true na- ture and ftrufture of the parts they operated upon, or indeed of the difeafe for which they prefcribed fuch operation; but had not that been the ca^fe, they never could have propofed fo fallacious and uncertain a method of treat- ing it; for if the wire, or whatever was pafl'ed round the procafs, did not bind pretty tight.ON RUPTURES- 165 M 3 Tl^e tight, it would not prevent a defcent of the gut, and the whole operation, though painful and irkfome, muft become abfolutely ufelefs ; if it did bind tight, it muft neceffarily retard and obftrud the circulation of the blood through the fpermatic velTels, and produce a difeafe of them, and of the tefticle ^. The royal Jlitch was performed in this manner: the inteftines being emptied, and the portion which had defeended being re- placed, an incifion was made in fuch manner as to lay bare the fpernaatic chord, about two inches in length from the abdominal opening downward. When the procefs was freed from the cellular membrane, it was to be held up by an affiftant, while the furgeon with a needle and ligature made a continued future, from the lower part of the incifion to the upper, in fuch manner as to unite the divided lips of the wound again, comprehend- ing the cellular membrane, and thereby en-r deavouring to ftraiten the paflage, as they called it, from the belly into the fcrotum, without injuring the fperrnatic veflels. * Whoever would know the particular methods of executing tkis operation, may find them in Guido, Parey, Franco* Scul- tetus, Smaltzius, Permannus, Nuck, &c,f,66 .1 TREATISE The opefatipn is deferibed by many of :t})c old writers-% >vith fome liuall variation from each other, both in the rnai|ner, and in the inftriin[)e|:^ts; but all tending to the fame encj, ?ji4 ail pr9vi^3,g that tl^eir ide^ of the 4ife^fe, and of the |3arts sifFeded by it, were erroneous and imperfe^ft. TThe fatigue to the patient p\ift greater in this than in the preceding operatiqr^, both on account of |lie large incifion, and, 0^ tji? fllture.T:; fbui In fome habits either of thern muft be .ye^vy hazardous, an4 in the majority of cafes, paiii-j fill, troubkfome, and tedious ; which circumfT • stances rniglit neyerthelefs be fubniitte^ .t(]f^ if the cure; was certain,, tji^ contrarj ta vvfjk}} 4i4 m^ft frequently hapj3ieia,; .e;y-ei^^ by the ^(^^y feffioa qf,th,e very W^t^f.^ ^-^^ prp^of^..^ 4efcribe thefe methods, • and; w^q uriiY-€r.fa% prder tl^e long wearing a trufs affer fucji ape?--? ations hayp; been fubmitted to. .,\ Some, .who thought that the ftitph addecj um^eceffarily to thf pain, ; h%ye directed thf incifion to; be made in the fa.rne ni^^iper as for the future; but, inflead of iewing the hps r-' ' Paulus,'Albpcafis, Fab; ab AquapendeQte, Ouido, Rolan- 4us, Parey, Serjeant Wifeman/'&C &c. &c. .,;'p ^ together,GN RUPTURks. 167 together, have advifed that the commo'ft membrane be difleaed out pretty clean, and the fore d'lgefted and incarned. This is fo like to the operation for the iiicai-cierated bu- bonocele, both in the manner 6f making the incifion, and in its confequence, as tending toward a radical cure, that it may be looked upon as really the fame thing; and how very fallacious and uncertain that operation^ proves toward anfwering this end is too well known. Both thefe, the royalfiitch and the punfium mireum, proved often deftruflive to the teffi- cle, even in the moft judicious hands, and when it got into thofe of ignorant pretenders, it proved moft frequently fo ; for not know- ing how to perform pVoperly what they had tindertaken, and finding it much more eafy, after the incifion was made, to flip out the tefticle, they moft commonly did fo. Thefe are the principal methods propofed or practifed by our forefathers for a radical cure of a rupture; among the writers indeed will be found fome triflinsr variations from each other in the execution of them, but the intention and aim is the fame in all, viz. to prevent a new defcent of either gut or caul, by producing an union of the parts, through M 4 which,A TRteATISE Ivhich they either did or were fuppofed to pafs. According to the degree of anatomical knowledge, and humanity of the propofer, they will be found to be more or lefs rational and gentle; but are all of them painful, ha- zardous, and moft frequently fallacious, and have therefore been totally difufed by all mo- dern praditioners, who have either know- ledge, compaffion, or honefty. No difeafe has ever furniflied fuch a con- flant fucceffion of quacks as ruptures have; they who have had fome fmatteriiig of ana- tomy or furgery, and whofe humanity has not been their prevailing quality, have adopted one of the preceding operations, or fomething like them; while they who have had lefs knowledge, and more timidity, have had re- courfe to the more fneaking knavery of Ipe- cific applications. The hiftories of prior Cabriere, Bowles, Sir Thomas Renton, Dr. Little John, &c. &c. &c. to be found in Dionis, Houfton, and other writers, will furnifli to the reader an idea of the practice and performances of fome of thofe who flood at the head of thofe bold promifers : and, our prefent newfpapers daily fupply us with a number of the lefler dealers illON RUPTURES. 169 in fpeclfic medicines, and new-invented ban- dages-, by which the poor and credulous are gulled out of what little money they can fpare. Operative quackery is not indeed fo frequent, or fo readily fubmitted to; but I wifli I could not fay that more than one life has not been deftroyed in our own time, by attempts to form and fupport the.charafter of an operator in this difeafe: to this kind of hazard indeed the poor are luckily not fo li- able, as it can only be worth the while of thefe rupture-dodors to murder thofe who have beforehand been iimple enough to pay them well for it. < This is a fubje£l in which mankind are much interefted, and on which a good deal might be faid; but as an honeft attempt to fave the affli£led ftom the hands of thofe who have no character to lofe, and whofe only point is money, might, from one of the pro- feffion, be mifconftrued into malevolence and craft, I will not enter into it, but lhall con- clude by wifhing, that they who have capa- city to judge of thefe matters, (which are as much the objefts of common fenfe, as any other kind of knowledge) would not fuffer themfelves to be dehided by the impudent affertionsI 7^ A TREATISE' affertions of any Charlatan whatever, but de- termine in this, as they do in many other things, that is, by the event. In fhort, if they who have fo much creduhty, as to be incHned to beheve, and truft thefe lying im- poftors, would only defer the payment of them till they had completed their promifes, the fallacy would foon be at an end. A TREATISETREATISE ON THE HYDROCELE, OR WATERY RUPTURE, AND OTHER DISEASES OF THE TESTICLE, ITS COATS AND VESSELS; (illustrated WITH CASES,)7 fatisfied PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION. T^HE following tra<a:, as the title exprefles, is defigned aa a fupplement to one publiflied a few years ago; one of the Objeftions to which was, that it was defe£l:ive in matter, and ought to have comprehended the falfe herniae > they being as real difeafes, and requiring chirurgical afTiftance as much as the true. This deficiency I have now endeavoured to fupply in the beft manner I am able. When I began to put thefe papers in order, I did not think they would have run to fuch a length; and when they were finifhed, I did not know how to fliprten them without rendering them lefs explicit. I am perfe£tly fenfible that fome parts of them will ap- pear prolix and difFufe, and that fuch manner of writing is in general very juftly objeiled to; but yet cannot help thinking that fometimes it may be excufable, or even ne- ceflary. When application is made to the judgment merely, and information is intended to be conveyed to many people of different capacities, it may become neceflary to fet the fame obje£t in feveral different lights; and to repeat the fame thoughts many.times in different words: to thofe who have not been much converfant with the thins; treated of, a fta- died brevity would become a perplexing obfcurity} howeverPREFACE. A TREATISE fatisfied fuch readefs might be with the ftyle of the writer^ they would not be made fufficiently acquainted with the fub- jeil; they might be pleafed, but they would not be informed. I fhould indeed be very forry to have conveyed my mean- in fuch manner as to difguft the judicious; but as my princi- pal intention was to inftrudl the unknowing, my chief aim has been perfpicuity. If the learned and cHtical are not difpleafed, I fliall be glad; if the ignorant gain any know- ledge, I fliall be much more fo. The charadler of an ele- gant writer I make no pretenfion to ; that of a fkilful fur- geon, and of a man who has done fome good in the way of his profeffion, I fhould be extremely glad to deferve. With regard to this fecond edition, all I have to fay, Is^ that it has cofl me fome time and trouble ; that it contains many additions to the former; and, that I hope the reader will find it, not only a more corredtj but a more inftru<Sire bookkA TREATISE O If T H E HYDROCELE, &c. SECTION I. The various difeafes comprehended under the general term Hernia, have, by furgeons, been divided into two clafles ; one of which • thcj have diftinguifhed by the epithet truCj the other they have called falfe^ or fpurtous. Under the firft, they have ranged all thofe tumors, which are produced, either by the ckfcent^ or protnijton, of fome of thofi parts which (hould naturally be contained within the cavity of the abdomen j but v^^hich, by being difplaced from their proper lituation, form fwellings in the navel, groin, belly, fcrqtum, and thigh. I By176 'a treatise By the fecond, they mean all fuch difeafes of the teflicles, their coats, and veffels, as proceed from, or are accompanied by, the in- duration, enlargement, or other morbid af- fedion of fuch parts; or occafion the lodg- ment, or accumulation, of extravafated fluid within them. So that what are generally called true Her- ni(^ are tumors, occafioned by the removal of certain parts from their proper and natural fituation, fuch parts ftill remaining, in gene- ral, found, and free from difeafe; while thofe termed falfe^ are original diforders of the parts themfelves, in which they are feated: a dif- tindtion, which is invariably true, and very necelfary to be attended to, by all who would iunderftand the real nature of each. A part of the inteftinal canal, or of the omentum, the ftomach, uterus, or bladder, are what moii frequently make the contents of the former ; a varicous diftention of the fpermatic veffels, extravafated blood or water, within the mem- branes either of the tefticle or of the fper- ' matic veffels, an inflammatory enlargement, and a fcirrhous or cancerous ftate of the teflis itfelf, conftitutes the latter. The true hernice receive their diflinguifh-Vol. II. N" the I ON THfi HYDROCE-LE, &C. I^^ 5ng appellations, either from the particular part of the body in which the fwelling makes its appearance, or from what is contained within fuch tumor; and are therefore called higuinaI,fcrotal, umbilical, and ve7itral\ or in- teftinal and omental ruptures. The fpurious derive their names either from their fuppofed contents, ils the pneumatocele^ hce?natocele, arid ^hydrocele, or from the alteration made by the difeafe in the natural ftrudure of the parts concerned, as the varicocele, cirfoCele, and farcocek': to which fome have added that in- flammatory defluxion on the tefticle, com- monly called hernia humoralis. The pneumatocele is a miftake ; there is no tumor of this kind, and in this fituation, in a living animal: it is indeed particularly de- fcribed by many writers, both ancient and modern, and faid to be a diforder to which infants are particularly liable: but the com- plaint fo defcribed, and which nurfes and ig- norant people, do ftill call a zvind-rupture^ is not what they take it for; neither is it pro- duced by wind; it is, either a true intejlinal hernia, or a fpecies of hydrocele : which will be taken notice of hereafter. The varicocele (\^hich is an enlargement and diftention of' A TREATISE the blood-vefTcls of the fcrotum) is very fei- dom an original difeafe^ independent of any other; and when it is, is hardly an objeft of furgery. The circocek, or varicous ftate of the fper- matic vein, though it be really a difeafe, and fometimes very troubleforne to thofe who are a[ffli£ted with it, yet is feldom capable of much relief, beyond that of a fufpenfory bandag-e. SECT. II. OF THE HYDROCELE IN GENERAL. The term hydrocele, if ufed in a literal fenfe, means any tumor produced by water; but furgeons have always confined it to thofe which poffefs either the membranes of the fcrotum, or the coats of the tefticle, and its veflds. The firft of thefe, vi%. that which has its feat in the membranes of the fcrotum, is com- mon to the whole bag, and to all the cellular A . ' fub|3:ance6n the hydrocele, &c. ijf^ * jHibflance which loofely envelopes both the teftes. It is, ftri6lly fpeakingj only a fymp- tom of a difeafei in which the whole habit is moft frequently more or lefs concerned, and very feldom afFefts this part only \ The lat^ ter, or thofe which occupy the coats immedi- ately inverting the tefticle and its veffels, are abfolutely local, very feldom afFed the com- mon membrane of the ferotum, generally at- tack one fide only, and are frequently found ill perfons who are perfedlly free from all other complaints. Notwithftaiidiiig the obvious and material difference between the two kinds of difeafcj they have by the majority of writers been confounded together; have been confiderfed as fpringing froin the fame immediate fource^ and as requiring the fame kind of treatrrient; although the one is plainly and evidently a mere fymptom, or attendant on a general (iifoi'der ; and the others are Uridlly and ab- folutely local complaints. This one funda- mental error has been the occaiion of many others. The fuppofition that all coUeaions " I have feen a true anarfarcous watery diftention of the cells of the dartos confined to one fide of the ferotum only. N 2 foundI go A TREATISE found in the membranes and coats of the fcrO' turn and tefticles are of the fame general kind^ has produced an infinite variety of wild con- redures, concerning the particular and imme- diate nature and origin of them. By fome they have been attributed to a particular in- difpofition of the liver, kidneys, or fpleen; by others, to a natural and neceffary connediort between the fpermatic veflels and thofe of the kidney; by many the fluid has been thought to .be of the urinary kind, or at leaft that it ought to have paffed through the kidney, but that, miftaking its right way, it gets into the membyanes of the fcrotum and tefticles^; while Supervenit quandoque ex caufa aliqaa externa et mani- " fefta, ut iftu, cafu, &c. Crebro vero, ex latente, & non ma- nifefta. Qus ab externa caufa acceffit, aut dextrura, aut fs- niftrum renem indifFerenter affiglt; a latente vero, & non manifefta caufa originem ducens, nunquam alium quam fini- «» ftrum." Sehenkius, Obf. Rene, hec malo afFedto, nec officio fuo probe fungente, " urina; pars quam emulgens h^ec ad fe pertraxit, cum ad vefi- '« cam per male afFe^um renem non poteft defcendere, per fe- " mlnalem in erythroideam delabitur; hoc modo hydrocelem " ingenerans. « Hinc apparet et abunde mafufeftum eft, quamobrem hy- « drocele haud ab externa, fed a latente originem ducens, non » Pifv in finiftram membranam incidat; & hujus teftem affligat/' Sehenkius. " HerniaON THE HYDROCELE, ScC, iBl while others have affirmed, that all com- plaints of this kind are really fymptoms of a dropfical habit: that the fluid comes from the cavity of the belly, and either paffes through the peritoneum, or extends that membrane down into the fcrotum". Many cautions have been laid down againft attempting the cure of one fpecies of this difeafe haftily, or without a previous courfe of medicine, upon a fuppofi- tion that the defluxion is of a noxious nature; and that, by falling on this part, it frees the conftitution from feveral other diftempers^ " Hernia aquofa, fi a caufainterna etlatente orlginem ducit, *' ut plurimum finiftram partem fcroti occupat; ferofufque ille *' humor, in membrana teftem involvente, erytlirolden ditfta, " colligitur: idque fit proscipue, rene finiftro male affedo; qua- propter ferofos humores non attrahens, & ad veficam non mit- ** tens, per venam feminariam, quas in ifto latere, ex emulgente f procedit, in raembranara erythroiden delabitur." Gul. Fab. Hildanus, " Ne ferofus humor qui a rene attrahi non potell in abdo- mine retineatur." Hildanus. *' Si hernia fiat ex humoribus venientibus a renibus ad tef- ticulum, cognofcitur jaftu." Lanfranc. ' " Colligitur liquor in hypochondriis, qui facile defcendit.'* Fab. ab Aquapend. " Aliquando defcendit aqua illuc ficut defcendit in hydropl- " cis." Lanfranc. " Saepe ego vidi multos per hernias liberates effe a gravl- *' bus afFeftibus; ab empyemate, hydrope pulmonis, &c. unde " fi penitus fanetur, poterit multos morbos poftea inferre.'* Fallop ius. N3 ItA TREATISE It has been defcribed, as frequently producing a corrupted or other wife difcafed tefticle^; as being nearly allied in nature to thofe tumors which are called encyfled, whofe tunics are ^ formed out of the common membrane by mere prefTure; and as being generally accompanied with a true hernia, or defcent of the inteftine or omentum; which laft (fuppofed) circum- ftance has been gravely ui-ged as a reafon for not attempting a radical cure^ The fame v/anton " " Teftis autem fubllantia, ab acrimonia humorls, fucceflU temporis corrumpitur." Schenkius. *' Sciendum eft, quod in hernia ilia, in qua continetur aqua " in vagina teftis, & qua aliquantifper fit diuturna, corruptus eft teftis." Fallopius. " Ubi paulo diutius humor ifte intus relinquitur, metuendum *' eft no tefticulus fenlim, cum eodem corrumpitur, vel occ£^- " lefcat, atque ita fcirrhum, vel farcocelen, vel cancrum tandem *' fentiat." Heifter. *' Ne fcilicet colleftum in fcroto ferum per acredinem pau- ^' latim contradlam partes, internas, & cum primis tefticulum;, " corrumpat; & noxam magis periculofam efficiet." Heifter. " Notandum vero aquam in fcroto non eSe diu relinquen- *' dam ne a mora teftis corrumpatur; vel una cum aqua adve- *f • niat hernia carnofa & caro cbncrefcat." Fab. ab Aquapendente. The opinion of the late Mr . Chefelden on this fubjeft is fo fingular, and fo little confonant to truth, or Hature, that I lhaU take the liberty to repe.ii his words, left his great charader ;Piould miflead the unwary. In the laft edition of his anatomy, p. 264* he fays, " The true hernia aquofa is from the abdo-ON THE HYDROCELE, &C. I 83 wanton liberty has been taken, in affigning different feats to thefe diforders, as in account- ing for their origin: every part which iiivefts, or accompanies, the fpermatic veflels, or the tefticles, not only the tunica communis of the procefs, and the cavity of the tunica vagi- nalis (the true and real feats of one or other of thefe diforders) have been enumerated, but feveral imaginary ones have been added; firm, compa6t membranes have been fplit into la- mellae; and cyfts and coats have been devifed, which never had a real exlilence. If all this was matter of mere fpeculation, Jaird produced no mifchief in practice, it would be of no importance; but, in matters of phy- fie and furgery, this feldom or never happens : erroneous ideas of the nature, origin, and feats of men, which either extends the peritoneum into the fcrotum, " or breaks it; and then forms a new membrane, vyhich thick- ens as it extends, as in aneurifms and the atheromatous tu- " mors: the dropfy in the cyft (for fuch it properly is) rarely " admits of more than a palliative cure by punfture, or tapping, like the dropfy of the abdomen; and this with fome difficulty, " becaufe the omentum generally, and fonietimes the gut, de- " fcends with it." Which is fo far from being the cafe, that unlefs in the particular ^nd very fmgulajr inftance of a combin- ation of an hydrocele, with a congenial hernia, it never can .hap- pen ; the bags or facs of an hydrocele, and of a hernia, being in ?11 other inftances totally diiferent j and the former never having ^ny communication w/th the belly. N 4 difeafes,4 184 A TREATISE difeafes, moft commonly are followed by im«« proper methods of treating them. In the prefent cafe, the abfurdity of the conjedures concerning thefe circumftances in the difor- der, is fully equalled by the methods of cure which have been propofed and pradifed. Upon a fuppofition, that the extravafation of fluid was the confequence of a dropfical habit, ftrong purges and powerfully diuretic medicines have been prefcribed; actual caute- ries have been ufed; and Ugatures and inci- Cons made, both on the fpermatic veflels and in the groin, to hinder the defcent of the wa- ter from the cavity of the bellyaftringent liquors " EJt cum totam evacuaverls aquam, cauteriza locum quen:\ '* aperuifti; & fac duo cauteria punftualia in inguina, ex utra-»' *' que parte unum, fupra didymum; quod fi non cauterizes, aqua " iterum redit. Sed cauteria redire materiam iterum non per- " mittunt." Lanfranc. " Et iterum redit nifi cauterizetur pofl perforationem." Brunus, *' In apertione duplex eft intentio, fcilicet aperire & prohi- " bere ne rurfus aqua defcendat," Fab. ab Aquapend. " Avicennas utitur ferramentis candentibus in regioneingui« ** nis ut corrugatur purs, ne aqua pofTet defcendere." Fab. ab Aquapend. " Sin autem in rene vitium non fuerit, & defluxum plane im- •* pedire volueris, ineifionem, fuperiore parte fcroti prope in- ** guina, fieri expedit 5 quandoquidem duplex chirurgo eft fco- *' pus;ON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 185 liquors and ardent fpirits have been injefted, with a view to clofing or foldering broken lymphatics; tedious and painful operations have been praftifed, for the eradication of imaginary cyfts; direftions have been given tq evacuate the water at different times, left the patient's ftrength fhould fail, or his health fuffer, by its being done too fuddenly; and the tefticles being fuppofed to be frequently fpoiled, by long laying in the water, caftra- tion has often been performed in the fimple hydrocele. Dr. Monro (the father) who is profeflbr of anatomy at Edinburgh, and Mr. Samuel Sharp, late furgeon to Guy's hofpital, are almoft the only writers, who have fenfibly and rationally explained th'e true nature and theory of thefe difeafes: to them the profeffion is greatly obliged, for having thrown much light on the fubjed:; and for having furnifhed their readers with more juft ideas than any others. '* pus; prior evacuare ferofum humoreta, pofterlor prohibcre " ne de novo aqua in fcrotum defluat.'' " Et quia tota aqua in tunica ilia, (nempe vagirtali) continew. " batur, ita ut lefliculus ei innataret, ne in pofterum denuo de- " fcenderet aqua acu incurvato ac filo reduplicato univerfam " hanctunicam (praiter vafa feminalia) apprehendi & mediocri- y ter conftrinxi, atque ligavi." Fab. Hildanus. SECT.A TREATISE i86 SEC T. III. The fpermatic veflels, like mofl of the contents of the abdomen. He behind the peri- toneum, enveloped in the common tela cellu- Ipfa, or what ufed to be called the cellular appendix of the peritoneum. The arteries, which are two, arife from the trunk of the aorta, in the midway between the emulgent, and lower mefenteric. At their origin they are very fmall, and, contrary to all the other arteries of the body, they feem rather to in- creafe in diameter as they defcend. In their paffage downward, they impart feveral branches to the ^cellular membrane which inverts them; and before they arrive at the tefticles, they are divided into four or five principal ones; one of thefe goes to the epi- didymis, the others .to the t?fl:is; the latter having pafled the tunica albuginea, and being convoluted in a mofl wonderful manner, compofes the greateft part of the body of that gland: from thefe convolutions of the fper- matic artery, • the femen is fecreted : which fluid is, after fuch fecretion, immediately re- ceivedON THE HYDROCELE, &C. i2y ceived by thofe particular veffels, which late anatomifts have agreed to call the vafa effe* rentia. Thefe vary in their number, in dif- ferent fubje6ls, being frorn ten to' fifteen, more or lefs: when colle£led together they form the globus major, or larger extremity of that body, which, from its fituation, is called epididymis j after this, they unite into one fnigle tube, which being convoluted and con- torted, in the moft miraculous manner, con- ffitutes the reft of that fame body: fo that the "whole of the epididymis, except that imme- diate point which is formed by the concur- rence of the vafa efferentia, does really confift of one fingle tube, whofe diameter is faid, iti no part, to exceed the eightieth of an iiich, but which is contorted fome thoufands of times; and if unravelled, and drawn out, is. fpme yards in length. From the leiTer ex- tremity of the epididymis proceeds the vas deferens, or that tube through which the fe- men is conveyed from the teftis toward the penis; or, in other words, when this wonder- ful tube ceafes to be convoluted, and puts on the appearance of one fingle, fmooth velTel, it is then called vAs deferens. This arifes from the lelTer end of the epididymis, enveloped in the fame common tela cellulofi, in which the fperniatic188 A TREATISE fpermatic artery and vein are inveftedj an<i when it has got jufl above the edge of the os pubis, it feparates from the faid veffels, and paffing down behind the peritoneum, pro- ceeds to the inferior part of the neck of the bladder, vi^here it depofits the femen, in the receptacles appointed for that purpofe, called the veliculae feminales. The blood, after the feminal fecretion is performed, returns back into the general mafs, by the fpermatic vein ; which on the right fide empties itfelf into the vena cava, and on the left into the emulgent. While the fpermatic veflels are within the cavity of the belly, the cellular membrane, in which they are enveloped, is much more lax and tender, and is endued with larger cells, than it is on the outfide of the fame cavity. As they go under the tranfverfalis, and obli- quus'mternus mufcle, apd through the obli- quus externusj they receive a confiderable ad- dition of cellular membrane from the adjacent parts; and, when they have paffed through the tendinous aperture of the laft named mufcle, they, together with their cellular tunics are » The p^ffage of the fpermatic veflels umkr twot)f the muf- cles, and through the third, is a circamftance of much import- ance*ON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 1 7 veffels. are covered b^, and enveloped in, that expan- fion of mufcular fibres, called the cremafter. The membrane furrounding all that part of the fpermatic veffels, which is on the outfide of the abdomen, is called the tunica commu- nis, or tunica vaginalis of the chord ; and is (as has already been faid) merely cellular; totally void of all other cavity than its cells; firmly adherent to the furface of the faid ance, and what every praditioner ought to be well acquainted with. The common doftrine is, that in each of the oblique mufcles and in the tranfverfalis is a tendinous aperture, for the tranfit of the fpermatic chord; and thefe fuppofed openings are called the rings. This is a miftake, which even fome very modern writers in anatomy have fallen into: and left their words Ihould not convey an idea fufficiently erroneous, fome of them have given us drawings of all thefe openings in regular gradations, above and behind each other. Nothing can be more falfe than fuch reprefentation: the fpermatic veffels do never pafs tbrought but always under the tranfverfalis and obllquus internus, at fuch diftance as never to be affefted by their aftlon, or to fulFer any ftrifture or ftrangulation from them. On the contrary, the fpermatic chord always paffes through an opening made for that purpofe in the tendon of the obliquus extemus; the aflion of which it is liable to be afFedted by; and when it is accom- panied by a portion of inteftine (as in the cafe of an hernia) it is this tendinous aperture which produces the ftriflure, the fymptoms, and the hazard. A circumftance of great confe- quence for every man to know, who may ever be called upon to operate oa a ftrangulated hernia.^9^ A TREATISE Veilels, -in every part; and plentifully fur-' nifhed with lymphatics. . It is of very great importance to have a jufi idea of the ftrudure of this part of the funi- culus fpermaticus ; the old term, tunica va- ginalis j conveyed a very falfe one: it im- plied, that the veffels were contained within it, as in a Iheath, and that^ if the faid veflels were not there, this coat would form an £mpty bag, eonfifling of one cavity only 5 than which nothing can be more untrue''. This is one great fource, from whence many of the errors^ which have been com- mitted in the defcription of fuch difeafes, as have (or are fuppofed to have) their feat iii this part, have fprung; and therefore I take the liberty of repeating, that this tunic has . Even M. da la Faye, whofe notes on Dionis have reridered the works of the latter more ufeful, has fallen into the common miftake with regard to this tunic, by fuppdfing both it and the vaginalis to be formed out of the fairie membrane, and al- lotting a. cavity or bag to tKe forn»ef. II faut remarquer, ** qus la tunique vaginale, et la gairte du cordon fpermatique " font une continuation du tiffue celluleux du peritoine, qui *' s'allonge pour enveloper le tefticule ; a I'endroit, ou 'eette " continuation s'elargit, la nature a forme une cloifoh qui em- ** peche la communication qui fe trouVeroit entre I'interieur " de la gaine du cordon fpermatique, et celui de la tunique "vaginale/' De la Faye-. noON THE HYDROCELE, &C. ipf no one particular cavity, but is a mere cellu-^ lar membrane throughout its whole extent; and that it terminates, in a great meafure, • juft above the epididymis, though a continu- ation of it may be traced on the furface of the tunica vaginalis teftis. The coats of the tefticle are two only; viz. the tunica vaginalis, or that bag which loofely inverts it, without any adhefion to it, except in one particular part; and the tunica albuginea, or that membrane, which is the immediate and proper covering of its vafcular ftrudlure. A true and clear idea of thefe is abfolutely neceffary to the right underftand- ing the difeafes to which this gland is fubjed. In order to obtain fuch idea, the tefticles mult be examined, not only in an adult ftate, but in the infantine, and in that before birth alfo; each of thefe ftates having its peculiarities, and all tending to explain the true nature of fuch maladies, as it is frequently fubjed to. , The tefticles of the human fpecies are al- ways formed within the cavity of the belly, and remain there until or very near unto the time of birth. While they are within the abdomen, they are covered by one coat only; which coat firmly adheres to the vafcular flrudlurctgz A TREATISE ilru6ture of them, and. 19 evidently derivedl fronm the peritoneum, in the fame manner as the outer coat of each of the vifcera of the faid cavity is. Their fituation, during the firft months, is higher than in the latter ; and as the foetus increafes in fize, they flip gradually lower. Within the cavity of the abdomen, on each fide, a little below the tefles, is a fmall opening, or orifice, which leads imme- diately into a fmall but firm membranous bag, or cyft, whofe upper part, or neck, paffes through the opening in the tendons in the obliqui externi mulcles; while its lower part or facculus, lies on the outfide of the faid mufcles in the groin, enveloped in the com- mon tela celiulofa. Thefe orifices are always open until birth; and, moft frequently, foi* fome while after; during all which fpace of time, the faid facculi have free and open com- munication with the cavity of the belly. By means of thefe orifices the tefticles pafs from the cavity of the abdomen, through the tendinous apertures, into the facculi in the groins; but the time in which they make this traiifit is by no means certain : fometimes it is juft before birth, fometimes juft after, fometimes they drop immediately into the fcrotum.ON THE HYDROCELE, &C; 193 ifcrotum, and fometimes they remain a confi- derablc time in the groins ; and it now and then happens, that they never pals through the mufcie at all, but remain for ever within the belly* Thefe are a kind of lufus naturae; but in the ordinary courfe, they foon pafs from the groins into the ferotal bags, the communication between the faid bags and tka belly continuing open fome little time longer. When the tefticles are got fairly down into the faccuh^ if the faid facculi be laid open^ it will appear that the tefticles are loofely en- veloped by them) in fuch a manner as to be perfeftly free from all cohefion, ekcept in one partj where this bag and the proper coat of the teflicle (the' albuginea) are fo firmly united, as to be plainly and demonftrably a continuation of one and the fame membrane. And while the communication with the belly continues free and open, if the facculi be di- vided from the bottom upward^ it will as evi- dently appear, that the membrane of which they are compofed is a continuation, or pro- cefs of that part of the peritoneum which lines the mufcles of the abdomen. Some time after birth, thenecks of thefe fiiccuh become clofe and in^ervious; and Vol. 11. Q from194 A TREATISE from that time all communication between their cavities and that of the belly ceafes. The time when this happens is various and uncertain; I have feen them perfectly clofed within a week, and open at. the end of twa months, nor do they both iieeeffarily be- come clafe at the fame time, in the fame fubje£t. It fometimes happens, that while thefe paf- fages are open, a piece of intefline infmuates iffelf into one of them, and, preventing its clofmg, produces what Haller calls a: conge- nial hernia; a difeafe which, though a mo- dern difcovery, has always been very, fre- quent. It alfo fometimes happens, that the fpermatic veifels not being fufficiently clofed, one of the tefticles refts in the groin, juft without the opening in the abdominal muf- cle, and by not becoming pendulous in the fcrotum, the orifice of the neck of the faccu- lus is not clofed at all; even though no por- tion of gut or caul has got into it. When thefe orifices have been onee per- feaiy clofed, there never is any futur^ com- munication between the cavities of the facculi and that of the belly ; nor can anything folid or fluid (however fmall in fize or quantity) ever.ON rUE HYDROCELE, &c. ip^ fever, after this period-, pafs from the one to the other. The lipper part, or neck, now lofes all appearance of a diftindl canal, and the lower part, or fac, loofelj inverts the tefticle, and its epididymis, without any adhefion, ex'- cept in the hinder part. The infide or cavity of this fac is conftantly kept moift, by the exudation of a fine fluid; which fluid is as conftantly abforbed : fo that while thefe parts enjoy a found healthy ftate, the fluid is no more in quantity, than what juft ferves to lubricate and keep moift the furfaces of both membranes, and thereby prevent any unna- tural cohefion of them with each other. From thefe premifes the following infer- ences, ferving to point out and explain the true nature and feat of fome of the difeafes iu queflion, may, I think> be deduced. 1. That the facculi, or bags, found in the groins, are originally-formed parts. 2. That they are placed there for the fu- ture reception of the tefticles; and that when the upper part, or neck, of one of them be- comes clofe and impervious, the lower part, or facculus, conflitutes and forms what is properly called the tunica vaginalis teftis; O 2 - which196 A TREATISE which is therefore a true and original procefs of the peritoneum. 3. That of all the parts contained withIii the fcrotum, thefe facculi are the only ones which ever naturally communicate with the cavity of the belly. 4. That, after a certain fpace of time, that communication ccafes. 5. That whatever fluid may be fhed from the fpermatic veflels, or coUefted, or extra- vafated, in the cells of the tunica Communis, or in thofe of the dartos; yet no part of fuch fluid can be derived from, or received inter the cavity of the tunica vaginalis teftis. 6. That a total failure of the fecretion of that fine fluid, which fliould moiflen the in- lide of the vaginal tunic, and the outfide of the albuginea, muft be followed by an unna- tural cohefion of thefe membranes with each other ; and either a partial or total abolition of the cavity of the fprmer. 7. That if more of this fluid be depofited than the abforbent veflels, can take up, or if the abforbent veflels do not execute their of- fice, fuch fluid muft be accumulated within the cavity of the faid tunic; from which there being no natural outlet, the confeq^uence muftON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 197 -jnuft be a gradual diftention and enlargement of it. 8. That the natural communication be- tween the cavity of the tunica vaginalis and the bellj, not being fliut until fome fpace of time after birth, it may become clofe at its upper part, while there is a quantity of fluid in the lower, too large for the abforbent vef- fels to take up immediately; and confequently, that fuch infant will, until that office be exe- cuted, labour under a true hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis teftis; a cafe, which is very frequent, though generally miftaken for a wind-rupture. And, 9. That the fluid of that kind of hy- drocele, which is formed by the fac of a congenial hernia, muft be lodged within the cavity of the vaginal coat; while all collec- tions of ferum, in the facs of all other kinds of herniae, muft neceffarily be perfefbly dif». tind from the faid tunic, I jfhould now proceed to the examination of each diftin<fl: fpecies of hydrocele, but will intrude upon my reader's patience while I mention a circumftance or two, relative to the paflage of the tefticle from the belly into • O 3 - the1981- . A TREATISE the fcrotum 5 and which, as a praClitioneF, he may poffibly think worth his attention. . I haye fard, that the time in or at which the teftides pafs from the belly, through the groin, into the ferotum, is by no means cer- tain; that it varies indifferent people; that even in the. fame perfon, tlie two teftes da not alwaya pafs down at the fame time; that fometimes both of them, fometimes one, re- mains within the belly, or in the groin, for a confiderable fpace of time after birth j and that it now and then happens, that one or both of them neyer.: get into the ferotum at all. I do not know any particular inconvenience arifing from the detention of a tefticle -within the cavity of the belly ; but the lodgment of it in the groin^ not only renders, it .liable to be hurt by accidental prefllire, &c. hut when it i^fo. hurt may be the caufe of its being mif- taken for a different difeafe^ and thereby occa-. fion its being very improperly treated. To which cpnliderations, this may, be added,-that t^ere is no Js^ind of difeafe, to whi^h the tefti- ele i$ liable in its natural fituation, but what may.alfcaffea it, in any or all its unnatural ccies, « CASEON THE HYDROCELE, &C. O 4 turned; g A S E L 1 WAS feiit to in a great hurry, from the jieighbourhood of Limehoufe, and defu-ed to f)ring with me, whatever I might wapt for the operation of a bubonocele. I found a young, healthy, feafaring man, lying acrofs his bed, and complaining of moft acute pain in his groin and back. He told me, that " in the forenoon of the day before, being at work, -on board his own veffel, he fell, and ftruck his groin againft a piece of timber, with great violence; that it gave him fuch exquiiite pain, that he fainted away; that his groiii became immediately fwollen to a very confi;-- derable degree; that as foon as he could get home, he applied to his apothecary, who bled him, put him to bed, and poulticed the tu- mor; that he pafled the night without fleep, and'in great agony; that when his apothecary came to him the next morning, he (the pa- tient) informed him of a circumftance, which, in his confufion, he had forgot the night be- fore, viz. that he had long had a rupture orx that fide, which had never been perfedlly re-.A TREATISE turned; that, upon receipt of this information, the apothecary had bled him again, and had taken fome pains to return the rupture; but finding that he made no progrefs, and that his. attempts produced great increafe of pain, he had delifled, and had giyen him two glyfters^ and a purge; neither of which pccafioning fuch difcharge as he expeded, and a kind of blacknefs now beginning to appear on the part, he defired immediate .affiftance." By the time this account was finifhed, the apo- thecary came in, and confirmed it. The pain was exquifite; and while I was alking the patient a few queftions, he became very fiok, and vomited. The groin and fcro- tuni were much fv/elled, and very hard; but the general figure and appearance of the tumor . did not appear to me like that of a bubonocele: inftead of pointing obliquely from the iliuin toward the pubes, it lay, as it were, acrofg the groin: the fcrotum was full and large; bvit I thought it felt much harder than I had ever found a piece of jnteftine do; and with regard to the ,alteration of colour, I cannot fay it gave me much uneafinefs; for it was not at all like the cfFed' of mortification, but had ^|1 the appeaiv'^nce of an extravalation, or ec- * • chymofisuON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 20t chymofis. On the other hand, the man had not had a fair ftool for three days; he had been very fick, and had vomited; his belly was tight, hard, and painful; and his pulfe much too quick. From examination of the tumor, I could get very little information; for the pain was fo exquifite, that he could not bear the flighteft touch : however, from what examination I could make, it appeared to me, that if this was an inteftinal hernia, it was fuch an one as I had never yet met with; and nothing but the circumftance of his hav- ing worn a trufs formerly, by the dire£lion of a furgeon of character, could have induced me to have entertained fuch fufpicion. I in- quired again concerning this rupture, and was told, that he had worn a trufs for it the firfl four years of his infancy, but that it never kept the gut totally or perfectly up • and that he grew bigger, and ran about, he was obliged to leave it-ofF, on account of the pain it gave him: that fince he had left it off, he had not obferved any, or very little alteration in the tumor, (none in its fituation, though a little in its fize;) and that it had never given him any trouble or uneafinefs, if he did not handle it, or kept the waiftband of his breechesA TREATISE .and his watch from preffiiig it. All this was far from being fatisfaftory: and as the prefent ftate- of the parts was fuch, as was by no means favourable for an operation, I deter- mined, previous to any other attempt, to try what a brilk cathartic would produce. A fti- mulating glyfter was immediately thrown up, and a folution of an ounce and a half of Glau- ber's fa-Its in two ounces of inf. fenae fwal^i lowed^ which, in little more than an hour, produced fo plentiful a difcharge, that the belly became foft and eafy, and we were per- fectly free from all apprehcnfions of a ftric- ture. Fomentation, poultice, &c. w^re fre- quisritly. applied to the tumor, which in three or four days .began tofubfide; and in about feven or eight the fcrotum was fo unloaded as to. permit eafy and accurate examination ; by^i^whiph means we were fatisfied, that it contained no tefticle. Upon mentioning this circumftance to the patient, he faid that he never had one on that fide. This declaration was a folution of all difficulties, and of all the appearances. ; When all the effeds of the blow were removed, there appeared in the groin,'juft on this.fide of the opening in .the abdominal- tendon, -a. tellicle of natural fize andON" THE HYDROCELE, &C. 203 aiid figure; which tefticle, by being much briiifed, had caufed all the mifchief, C A S E ir. A POOR man came to St. Bartholomew's hofpital, and defired affiftance for a fwellino- in his groin; for which he had, for a month before, been taking Jefuit's drops and other quack medicines, till he had not a farthing left. Upon removing an adhefive plafter, I found a tumor which was large and painful; but at the fame time fo moveable, as to be very, unlike any affeftion of' the ingumal glands. The account which the man gave was, that " he had always had a lump in that ^roin, and never any tefticle on that fide; that when young, he had worn a trufs for it, upon a fuppofition of its being a rupture ; that when he came to work for his living, he could no longer bear the uneafmefs which the trufs gave him, and therefore had left it off for years: that hnce that time he had never perceived any material alteration in the tu- mor, nor had it ever given him any trouble, till he had got a clap about two months be- fore; upon the fuddendifappearance of which,. the2-04 ^ TREATISE l&e lump in his groin became large and pain- ful.'* In fhort, the man had got a hernia hiimo* ralis of the tefHcle in his groin; which, by means of proper treatment, bleeding, cata- plafm^ apd reft, he foon got well of. CASE III. A MIDDLE-AGED man came to St. Bartho' iomew*s, for advice for a tumor in his groin. ' He was apparently in good health ; the tu- mor was of an oval or egg-like form, indo- knt when not preffed, perfedly moveable, lay juft in the groin, and had by more than one perfon been miftaken both for bubo and bu- bonocele. When handled or prefted rudely in confequence of the latter opinion, it was painful for fome hours after j and the pains (to ufe his own words) always fhot up into his back. It was on the left fide ; on which fide-there was no tefticle in the fcrotum, nor had there ever been one; but on the right fide every thing was as it Ihould be. He faid that within two years it had been confi- aerably enlarged; and that it now was become very trp^blefome to him. ^ ItON THE HYDROCELE, &:C. 205 It appeared very plainly to me that the tu- mor was caufed by the left tefticle; which teflicle was in a difeafed ftate, but very fit for, and very capable of extirpation. I ad- vifed the man to fubmit to the operation, and he had complied; but the late Mr, Griffiths (one of our then affiftants) coming into the ward, I defired him to look at the cafe. Whether he did not attend to all the circum- ftances, or for what other reafon, I know not; but he took it into his head, that it was a tu- mor of another kind, that might be removed by internal medicine; and diflliaded the man from undergoing what I had propofed : upon which I did not take him into the hofpitaL Some mohths after, the fwellins: becomins: larger and more troublefome, he applied to St. George's hofpitaL The gentlemen there gave him the fame opinion, and the fame ad- vice which I had given him; he fubmitted, and got a cure, by the removal pf a tefliqle which had never been lower than his 2:roin, and which was now bpcome fcirrhous. CASE IV. The late Mr. Hollingworth defn-ed me to go with him to fee a patient in. the neigh- bourhood2q6 A TREATISE bourhood of Clerkenwell. It was a man about fifty-five years old, who had a large ulcerated cancerous turhor in his right groin, with high callous edges; it always difcharged a large quantity of a moft ofi'enfive gleet; at times it bled profufely, and was always ex- tremely painful. The patient faid, that when firft it became troublefome, he had fliewed it to two emi- nent rupture-curers; one of whom faid, that it was a piece of caul, and offered, for twenty guineas, to cure him by cutting it out: the other, (more modeft, or lefs hardy,) only- fold him two bandages for it; neither of which he could ever wear. When Mr. Hollingworth carried me to fee it, it had jnft been left by a cancer-curer, who had applied to it an efcharotic ; and which, by the patient*s account, as well as by the appeai-ance of the fore, had made terrible havQck. During all this time, no one who had feen him (and what is ftill more remarkable) not even the patient himfelf had remarked, that in that fide of the fcrotum he had no tefticle* The ftatc, both of the man and of the fore, forbad any chirurgical procefs; and my advice to him was to drefs the fore lightly, and have recourfeON THE HYDROCELE, &C. recoiirfe to tin£l. thebaic, for eafe : which ad- vice he followed, during the fhort remainder of his life. When dead we examined him, and found that the difeafe confifted in a cancerous tefticie * lying in the groin; the fpermafic veflels of which were varicofe, and knotty all the way up to the kidney, having here and there a bladder of vellow ferum in the cellular mem- brane : the lymphatic glands about the verte- brae of the loins were difeafed, as w^as the liver; and on the furface of the right kidney was a colledlion of offenlive fanies. SECT. IV. THE ANASARCOUS TUMOR OF THE SCROTUM. The fcrotum is the common receptacle of both the tefticles, and confifts of the cuticula; cutis, and what all the anatomifts have now agreed to call the dartos; which is a loofe cellular membrane, perfeftly void of fat, and whofe cells or cavities communicate with each other.A TREATISE Other, with the utmoft freedom through every parti As this nieinbrane has no immediate com- munication with the cavity of the abdomen within the peritoneum, it is plain, that what- ever kind or quantity of fluid may be depo- lited in it, it cannot be derived from the faid cavity, even though the patient fhould labour under a true afcites; but as its cells have a free intercourfe with thofe of the general cel- lular membrane all over the body, they will be liable to be afFeded by all thofe diforders which have their feat in that membrane j that is, by all diforders proceeding from a low im- poverifiied ftate of blood, from a deficiency of the urinary fecretion, or from non-execution of the office of the abforbent veffels; and con- fequently, in anafarcous and leucophlegmatic habits, will becotne the feat of Jl watery ex- travafation. This watery fwelling of the fcrotum, al- though it be moft frequently a fymptom of a dropfical habit, and very often accompanies both the general anafarca, and the particular colle£tion within the abdomen, called the af- cites, yet, even in the latter cafe, neither is, nor can be, derived from the cavity of the belly.I 01^ THE Hl^DROCEi:>E, &C. 209 belly, but is confined to the tela cellulofa, which lies on the outfide of the peritoneum : the water derived from hence diftends the fcrotum, in the fame manner, and for the fame reafons, that it often does the legs' arid feet. The cells of the dartos being larger aiid kbfolutely void of fat, and the (kin wliicli covers them being extremely dilatable, and giving way for a larger influx into this part than into moft others, has indeed occafioned its being taken notice of as a particular dif- eafe,- though it is moft properly a fymptom only.' This being the cafe, and the true method of cure Goiififting ill an internal medical pro- cefs, it has been, I think, improperly ranked among the fpecies of hydrocele ; though the nature of the contents will certainly admit the ufe of the word. It is indeed a difeafe, which properly be- longs to the phyficians ; but as it is of fome, confequence, to be able to diftinguifli it from other diforders affeaing the fame, or the. neighbouring parts, and as furgeons are often' called upon to affift in alleviating fome of the" inconveniences which this defluxion produces,' it cannot be amifs in this place, to give a (hort' "^OL. II. p accountaiO A TREATISE account of it, and of the moft proper chirur- gical method of attempting its relief. It is an equal, foft tumor, poffeffing every part of the cellular membrane, in which both the tefticles are enveloped, and confequently is generally as large on one fide as on the Other; its leaves the Ikin of its natural co- lour ; or, to fpeak more properly, it does not redden or inflame it; if the quantity of water be not large, nor the diftention great, the Ikin preferves fome degree of rugolity; the tumor has a doughy kind of feel; eafily receives, and for a while retains the impreffion of the fingers; the raphe or feam of the fcrotum divides the fweUing nearly equally; the fper- matic procefs is perfectly free, and of its na- tural fize ; and the tefticles feem to be in the middle of the loaded membrane. This is the appearance, when the difeafe is in a moderate degree. But "if the quantity of extravafated feriim be large, or the difeafe farther ad- vanced, the Ikin, inftead of being wrinkled, is fmooth, tenfe, and plainly Ihews the lim- pid flate of the fluid underneath: it is cold to the touch, does not fo long retain the impref- fion of the finger, and is always accompanied with a fimilar diftention of the Ikin of the(DN THfe HYDROCELE, 6cc. ill j3fenis ; the prepiitium of which is fometimes jfo enlargedj and fo twifted, and diftorted, as- to make, a very difagreeable ■ appearance. Thefe are the local fymptoms : to which it may be added^ that a yellow countenance, a lofs of appetite, a deficiency of urinary fecre- tion, fwelled legs, a hard belly, and mucous ftools, are its very frequent companions. The cure of the original difeafe comes, as I have already faidj within the province of the phyfician, and requires a courfe of inter- nal medicine : but fometimes the loaded fcro- tum and penis are fo troiiblefome to the pa- tient, and in fuch danger of rhortification^ t'hat a reduction of their fize becomes abfo- lutely neeeflary; and at other times a deriva- tion, or difcharge, of the redundant extrava- fated ferum from this part is ordered as an af- fiftant to the internal regimen. The chirurgical means in ufe for this end is called in general fcarificationa term, whofe precife fenfe has by no ineans been fettled ; by which it has now and then hap- pened, that a general order being given, and the particular method of executing it beino- left to the choice of thofe who have not been fufficiently acquainted with this kind of bufi- P 2 nefs»312 A TREATISE nefs, much hazard has, been incurred, and Nconfiderable mifehief done, which might have been avoided. The means of making this difcharge are two> viz. pun<5lure and incifion : the former is made with the point of a lancet; the latter with the fame inftrument, or with a knife. The generality of writers on this fubje6t have fpoken on the two methods in fuch a manner, that a praftitioner^ who had feen but little of either, would be inclined to think, that it was a matter of great indifference, which we fhould make ufe of; and that the fafety and utility of each were equal: which is by no means the cafe. The intention of the ufe of either is, by a difcharee of extravafated fcrum, to alleviate the prefent uneafniefs ; and, by reducing the fize of the fcrotum, to render it lefs trouble- fome, and lefs likely to mortify. In fome f^w inflances it has indeed happened, that this drain has proved a radical cure of the original difeafe ; but that has been accidental, and is not in general to be expeded. The intention is generally palliative; and, if the patient jive's, is moft likely to require repetition: therefore, if there be any difference between theON THE HYDTIOCELE, &C, 213 the two methods, with regard either to eafe or fafety, there can be no doubt which ought to be preferred. All wounds of membranous parts, in anafar- cons or dropiical habits, are neceflarily both painful and hazardous; they are apt to inflame, are very difficultly brought to fuppuration, and will often prove gangrenous infpite of all endeavours to the contrary. But the larger and deeper the wounds are, the more probable are thefe bad confequences. Simple punc- tures, with the point of a lancet, are much lefs liable to be attended by them, than any other kind, of wound; they generally leave the (km ealy, foft, cool, uninflamed, and in a . ftate to admit a repetition of the fame oper- ation, if neceffary. Incifions create a painful, crude, hazardous fore, requiring conftant care. Pun6lures feldom produce any uneaiii- nefs at all; and ftand in need of only a fuper- ficial pledget, for dreffing. Now, although there is fo very material a difference in the fymptoms and trouble attend- ing the two methods, yet there is none in their effeft: the communication of the cells of the dartos with each other is fofree, through every part of it, that pun6lures made with the P q fine2r'4 A TREATISE fine point of a bleeding lancet, into the moft fuperficial of them, will, as certainly and as freely, drain off all the water, as a large inci- fiohj without any of it's inconveniences or its hazard. Neither the one nor the other will cure the original difeafe, unlefs by mere acci^ dent: they are both made, with a defign to cure only the local one. The fame habit and ■conftitution remaining, the fame efFeft will in general follow, and the fame relief be again neceflary. The eafe, the freedom from bad fymptoms, or from danger, and the ftate in whi'Ch the parts afe left, render one method practicable at all times, and capable of being repeated as often as may be thought neceflary: the fatigue, pain, confinement and hazard which moft frequently attend the other, make one experiment in general as much as moft people chufe to fubmit to, or indeed haye an opportunity of complying with. C A S E V. A MAN about fifty-five years old, who had lived freely, was affiiaed with an analar<ious tumor of the belly, legs thighs, fcrotum, and penis, accompanied with the general fymp- tomsON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 21 § toms which moft frequently attend fuch com- plaints, viz. proflration of appetite; Httle, and that high-coloured urine; a hard belly; and a bloated face. He had taken many medicines by the direc- tion of a phyfician in the country, and more than one .quack-remedy fmce he had been in London, but to no purpofe: the watery load increafed daily, and the fwelling of the penis and fcrotum became fo troublefome, as to pre- vent his wearing breeches. In thefe circumftances, a perfon who at- tended'him in the capacities of apothecary and furgeon, propofed to draw off the water by an incJion on €ach fide of the fcrotum; to which the patient confented. The incifions were made, and in a few hours the fcrotum was empty and flaccid. At the diftance .of five days from this oper- ation, his furgeon died, and -I was defired to -vifit him. I found him in bed, with, a painful, foul, undigefted fore, on each fide of the fcrotum ; which, though it had at firft been emptied by the incifion, was now again confiderably loaded'with ferum, but at the fame time haid and inflamed: the edges of-the wounds were P 4 livid,2l6 A TREATISE livid, the difcharge from them was a difcoi loured gleet j and the pain was fo great, that the man could get no reft; his pulfe was fre- quent, hard and fmall; his breathing not per-; feiflly free; his urine little, and high-coloured ; his thirft very troublefome; his .belly hard and tight; and having taken an opiate every night from the time of the operation, he had not haci a ftool for three days paft. I dreffed the incifions with a foft digeftive; and covering the whole fcrotum with a warrn poultice, tied it up in a bag trufs; directed a glyfter to be thrown up immediately, and a purge to be taken the next morning: from which in the following day he had four or £ve ftools, and by which his refpiration was ■ relieved, and his belly rendered fofter. Next day the inflammatory hardnefs of th^ fcrotum Xeemed to be going off, but to be fuc- . ceeded by an emphyfematous kind of tume- fa6tion ; and in four days from that of pny firfl vifit to him, the vvhole bag was in a ftate of mortification, notwithftanding the confta^t ufe of fomentation, cataplafm, &c. Having already taken a large quantity of medicine of different kinds, it was with much difficulty that I could prevail on him t9 fiear ofON THE HYDROCELE, &C, 217 ©f any more: but upon making a true repre- fentation to him of the ftate of his cafe, and of his imminent hazard, he confented to take the bark, with fome confe6t. cardiac, and tmd:, j:ad. ferpent. every three or four hours. But putting a tea-fpoonful of brandy into each dofe, it kept upon his flomach. At the end of three days, the pain and forenefs were confiderably leflened; and on the fixth he got a httle quiet fleep without any opiate: on the ninth the mortified parts feemed inchned to fuppurate, and the gleet was fmall, in compa- rifon of what it had been; on the twelfth there was an appearance of tolerable good matter from the edges; on the fifteenth a laudable fuppuration was eftablifhed, and the mortified parts were every where loofe and falling off. Inftead of a fmall quantity of high-coloured urine, he now made what was nearly equal to his drink, and that very well- conditioned J and the watery extravafation in his legs and thighs was confiderably dimi- nifhcd. He now began to naufeate the bark,' in the form in which he had hitherto taken it; it was therefore changed for another, which he took at larger intervals; and, to afiifi: his uri- nary2l8 A TREATISE nary dlfcbarge, his apothecary gave him a» infufion of the cineres geiiiftse and horfe- radifh, which anfwered the purpofe very well. The whole fcrotum and dartos caft off in a large flough, and left the tunica vaginalis of both tefticles as bare and clean as if they had been diffeaed : thefe were foon covered by an incarnation, which fupplied the place of the; fcrotum tolerably well; and by perfifting in the life of the fame remedies for a few weeks longer, .he was reftored to perfeiSl 1iea;lth. fC A S E VI, A MAN, not exceeding forty, who had drank freely of fpirituous liquors, was thereby brouglit into the fame circumflances as the patient in the preceding cafe; that is, -his countenance was yellow and bloated; his legs, thighs, fcrotum and penis, loaded with a wa- tery tumor ; he had little or no appetit-e; and made a very fmall quantity of high-coloured urine. Internal remedies having been ineffeaually tried for fome time, he was advifed to have an incifion made on each fide of the fcrotum; by meansON THE HYDROCELE, &C. Sip means of which, all the fwelling, both of it find of the penis^ was immediately removed, and the patient much pleafed. On- the fourth day from the operation all difcharge of ferum ceafed, and the wounded part fwelled, inflamed, and becdme very pain*, ful. Fomentation, cataplafm, and proper di^ geftive dreffings were ufed, but without any relief from the pain, or any beneficial alter- ation in the appearance of the fores. On the fixth day from that of the incifion, I was de- lired to meet the gentleman that had the care of him. I found that the hard inflammatory fwelling, which a day or two before had oc- cupied the whole fcrotum, was now gone off, and that it was become flabby and livid, efpe- cially about the incilions. I propofed taking the cortex, but it was not complied with; nor do I know what the me- dicines were which he did take, neither my- self nor his attendant furgeon being confulted pn that head. Vslarm fpirituous fomentations, with proper poultice and dreffings were conti- n*ued, but to no purpofe. I faw the patient each mbrriing, for four days ; during which, he got little or no reft, and complained of great pain and burning heat within his belly: the watery'^2Q A TREATISE watery extravafation in his thighs and legs increafed daily; the whole fcrotum and Ikin of the penis became black, and mortified, as did alfo the part of the pubes ; and on the ele- Tenth day from that on which the incilion was •rnade, he died, CASE vir, A MAN, about forty-five years old, byname Corby, who was a patient in St. Bartholo^ mew's hofpital on another account, fhewe4 me a fwelling on the left fide of his fcrotum* It was large, full, tight, and had all the fympr toms and appearances of an hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis, viz. the fluctuation of the fluid, the freedom of the upper part of the procefs, and the concealment of the tefticlQ. 1 thought myfelf fo clear in the true nature of the difeafe, ^that, without any fcruple,-! pierced it with a fmall trochar in the lower and anterior part, and thereby let out about two ounces of limpid water; but could by no means draw off any more, though I preffed a probe up through the cannula, and ufed every other means proper to obtain it. I withdrewON THE HYDROCElLE, &C. 22 f 1 withdrew the cannula, and examined the fweUino; ag-ain: which was but Uttle dimi- niflied by what had been done: but though it was not much decrealed in fize, it was confi* derably altered in appearance. I could no^w very plainly dillinguilh the tefticle, and was convinced, that the whole difeafe was confined to the cells of the dartos. In fliort, it v/as (what I had never feen before) an anafarca of that membrane, on one fide only; having a certain quantity of the water in one cyft or bag, and the reft difFufed through the cells ia the ufual manner: the latter made all the tumefa£bion, whicl/remained after tapping.; and the former had concealed the tefticle. JBeing now truly fatisfied of the nature of the cafe, I made an incifion, about an inch, long, through the fcrotum into the loaded dartos; intending thereby to drain off the water, and, by procuring a fuppuration, to cure the difeafe. Into the incifion I put a little dry lint, and tied the fcrotum up in a bag-trufs. To my great aftonifhment, the next day my drefler told me, that Gorby's fcrotum was fwelled to a great fize, and that the incifion was already livid. I went to the hofpital, and foundi2i A TREATISE -found it To: I ordered the part to be fomented^ and wrapped up in a warm poultice; ind that the man fhould take the cortex freely, till the phylician (hould fee him* In three days time, the whole fcrotum, aiid ikin of the penis was completely mortified; ^and a confiderable part of the pubes altered and veiicated: his pUlfe was quick and fmall; he complained of a burning heat in his belly^ and bladder; his thirft was intenfe; and his extremities cold* For feveral days I was convinced, that each would be his laft t his fomentation, cataplafm^ and dreffingSj were continued; the dodor or- dered him a dram of the bark, as often as his flomach would bear or keep it, iii a julep j well impregnated with volatile fait; and the poor man earneftly begged to be allowed a pint of porter a day; which he had. Atlaft^ in Jlbout; three weeks time^ the whole fcrotum^ the in- teguments of the penis j and fome part of th^ pubes caft off, leaving the corpora cavernofa, and the tunica vaginalis, as clean as if they ■had been diffeaed. The man got welL More of the fame kind of cafes might be: produced, in which the trouble and hazard Attending large incifions of the fcrotum, in dropfiealON THE HYDROCELE, &CC. 22^ dropfical cafes,have been great; but the fimi- larity of them renders it unnecelTarj. I Ihall therefore only add, that from the fimple piindure I havefeldom met v^^ith either; and that I have as feldom known them fail to anfwer the purpofe for which they were in- tended, viz. a temporary difcharge of ferum from the cellular membrane. SECT. V. If we confider the preceding complaint as merely fymptomatic, and do not rank it among the different kinds of hydrocele, there will then remain only three, viz. 1. That which confifts of a colle<5lion of water in the cells of the tunica communis, or cellular membrane, iuveloping and conneding the fpermatic velTels. 2. That which is formed by the extravaf- ation of a fluid, in the iame coat as the for- mer, but which, inftead of being diffufed through the general cellular ftruaure of it, is ^ confined to one cavity or cyfi:, in which all the water conftituting this fpecies of difeafe IS contained; th'e refl of the membrane being in its natural fiate. 3. That2i^4 A tREA'i'ISfi 3. That which is produced by the acGumtl-* latioii of a quantity of water, in the cavity of the tunica vag-inaHs' teftis. Thefe three are diftind, local, and truly within the province of furgery. They may accidentally be combined or connected with other diforders, but not neceffarily; and are frequently found in. jperfons whofe genefal habit is good, and who are perfectly free from all other complaints. THE HYDROCELE, OF THE CELLS OF TH^ TUNICA COMMUNIS. In the anatomical account of the parts, which malce the feats of the different kinds of hydrocele, it has been obferved, that th6 ipermatic veflels, from their origin quite down to the infertion into the tefticle, are in- inveloped in, and connected together by, a membrane, called formerly tunica vaginalis vaforum fpermaticorum, but now (more pro- perly) tunica communis. That this mem- brane fo enveloping the fpermatic veflels has no one particular cavity, (as its old name would feem to imply ;) but is merely cellular, as either the inflation of air, or the extra- 7 * vafatioi\ON thje; hydrocelej &;c. 225 VaJfatloh of a fluid, will always prove. That while it is within the cavity of the belly, its ■cells are lax and large; ,and when it has paffed •out from thence, and has formed a part of the Ipermatic procefs, by enveloping its veflels, its cells are father fmaller, and the membrane •compoling them firmer. That it is included within that thin expanfion of mufcular fibres, called the cremafler. And that a great num- ber of lymphatics, paffing from the tefticle to the receptaculum chyli, are alwa.ys to be found in it'. An attentive confi^eration of the'fe circum- ftances in the flrufttire of this part will fhew ■us, why either obfl:ru(ftion or breach in the lymphatic veffels, confiderable prelTure by means of difeafed indurations within the ab- domen, or a morbid flate of the parts which jfhould receive the lymph from the vefTels of the fpermatic chord, may induce the dlfeafe in queflion ; and alfo, when it is produced, that its appearance, and the nature of the extra- vafation, muft make the term cellular a very proper one, as expreffive of its true ftate*. When * " J'al Touvent v& des tumeurs aqueufes, grofles comme des grains de raifm, placees d'efpace en efpace le long du Vol. II. '« cordon225 ^TREATISE When the difeafe is fimple, it is perfectly local; that is, it is confined entirely to the membrane forming the tunica communis; • and does not at all affeft,. either the dartos, the tunioi vaginalis teftis, or any other part. It is a complaint which does> not give a great d^eal of trouble, unlefs it arrives toa confider- able fize;, and, being by no means fo frequentf as either of the other two kinds of hydrocele, it is in general but little known or attended tov With fome, it paffes Fot a varix of the fpermatie chord; with others, for the defcent of a portion of omentum, which having con- traaed an adhefion cannot be returned. Thus- its true nature not being in general rightly underflood, and it giving but little trouble or mneafmefs while it is within moderate bounds, and neither hindering any neceffary aftioh or faculty, they who have it are moft frequently advifed to be contented with a fufpenfory cordon fpermatique, accompagner ttpe-veritable hydrocele <• placee fur le corps du tefticle.'; Le Dran. , ^ ..^ , The firft part of this paragraph is a iuft and true defcnption ©f the hydrocele of the cells of the tunica communis, when not ^nuch dillended: but if by " une veritable hydrocele," Mr. Le Dran means that of the tunica vaginalis, his defcription of it, as- «' une tumeur aqueufe, placee fur le corps du tefticule," is very inexpreflive, inadequate, and likeiy to con^y an erroneous ''^^^■^ "bandage^ON THE HYDROCELE, SzC. 2.1*^ Widage, and find very little inconvenience from it. Sometimes it arifes to fo large a fize, and gets into fuch a ftate, as to become an object X)f furgerj, and to require our very ferious attention. In general, while it is of moderate fize, the ilate of it is as follows. The fcrotal bas is free from all appearance of difeafe; except that when the Ikin is not corrugated, it feems rather fuller, and hangs rather lower on that fide than on the other, and if fufpended lightly on the palm of the hand, feels heavier: the tefticle, with its epididymis, is to be felt per- fedly difiiind below this fulnefs, neither en- larged, nor in any manner altered from its natural ftate: the fpermatic procefs is confi- derably larger than it ought to be, and feels like a varix, or like an omental hernia, accord- ing to the different fize of the tumor : it has a pyramidal kind of form, broader at the bot- .tom than at the top: by gentle and continued preffure it feems gradually to recede or go up, but drops down again immediately upon re- moving the prefiTure; and that as freely in a Xupine as in an ered pofiure: it is attended With a very fmall degree of pain or uneafi- nefs;228 A Treatise ture nefs; which iineafmefs is not felt in the fcfO- turn, where the tumefadion is, but in the loins. If the extravafation be confined to what is called the fpcrmatic procefs, the opening in the tendon of the abdominal mufcle is not at all dilated, arid the procefs pafling through it may be very diftinaiy felt; but if the cellular membrane which inverts the fpermatic veflels withiii the abdomen be affeded, the tendinous aperture is enlarged; and the increafed fizp of the diftended membrane paffing through it, produces to the touch, a fenfation, not very unlike that of an omental rupture. While it rs fmali it is hardly an objea of largery; the pain or inconvenience which it produces being fo little, that few people would chtrfe to- fubmit to an operation to get rid of it; and it is very ieldom radically curable without one: but when'it'is large, or affeds the membrane within the-cayity, as well as without, it becomes an apparent defprmity, is very inconvenient both from its fize and weight, and the only method of cure whiqh it admits is f^ir from being void of hazard; as muft appear to every one who will confider, or who is at all acquainted either with the na-ON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 229 ture of lymphatic extravafation or abforption, or with the frequent confeqnences of wounds iaflidted on parts merely membranous. CASE VIII. A MAN about fifty-five defired me to look at a rupture, under which he faid he had la- boured for feveral years. For the greateft part of that time he had worn a fteel ftrufs, which had given him little or no uneafinefs, but had never kept his rupture up. During all this tiine he never had any fymptoms of obftruftion in the inteftinal canal; nor had the tilmor ever increafed in fize, or altered its appearance, until within the laft three or four months, when he had been perfuaded to change his trufs for a bandage without iron, and to make nfe of an external application, which was faid to be infaUible. What the application was I know not; but its efFedl was an excoriation of the 2;roin and parts about: the bandage was made of dimity, had a large hard bolfter, with three or four buckles, and was buckled on very tight. He faid, that the pain it had caufed had been great; but that he had cheerfully fub- Q ^ mittcd230 A TREATISE ture mitted to it, having been affured that thq me- dicines, affifted by the prefllire, would foon fhrink up a piece of caul which was in the fcrotum, and thereby free him from all poffi- bility of a return of his difeafe; and that, after that was done, he might leave off all kind of bandage, and do as he pleafed. He had now made the experiment, till the pain was fo great, and the parts fo fwelled, that he could endure it no longer. The fcro- tum was much inflamed, and fv^^elled; the groin excoriated; the tefticle enlarged, but not hard; the fpermatic procefs quite up t(^ the .belly, full, tight, and fo exquifitely pain- ful, that he could not bear the moft gentle handlino-; he had no obftruaion on his going to ftool; nor any fymptom of the confine- ment of any part of the inteftinal canal. The principal information which I could get was from his own account; for he could not bear " the flighteft touch. From this it appeared to me, that whatever might be the true ftate of the cafe, it vi^as very clear, that the firft thing to be done was to obtain eafe. I there- fore''put him to bed, bled him freely, ordered him to have a glyfler thrown up immediately, and to take two fpoonfuls of a purging mix-ON" THE HYDROCELE, Scc. 231 tnre every two or three hours, until he fliould have a free difcharge per aiium ; and then to take a grain of extrad- thebaic. I wrapped up the Icrotum, and covered the groin and pubes with a warm foft poultice, and put on a bag trufs. He paffed the day in a very uneafy rx^ftlefs ■ftate; and in the evening, finding his pulfe not at all lower, nor his pain lefs, (his purg- ing mixture having done its duty) I took away fourteen ounces more of blood, and or- dered his opiate to be taken again, and re- peated at the diftance of every fix hours. Forty-eight hours pafled over, during which time he took feven grains of opium, before he could get fleep or eafe; and when he obtained the former, it did not laft more than three or four hours, (an effed I have feveral times feen, in the exhibition of large and frequently- repeated dofes of opium, given either to ap- peafe pain, or to quiet a phrenzy.) When he awoke, he was eafier, and feemed to be much refrefhed; his pulfe was fofter, his perfpiration free, and the parts lefs in- flamed, and lefs painful; his poultice was renewed, after fomentation; and he was di- rected to take a draught of the common emul- 0^4 fionA TREATISE fion every fix hours, with fome manna and nitre in it; by which means he had, in the courfe of the next day, two plentiful dif- chai-ges by flool. By thefe means, within the (pace of fix or feven days, all his inflammatory fymptoms were removed; and the parts reduced to nearly the fame ftate in which they were ,when he put on, his dimity banda,ge : that is, the tefticle was of its natual fize, but the fper- matic procefs large and full, though foft, and indolent, and feeling very like to a fmall omental rupture. For greater certainty, I kept him in bed a day or two more; and confined him to the. fame low regimen, with an. open body. The fpermatic procefs continued in the fame ftate. I attempted to reduce the appa- rent rupture, but without fuccefs; though there was no reafon to think that there was the leaft ftri6lure made on it by the tendon of the abdominal mufcle. I could indeed make a fniall part of it recede^ but even that di4 not pafs the opening at all like a piece of omentum; it did not give any of that fenfa- tion to my fingers, nor produce that kind of noife, wliich the return of a rupture into the abdomen,ON-THE HYDROCELE, &C. 233 abdomen generally does; and the moment I removed my fingers, it fell down again, al- though the patient was in a fupine pofture. In Ihort, I made attempts for redu£lion fo long, and fo often, that I was perfedly fatif- fied that the prolapfed part was not reducible, (at leafi: by me.) It now gave him no pain, nor uneafinefs of any kind; but he had fuffered fo much from the preffure of his bandage, and was fo fatif- fied (from the fuccefslefs attempts which I had made) ^ that his rupture was not capable of being reduced, that he contented himfelf with a common fufpenfory bag, and found not the leaft alteration in it, for the fpace of three years. At the end of this time he was at- tacked^ with a peripneumony, and died. I obtained leave to examine his body, and found, that what I had taken for a portion of omentum was a colle6lion of water in the cells of the tunica communis of the fpermatic veflels, on the outfide of the cavity of the ab- domen ; that nothing elfe had palTed through the tendon of the oblique mufcle; and that the tefticle, and tunica vaginahs, were per- fcftly unaffe£led. Notwithftanding the account which this patient£34 ^ TREATISE patient had given of himfelf, and of his having frequently reduced his rupture, I am fatisfied that he never had one; and that his difeafc had, from the firft, been vi^hat it at laft ap- peared to be. There was no fign of a her^ nial fac; and though the return of fuch fac back again into the belly, after it has been in the groin or fcrotum, is a thing much talked <of by late writers, I do not believe that it ever happened. This fteel trufs did not prefs hard enough to produce any mifchief, and was thought not to have kept his rupture up ; and the fymp- toms, under which \ found him labouring, were occafioned merely by the dimity ban- dage, fubftituted in the place of his trufs; which having large hard bolfters, and being buckled on very tight, preffed violently on the fpermatic veflels and loaded membrane. CASE IX. A HEALTHY middle-aged man apphed to me one day, while I was dreffing the hofpi- tal, ar^d fhewed me a confiderable fwelhng hi his' fcrotum. I examined it, and told him I believed it to confift of water. He replied.ON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 235 he knew it; for that Mr. Baker, then one of the furgeons of the Weftminfter infirmary^ had a few days before drawn fome from it by punfture with a lancet. Upon hearing this, I examined it again, imagining that I might poffibly find it to be blood : (a circumftance which now and then happens, after tapping a common hydrocele:) but ftill it appeared to me to have all the marks of a tumor from water, and to be principally in the fpermatic chord. The dartos was indeed a little thick- ened by the infinuation of a fmall quantity of a fluid into fome of its cells, but the tefticle was rtiuch too plainly diftinguifhable, for the cafe to be taken for a hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis; nor was the upper part of the pro- cefs in that free ftate in which it is moil fre- quently found, in that difeafe. I took him into the hofpital, and ordered him to keep his bed, till I faw him the next day; at which time I pafled a fmall trochar into the anterior part of the tumor a httle higher than ufual. At firft a limpid ferum flowed freely ; but that foon flopped, and I was neceffitated to pafs a probe frequently up the cannula, to get aWay the remainder; neither could I, eithei^ by that means, or by preffure, reduce the fcrotum to a proper2.^6 A TREATISE a proper fize, or remove the faliiefs of the procefs above. I ordered the- part to be fo- mented night and morning, and the whole fcrotum and groin to be covered with a foft poultice; and that the man (hoiild take a fo- lution of manna and Glauber's fait the next morning. The applications were continued, and the purge repeated every fecond or third day, for a fortnight; at the end of which time, the fwelling was as larg^ as when I firfl: faw it. During this interval of time, I frequently examined the . parts j and always found the tellicle much more free, and independent, than 1 had ever felt it in a hydrocele of the tunica vaginahs. It appeared to me, from the kind of fluid which had already been twice let out, and from the prefent appear- ance of the part, that no cure would be ob- tained without laying the whole open ; but as I was by no means certain, what was the precife nature of the difeafe, or in what ftate the parts might be found, I informed the man that it might pofiibly become neceffary to re- move that tefticle. . To this he confented; and I made an inclfion, through the Ikin, from the groin down as low as the tefticle; intending.ON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 237 intending, if I had found the procefs difeafed, to have caftrated. The incifion was followed by a large dif- chars:e of water, not only from the lower part, where there feemed to have been a con- fiderable colledlion in one cavity, but from the fiirface of the whole cellular membrane en- clofing the fpermatic veffels. Finding this membrane no other way difeafed than by the watery diftention of its cells, I went no far- ther with my operation, but filled the incifion lightly with foft lint. For three or four days the difcharge of ferum was large; but that ceafing, a plentiful fuppuration fucceeded; which was followed by a perfe6t fubfidence of the whole tumor; and in due time the wound healed, and the man obtained a cure. C A S E X. A GENTLEMAN about thirty-five ycars of age, came out of the North, to London, for the afiifi:ance of Mr. William Sharpe, in the qafe of a large tumor of the fcrotum; which, he faid, had been coming five or fix years. The account v/hich he gave of it was, that • at firft it was fmall, eafily (as he thought) putI ^38; A TI^EATlSfi put Up, but came down again immediately $ which he attributed to his not havine been o accommodated with a proper bandage; that at the end of about nine months, or rathef more, he found that he could not reduce- i.t at all, whatever pains he took, or whatever poflure he put himfelf into; and that from this time, its increafe had been daily more apparent. The cafe was fingular; and Mr* Sharpe defired me to fee it with him. The fcrotum wa,s of a moft prodigious £ze; it hung more than half way down to the patient's knee; it was very ill fupported, by an aukward bag of his own making; and, ' toward the lower part, was much ulcerated, by neglected excoriations. Different parts of the tumor felt very differently; in fome places, it was hard; in fome, foft; and in others, a thin fluid was palpably difcoverable* The fpermatic procefs was large and full, quite up to the groin; the aperture in the abdominal mufcle was confiderably dilated by it; and when the patient coughed, the whole tumor was manifeftly diftended : his flools were regular, his appetite good, his uriiie proper in quality, but very deficient in quan- tity ; his fole complaints were, a pain in his backON THE HYDROCELE, S:C, 2j^^ back (proceeding as we fuppofc from the weight of the icrotum,) and a languor and difpiritednefs, which he had not been accuf- tomed to, and could not account for. The feel of fome part of the tumor was like that of an inteftinal hernia, in which there is no ftri^lurc, and the gut does its of- fice in fcroto; but other parts of it were fo unlike to this, and the upper part of it toward the groin was fo large, and fo hard, that we remained in great doubt concerning the true nature of the contents. When we had fufficiently examined the tumor in an ei-e6t poflure, we piit the patient into a fiipine one,, which produced a Gonfider- abie alteration in the appearances; the tumor became manifeftly lefsy and fofter ; and feem- ed, by retiring, to occafion a large fwelllng on that hde of the belly, juft above the os ilion, tendins; backward toward the recrion of the kidney. Upon continued prefllire, the con- tents of the fcrotum feemed to recede ftill more; and ftil! as thev receded, the fwellins: on the fide of the belly increafed. When we had got up to a certain point, we could get up no more; but during our endeavours to return as much as we could, we clearly difco-' verei34^ A TREATISE vered, that the tumor in thefcrotutn, aiidtha^ within the belly, were produced 'by the fame body; that there was a palpable and free fluc- tuation, from the one to the other; and that the harder parts were mere indurations, and thickenings of the integuments and common membrane. The burden was fo great, that the patient was defirous of being eafed, at any rate. We communicated to him our opinions, our fuf- picions, fears, and uncertainty; and told him what hazard might poffibly be incurred, by ading according to the former, if we fhould be miftaken; but he being determined to en- deavour to obtain rehef, at all events, and we being prepared, as well as we could, for what- ever might happen, made a fmall incifion into the lower, and anterior part of the tumid fcrotum. As foon as we had divided the Ikin, a quan- tity of clear dimpid water burfl forth, of which we caught above a quart; and then the open- ing was flopped, by fomething which thruft itfelf out, and looked like a piece of cellular membrane loaded with wat^r. We cut a part of it off, and gently pufhed back the reft with a probe; while by moderate and continued preflurc.ON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 241 preflurCj we drained off eleven Winchefler pints of water. , When we could get no more away, we would have enlarged the opening; but our patient found himfelf fo lightened, and fo eafy, that he would not permit it. The fcrotum, it is true, was Gonfiderably leflened ; but in no proportion to the quantity of water which had been drawn off: the whole fpermatic procefs, from the tefticle quite up to the belly, was ftill large and full; and the abdominal opening ftill dilated by a large body paffing through it; but, as the fwelling in the belly could not now be felt in any pofturej and as the fcrotum was reduced to fuch a fize as to be eafily fupportable by a bag trufs, he determined to wait the effed of what had already been done. In little more than a month we faw him ag-ain. The tumor O in the fide of the belly was as apparent, the fluduation as palpable, and the burden as great' as when we firft faw him. His health was flill good in general; but his face ap- peared to me to be more pale and wan, and he complained ftill more of thirft and languor. As we were now fure of the nature of the contents, we divided the whole fcrotum from Vol. II. R the242 A TREATISE the bottom upward. The lower part was formed into a cyft, or bag, made by the pref- fure of the water, which wa& difcharged upon the firft introdu6tion of the knife; but all the reft of the tumor was formed by the diffufioa of ferum through all the ftrudure of the tu- nica communis, the cells of which were all much enlarged with it, quite up to the groin; the tefticle being very diftind, and free from difeafe. The ferum oozed freely from all parts of this membrane by gentle preffure; and as it feemed to fubfide confiderably there- by, we meddled no farther, but contented ourfelves with filling the incifion Hghtly with dry lint, and fufpending the fcrotum in a bag trufs. During the firft two or three days, the dif- charge of water was conftant and plentiful; and the fore was (as might be expeded) crude and undigefted; but without any of that in- flammatory hardnefs and fwelling, which wounds, made in fuch parts, in healthy fan- guine people, generally have; on the con- trary, the lips were flaccid, and foft: it is true, he was perfedtly free from fever or pain, and, except the circumftances juft mentioned of thirft and languor, he had no apparent dif- order;ON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 243 ©rder; but tjbiey were great and troublefome. The difcharge of water continued large, and his wound neither digefted nor inEamed ; nor did it wear any the leaft appearance of gan- grene, or mortification: his languor and anxi- ety increafed daily; and on the fourteenth day from that of the operation, he died ; the fore flill wearing the fame face. Upon opening his body, we found all the cellular membrane which invefted the fper-' matic veflels within the abdomen loaded with water, and diftended in a very irregular man- ner, from the origin of the faid veffels quite down to the opening of the oblique mufcle ; . at this place it was contraifted into a round, or rather a flattifh body, of lefs fize, but ftill fo large, as to dilate the opening in the tendon confiderably. Below this it was again ex- panded and diftended with water, through all its cells; but the tefticle, and its tunica vagi- nalis, were in a found ftate, and perfectly un- affeded by the difeafe. Was it the large difcharge of ferum, or the free divifion of membranous parts which oc- cafioned this gentleman's death ? For my own .part, I am inclined to attribute it to the for- mer; for though an incifion, made in parts of R 2 , fuch244 A TREATISE fuch ftrudiire, and fo difeafed, does fomc- times prove fatal, yet the parts themfelves in fuch cafe generally fliew, by a gangrenous or mortified appearance, what fhare fuch oper- ation has in the patient's deftrudlion. In this cafe, there was indeed no digeftion, nor any of that inflammation, which always precedes fuppuration; nor, on the other hand, was there any appearance like gan- grene or fphacelus ; but his manner of dying w.as very much like that of thofe who are de- ftroyed by large hciemorrhages. SECT VI.' rtiE ENCYSTED HYDROCELE OF THE TUNICA COMMUNIS. This fpecies of Hydrocele has its feat in the fame part as the preceding, viz. the tunica communis, or cellular membrane, which m- vefts the fpermatic veffels; with this differ- ence, that, in the former, the water is dif- fufed in general through all the cells of the membrane; whereas in this it is contained in oneON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 245 one cavity only. If any of the three kinds of hydrocele deferves the name of encyfted, it is this. The water which conftitutes it being all contained in a bag, formed in the fame maimer as all the coats of all encyfted tumors are, viz. by mere preflure,- and condenfation of the common membrane. It is a complaint by no means infrequent, efpecially in children. It was very well known to many of the ancients, and has been very accurately defcribed by fome of them^; but later " By Albucafis, by Celfus, Paulus ^gineta, and others. The laft has particularly dlftinguifhed this kind of hydrocele, from that of the tunica vaginalis, by a very juft defcription of both': " Si humor in membrana fupernata coierit, tumor alterius tefti- " culi imaginem exhibet. Quibus in Erythroide tunica humor comprehenfus eft tumor rotundus paululum, & ovi modo lon- /* giufculus: his tefticulus in confpeftum non venit, ut qui vm- diquaque lit implicitus." The former of thefe defcriptions our countryman Peter . Lowe, has moft probably copied, when he fays, " It is fome- V* . inclofed in a membrane, and appeareth like a third tef- " ticle." Heifter fpeaks of this fpecies of hydrocele as very rare, only quotes the authority of others to prove its exiftence, and feems in fome meafure to confound it with a colledlion of fluid in a con- genial hernial fac. Page 842, he fays, " Quandoque tamen etiam, ut nonnulll ." autores referunt, in peritonei procelTu, fupra tefticulum,liquor " prjeter naturam colligitur: imo etiam in produiaioneperitonjei, R 3 * " abA TREATISE 246 later writers have often miftaken it for, and reprefented it as, a fpecies of wind-rupture, 01^ pneumatocele; a difeafe exifting in their imaginations only. It moft frequently pof- fefles the middle part of the ^rocefs, between the tefticle and groin, and is generally of an oblong figure; whence it has by fome people been compared to an egg, by others to a fifh's bladder. Whether it be large or fmall, it is generally pfetty tenfe, and confequently the fludtiation of the water within it, nofe always irhmediately or eafily perceptible; for which reafon it has been fuppofed to contain air Only. It gives no pain, nor (unlefs it be very large indeed) does it hinder any neceflary ' iliteftinorum hernia orta, copiofum liquorem in cadavere, ieftione aliquando deprehendi." And in a note on this paffage •fi'e adds, " Wiedemannus, nec noh Boerhavius, jtemque Garen- " geotiis & Dranius memorant iftiufmodi hydroceles cafus- quah- doque bbfervari; ubi digito contingi tefticulus queat; atque *' tunc fupra tefticulum in peritonei procelTu tumorem & hu- morem confiftere. In enterocele autem contrariuin quandoqiie " ufu venire, propterea quod inteftina interdum,ut fupra monui, ^ " ufque in tunicam vaginalem, per feptum illud naturale, quod tefticulum a parte fuperiori: proceffus peritonei diftinguit pe- •** netravferiint.'' " Sed rari admodum fint necefle eft, ad quos modalaudati " autbres provocant cafus. Ego fane quanquam plurimos homi- h^s enterocele, non minus quam hydrocele labdrantes fanave- '** rim, nunquam tamen adhuc ita rein invenij" &c. * adlion.ON THE HYDROCELE, &C, 247 aaion^ It is perfeaiy circumfcribed; and has no communication, either with the cavity of the belly above, or that of the vaginal coat of the tefticle below it. The teftis and its epididymis, are perfedly and diftindly to be felt below the tumor, and are abfolutely inde- pendent of it. The upper part of the fper- matic procefs in the groin is moft frequently very diftinguifhable. The fwelling does, not retain the impreffion of the fingers; and when: lightly ftruck upon, founds as if it contained wind only. It undergoes no alteration frorri change of the patient's pofture; nor is affe£led by his coughing, fneezing, &c. and has-no efFed on the difcharge per anum. *; Thefe marks (while the difeafe is fimple and uncombined with any other) are fufficient to diftinguifh it by, from all others which may affed the fame part; but it fometimes hap- pens, that the prefent complaint is found con- neded either with a true hernia, or with a hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis; by which the cafe is rendered complex, and lefs eafy to be underftood. In this, as in every other cafe where, from a complication of fymptoms and appearances, a combination of difeafes may be fufpeded, R 4 iJiere-4^ A TREATISE there is but one method of inveftitrating the truth; which isj to confider carefully what diforders the part aggrieved is naturally liable to; what the diftind fymptoms and appear- a,nces of each of thofe are; and what are the efFefts of the prefent complaint. The two difeafes with which this kind of hydrocele is mofl: likely to be combined are, as I faid her fore, an hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis teftis, and'a.true hernia; the parts within the groin, the fpermatic procefs, an4 the fcrotum being the feat of all three. One mark, or chara^leriftic of an hydrocele of the tunica vaginahs teftis is, that it poffeffes and diftends the inferior part of the fcrotum; and that the tefticle being nearly, (though not abfolutely) furrounded by the water, it very feldom happens, that the former can be clearly and plainly diftinguifhed by the fingers of au ex'aminer; whereas in the encyfted coUedlion, in the membranes of the chord, the tumor is always above the. tefticle, which.as,'obvious and plain to be felt below it. Another circumftance worth, attending to isj .that .although the fluid in a hydrocele of the vaginal coat does fo nearly furround. the tjeflis a? to render it often not very eafy to be ; ^ diftinguifhed,ON THE HYDROCELE, &c. 249 diftlngiiifhed, yet the different parts of the tumor have always a very different feel: for inflance, in all thofe points where the vaginal tunic is loofe, and unconneded with the tu.- nica albuginea, the tumor is foft and compref- fible, and gives a clear idea of the contained fluid; but when thefe two coats are continu- ous, or make one and the fame membrane, and have no cavity between them (which is the cafe on the middle and pofterior part) there will always be found a hardnisfs and firmnefs, very unlike to what is to be found in all thofe places, where the diftance^ be- tween the two tunics leaves room for the col- ledlion of a fluid: now the hydrocele of the chord being formed in the mere cellular niem- brane of it, is the fame to the toych in 4II the parts of the tumor, and feels like a diflended bladder through every point of it. The free ftate of the upper part of the fpermatic procefs, while the tumor is forming below ; the gradual accumulation of the fluid, and confequently the gradual growth of the " Tunica Erythroidcs nature nervofas, in gibba quidem 'f Sc anteriore e tefticulo libera eft, in concava & pofteriqri ipfi adherefcit ex peritonaso originem trahens." Paulus iEgineta. fwelling;35^ A TREATISE fwelling; the indolent and unaltering ftate of it: its being incapable of redudion, or return, into the belly from the firft; its being always "unafFedled by the patient's coughing, or fneez- ing; and the uninterrupted freedom of the faecal difcharge per anum, will always diftin- guifh it from an inteftinal hernia; and he who miftakes it for an omental one, muft be very ignorant; or very heedlefs. Now, although there may not always be fuch external marks as may, to the eye, ex- plain the combination of thefe difeafes with each other; yet the particular feat and fyiiip- rdm of each being known, and the fenfation^ which they produce to the fingers of an intel- ligent examiner being well underftood, when fuch mixed charadleriftics are found in the fame fubjed, we may reafonably conclude the cafe to be complex, and ad accordingly. I have indeed feen an encyfted hydrocele, fitdated fo high toward the groin, as to render the perception of the fpermatic veffels very obfcufe, or even imprafticable; but then, the jflate and appearance of the tefticle, and the abfence of every fymptom proceeding from confinement of the inteftinal canal, were fuffi- cient/ ON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 2jr cient marks of the true liature of the com- plaint. Infants are much more fubje£l to this dif- eafe than adults; though it often affeds the latter. In young children, it frequently diffipates in a Ihort time, efpecially if affifted by warni fomentation, and an open belly. If it does not difperfe, that is, if it be not abforbed, the point of a lancet will give dif- charge to the water; and^ in young children, will moft frequently produce a cure: but in adults, the cyft formed by the preffure of the fluid does fometimes become fo thick, as to require diviiion through its whole length ; which operation rriay in genetal be performed with great eafe, and perfedl fafety: I fay in general, becaiife it - is moft frequently ib ; though I have feen eveh this, flight as it may ■feem, prove trbublefome, hazardousj and fatal. Of fuch confequence are wounds iii membranous parts in fome particular habifsv' 3d d A S E XL A LAD about fixteen years old was'tikeh into St. BartholDmew*s hofpital, with a cdrti- plaintA TREATISE plaint which he had been told was a rup- ture. The tumor was large, of an oblong figure, began juft below the exit of the fpermatic veffels from the belly, and extended to the bottom of the fcrotum; but in the middle of it was a depr-eflion, or ftridure, which feemed to divide it nearly into two equal parts. The Tipper part was fo high, that I could not feel the fpermatic procefs at all fatisfa6lorily; aiid although there was palpably a fluid in the whole of the fwelling, yet the upper and lower parts of it did not feeria to communi- cate with each other; at leaft the fludluation ■through them was not difceruible. A§. hehad never had any fymptom of a triie hernia, and as the account, he gave.of.the..gradual form- ation of the tumor Joiried to' the:fluctuation, ScCi convinced me that it was principally if not totally water, I pierced' the lower part care- fully, and drew off nearly ha;lf ,a pint of yel- lowifh ferum; by which means t^he fcrotum became immediately empty and rugous, and the tefticle clearly diflinguifhable; but the upper part of the fwelling remained as large and as tenfe as before, nor .(pould I by any inpans obtain a drop of fluid i:por,ejfrom below. ^ '"'"^TheON THE HYDROCELE, SlC. 253 The next day I ordered him a brilk purge, which operated well; and two or three days after, being fatisfied that the inteftinal canal could have no fliare in the complaint, I thruft a lancet into the anterior part of the i^pper tumor; by which means a quantity of limpid ferum was difcharged, and the whole fwell- ing immediately difappeared, leaving the fper- matic veflels free, and eafily diftinguifhable. In a few days he left the hofpital; and at the end of a year, or a little more, he czme to me again, with the lower part of the fcro- tum full, but without any appearance of the tumor above. In fliort, his former ftate con- fided of a complication of the encyfted hydro- cele of the fpermatic chord with that of the tunica vaginaUs teftis; the former was cured by the firft pundlure, the latter was now as full as ever. Confidering the lad's age and temperament, I advifed him to fubmit to the operation for the radical cure by incilion ; which operation was performed, and he got well in about fe- ven weeks, nor has had any return of either complaint fince. CASE^5'.^ A TREATISE CASE XII. A MAN about thirty-five, who had for fome years been troubled with a hydrocele of the tunica vaginahs, which had often been emp- tied by pun6lure, came to me for advice. The fwelling in the fcrotum, he faid, was now about one third of the fize it ufed to be of, when he bad been accuftomed to have it tapped: it was not t-enfe, was of an irregular figure, and plainly contained a fluid. But it was not on account of this tumor that he ap- plied to me. Within two months paft he had difcovered another fmall fwelling, higher up towards his groin, perfedly diftindt from the lower one : it was about the fize of the largeft Frencji walnut, of an oblong figure, abfolutely in- dolent, very tenfe, and left the fpermatic procefs, at its exit from the abdomen, per- feftly free. From the appearance which thefe tumors made, and from the patient's account, I made no doubt of the nature of the cafe, viz. that the upper one was made by a coUedion of water, in a cyft, formed in the cellular mem- braneON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 25^ 7 had brane which makes the tunica communis of the fpermatic vefl'els; and that the lower one was a true hydrocele, of the tunica vaginalis teftis. Upon this prefumption, I pierced the upper one with a lancet; and let out a fmall wine- glafs full of clear limpid ferum. The tumor immediately fubfided, and left the whole fper- matic procefs free; but the lower fwelling was not at all afFe£led by what had been done above. The pundure was well in a day or two; and the hydrocele of the vaginal coat not being full enough to be at all troublefome, he would not permit me to meddle with that. At the end of about nine months he fent for me; his hydrocele was full and large, but he had not the fmalleft appearance of the tumor in the procefs. The water was let out by pundure, as ufual; as it has been feveral times fince; but he has never fufFered any re- turn of the colledion in the procefs. CASE XIII. A LAD about fourteen years old was brought into St. Bartholomew's hofpital for a rupture; which a furgeon (who had feen him at home)2^6 A TREATISE had told his friends, was not in a fitiiation to admit delay : and it being my week for acci- dents, I was fent for immediately. I found a large tumor, full, and tight, pofleffing the whole fpermatic procefs and fcrotum, from the groin quite down to the tefticle; which was independent of it, and perfe£lly diftin- guifhable. As he lay on his back, it was perfeftly indolent; but in an ere£t pofture, or,in the a£lion of ftooping, he complained of pain: it was not tender to the touch, unlefs prefled hard; and it was nearly of equal fizc from the top to the bottom; it bore fo hard againft the opening in the abdominal mufcle, that I could, by no means, feel the fpermatic procefs : he faid, that it had appeared within a week; and, that he had had no ftool for five days paft. Some of thefe were circumftances of im- portance, and might be occafioned by a ftric- ture on the inteftinal canal: but on the other hand, his pulfe was foft, calm, and quiet, and his Ikin cool: he had neither tight belly, naufea, hiccough, nor vomiting; nor any other fymptom (general or particular) dedu- cible from fuch caufe. From the mere appearance, and feel of the J tumor,ON THE JiVDROCELE, &c. 2^7 tumor, I fhould have fiippofed it to have been caufed by water; but the difficulty of diftin-' guifhing the fpermatic procefs above, the free- dom of the tefticle below, and the want of flools, made me hefitate. But though I was in fome doubt concern- ing the precife nature of the cafe, yet I was very clear^ there was no immediate necefflty for an operation. Therefore having founds that I could not return any part of the con- tents of the tumor into the belly, I took away fixteen ounces of blood from his armj ordered a glyfter to be thrown lip immediately, and two fpoonfuls of a purging mixture to be taken every two hours, until a plentiful dif- charge per anum fhould be procured. He took his mixture only twice, and had fix large flools that afternoon; and when I faw him the next morning, he was perfe^ly well in health, but the tumor exadly the fame. I examined it again, and again, and was flill more pofitive that it contained a fluid; but whether that fluid was in the tu- nica communis, or hi a hernial fac, I could by no means be clear; However, as there was no pofiible method of getting rid of it but by an opening, I determined to make one Vql. II. S with25$ A TREATISE with fucK caution, as to be prepared for what- ever might happen. I made a, fmall incifion into the anterior and lower part: whea I had divided the Ikin and cellular membrane, I found a firm hard membrane, which I took for the fac of an hernia : this I divided with the fame caution, and gave difcharge" to a confiderable quantity of ferum; upon which the whole fwelling immediately fubfided, the fpermatic procefs appeared in a natural ftate, and the opening in the tendon undilated. The incifion was drelTed fuperfictally, and healed in a few days. Within lefs than half a year he- came to me again, with the fweUing as large, and under the fame apparent circumftances, as before. His habit was fo good, and I fo well remem- bered the toughnefs of the cyft, at the firft operation, that I made no fcruple of advifuig him to have it laid open through its whol» length. To this he fubmitted, and obtained a perfect cure. CASE XIV. A MAN about forty, fervant to one of the sovernorsof St. Bartholomew's hofpital, came ^ thitherON THE HYDROCELE, &C* 259 thither for advice concerning a rupture; which, he faid, the furgeons in the country- had often endeavoured to put up, but had never fucceeded. The groin and all the upper part of tho fcrotum was large and full; but the tefticle below very fair, and difl:in£t from the tumor. The account which he gave was, that he firft perceived the beginning of the fwelling, in the evening of a day in which he had ridden a very hard fox chafe, and had been a good deal hurt by a fall over his horfe's head. That at firft it was fmall; and that it had gradually increafed ever finCe. That it had never been up fince it firft appeared. That he conftantly felt a dull kind of uneafinefs in it; and that it was very troublefome to him when on horfeback; which he was frequently obliged to be, as his bulinefs was that of an huntfman. I examined the cafe carefully, and was fatisfied that it was water, and not in the vaginal coat of the tefticle. He had for fome time worn a trufs, which had rendered the part uneafy ; had lived freely with regard to liquor; had a yellownefs in his counte- nance, which had an unhealthy appearance; his legs were rather too full; and he had, for S 2 a littlea69 A TREATISE a little while paft, been under the difcdioti of a phyfician in the country. I did not like his appearance, coniidering him as the fubje£t of an operation, and there- fore advifed him to return into the country, and continue to follow his dodlor's direction. At the diftance of three or four months, he came to the hofpital again. He had now,the appearance of very good health. His coun- tenance was frefh; his appetite keen; his urine in proper quantity; and his legs fine. His tumor was larger ; and he faid it was be- come fo troublefome, that if fomething was not done for it, he mufl quit his fervice and go to the parifh. I could have wifhed, that his former ftate had been different; but having apprized him, how much that added to the hazard of any attempt toward curing him, I made an inci- fion the whole length of the tumor, and gave difcharge to a confiderable quantity of clear water. The cyft was firm and thick, arid formed in the common tela cellulofa of the chord. For three days the wound difcharged a large quantity of ferum, but it neither became tu- mid, nor inflamed; his pulfe became hard, andON THE HYDROCEtE, &c. 261 and frequent; he was thirfty, and refllefs, and had a languor in his countenance, which I did not hke. On the fourth day the dif- charge of water ceafed, but the incilion flill remained cold, lax, and flabby; and was fo far from fhewing any tendency to fuppurate, that, on the contrary, the edges began to be livid. Bark, and cordial medicines, were pre- fcribed by the phyfician; and fomentation, poultice, and animated digeftive dreffings were applied; but to no purpofe. On the fixth day he complained of a burning heat in his back and kidneys, while his extremities were cold and damp; on the feventh he became delirious, and that evening died. All the cellular membrane in the pelvis, and about the loins and kidneys, was excef- fively diftended with air, and in feveral places difcoloured; and in the cavity of the abdo- men was a lar^e quantity of bloody water. SECT.g TREATISE SECT. VII. Hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis TESTIS. The third fpecles of this difeafe, is that which is confined to the vaginal coat, or bag which loofely envelopes^ the tefticle. In the Ihort anatomical account already given of the produdlion, ftrudure, and fituation of this tunic, it has been obferved, that in a natural, healthy ftate, its cavity always contains a fmall quantity of a fine fluid, exhaled from capillary arteries, and conftantly abforbed by veffels appointed for that purpofe. This fluid, in the natural fmall quantity ferves to keep the tunica albuginea moift, and to prevent a cohefion between it and the va- ginalis ; a confequence, which almofl necef- farily follows any fuch difeafed ftate of thefe parts, as prevents the due fecretion of it. On the contrary, if the quantity depofited be too large, or if the regular abforption of it be by any means prevented, it will be gradually ac- cumulated.ON THB HYDROCELE, &c. 263 cumulated, and, by diftending the containing bag, will form the difeafe in queftion. The two preceding fpecies of hydrocele ' have their feat in the tunica communis of the fpermatic veffels; that is, in the cellular membrane which inverts them; one by a ge- neral diffufion of lymph through all its cells ; the other by a colle£lion of it, in one particu- lar cyft or bag: that which makes our pre- fent fubjed has no concern or connexion with that membrane at all, but is abfolutely confined to the tunica vaginalis teftis \ * Fallopius, although, he was unacquainted with the real and true origin and nature of this difeafe, and fuppofed its manner of produdlion to be very unlike what it really is; has yet given a very juft account of the appearance, both of this, and of the former: " Alia vero eft hernia aquofa, in qua aqua diftillat per ** vafa et venas, occulto modo, ac fenfim ad fcrotum. Hsc ' autem eft duplex; alia in qua continetur aqua in membrana " adnata, et in proprio folliculo; alia in qua continetur in *' inguinali tunica qua tejietn 'vejiit. Cognpfcitur aquam efle ^* in tunica adnata, quia feparatur tejlis a parte aquofa manihus\ " praterea, ifta hernia habebit propriam circumfcriptionem, ali- *< quando rotundam, aliquando ovalem. Si autem fit in va- ** ginali, non poffumus amplius arripere & dijii7iguere teflcm ab hernia; quoniam in eodeni loco & aqua, & tcftis fi^nt '* conftittiti." Gab, pAttOFiuJ. S4 It^^4 A TREATISE It is a difeafe from which no time of life is exempt; not only adults are fubjeft to it, but young children are frequently affliaed with it; ^nd infants fometimes born with it. What ;s the immediately producing caufe, I will not take upon me to affirm. Ruyfch is of opi- nion, that it proceeds from a varicofe ftate of the fpermatic veffels. What real foundation there may be for fuch conjeaure, I cannot fay; cerfain it is, that the fpermatic veffels are very frequently found varicofe, in perfons affliaed with this kind of hydrocele; but. whether fuch ftate of thefe parts ought to be regarded as a caufe, or as an efFedl of the dif- eafe, is a matter worth inquiring into. In Morgagni are fbme obfervations on the flate of the parts concerned, particularly the infide of the tunica vaginalis, and outfide of the albuginea; which, if repeated and con- firmed, may poffibly lead us on to farther information. In the mean time, from all the circum- flances attending the complaint, it is pretty clear, that whatever tends to increafe the fe- cretion of the fluid into the facculus, beyond the due and necgflary quantity, or to prevent i|:s being taken up, and carried off, by the properON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 265 proper abforbent veflels, muft contribute to its production; which is fo flow, and gradual, and at the fame time fo void of pain, that the patient feldom attends to it, until it has ar^ rived to fome fize. Not but that it fome- times is produced very fuddenly; and in a very fhort fpace of tirne attains confiderable magnitude. The fize and figure of the tumor are vari- ous in different people, and under different circumftances. In general, at its firfl begin- ing it is rather round 5 but as it increafes, it frequently affumes a pyriform kiivd of figure, with its larger extremity downward: fome- times it is hard, and almofl incompreffible; fo much fo, that, in fome few inftances, it has been miflaken from an induration of the tef^ tide: at other times it is fo foft and lax, that both the tefticle, and the fluid furrounding it, are eafily difcoverable. It is perfe^ly indo- lent in itfelf; though its weight does fome- times produce fome fmall degree of uneafinefs in the back. The great charaaeriflic (as it is . called) of this difeafe, and on which almofl all writers have agreed to lay the greatefl ftrefs, and to refl their proof of the nature of the diforder, I mean the tranfparency of the ^ tumor,2'6^ A TREATISE tumor, is the moft fallible, atid uncertain figii belonging to it: it is a circiimftance which does not depend -upon the quantity, colour, or confiftence of the fluid conftituting the •difeafe, fo much as on the uncertain thick- nefs, or thinnefs of the containing bag, and of the corrimon membranes of the fcrotum. If they are thin, the fluid limpid, and the accumulation made fo quick as not to give the tunica vaginalis time to thicken much, the rays of light may fometimes be feen to pafs through the tumor: but this is accidental, and by no means to be depended upon. Whoever would be acquainted with this dif- order, muft learn to diftinguifh it by other, and thofe more certain marks ; or he will be apt to fall into very difgraceful, as well as pernicious blunders. The colour of the fluid is very different and uncertain ; fometimes it is of a pale yellow, or flraw-colour; fome- times it is inclined to a greenifli caft ; fome- times it is dark, turbid, and bloody; and fometimes it is perfedlly thin and limpid. . In the beo-innino; of the difeafe, if the water be accumulated flowly, and the tunica vagi- nalis thin and lax, the tefticle may eafdy be perceived j but if the faid tunic be firm, or theON THE HYDROCELE, &:C. 2'67 the water accumulated in any confiderable quantity, the teftis cannot be felt at all; and other fymptoms, or marks, muft be attended to. In moft cafes, the fpermatic veflels may be diftindly felt at their exit'from the ab- dominal mufcle, or in the groin ; which will always diftinguifh this complaint from ail in- ternal hernia, the difeafe which it is moft likely to be confounded with. It does indeed now and then happen, that the vaginal coat is diftended fo high, and is fo full, that it is extremely difficult, nay almoft impoffible^ to feel the fpermatic procefs; and it alfo fometimes happens, that the fame kind of obfcurity is occafioned by the addition of aa encyfted colle<£lion of water in the membrane of the chord ; or by the cafe being combined with a true enterocele. Thefe circumftances are not very frequent, but yet do occur ofteri enough to render it well worth while to mention them; and to fignify that, when they are met with, recourfe muft be had to other marks. The general notion formed of this difeafe is, that it confifts of a bag, filled with a fluid, in the middle of which the tefticle hangs fufpended, and by which it is completely furrounded. ThisA TREATISE This idea is not only erroneous, and con- trary to faa, but may be produdive of very mifchievous confequences in pradice. For from fuch conception (or rather mifconcep- tion) of the ftate and difpofition of the parts, it may be inferred, that all points of the tu- mor are equally fit for fuch operation as may become neceflary for the difcharge of the fluid I which is fo far from being the cafe, that in fome parts of it, fuch operation is per- fedlly fafe, eafy, and harmlefs ; in other it is hazardous, painful, and may be produdlive of the moft dreadful confequences. Whoever will take the pains to examine the ftrudure and difpofition of the two coats of the tefticle, the albuginea and vaginalis, will find, that in one part they are fo infeparably united, (being indeed one and the fame membrane) that it is impoflible for any thing to infinuate itfelf be- tween them : while in every other part they are fo abfolutely unconneded, that from the great dilatability of the latter, a large quantity of fluid may be accumulated \ In " Humor magna ex parte, in tunica Erythroide appellata, tefticulum ambiente, in partem anttrlorem colligiturj c^ZLpatiffi- vmm membrana ilia a tejiiculo/eparatur.'^ PaULVS iEciKETA, Mr,ON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 269 In a hydrocele which is tolerably full, the place of this union is the pofterior and fupe- rior, or rather the pofterior and middle part of the tumor. A pundlure or incifion made here, cannot only do no fervice, as it cannot reach the water, and therefore cannot anfwer the intention for which it ought to be made; but muft injure the tefticle, or its epididymis, , and thereby do great mifchief; whereas an opening made in every other part, will not only give difcharge to the water, but can do no harm, and is free from all kind of danger. This natural connexion between the two ■tunics, at the upper and hinder part, is the reafon why, in a fimple hydrocele, that part of the tumor feels fo very unlike to every other. In that, the tunica albuginea, and vaginalis, being immediately continuous, no water can get between them ; and therefore, the fingers of an intelligent examiner muft Mr. Le Dran, whcfe charafter in praftlcal furgery ftands defervedly high, feems to be lefs clear in his idea, and lefs perfpicuous in his account of this difeafe, than of moft others - his account is, " Une vefT.e aqueufe placee fur I'un de tefli- " cules.auquelelleeiladherente; & comme elle devient quel- «' qucfois tres groffe. elle remplit prefque tout le fcrotum." Thi. does not (at leaft to me) convey an idea that the feat ot this difeafe is within the tunica vaginalis teftis. immediatelyA TREATISE immediately difcover the firmnefs and hard- nefs arifing from the union of thefe parts : in all others, the two membranes being uncon- ne6led, and affording a void fpace for the col- kclion of water, the flu(ftuation of it will al- ways be diftihguifliable. This is a circumftance which muft: for ever difcriminate the fimple hydrocele of the tu- nica vaginalis, from the anafarcous fwelling of the fcrotum; from the encyfted hydrocele of the chord; and from the inteftinal herniai The firft is every way equal, tumid and foft; and every where .equally receives and retains the: impreffion of the fingers: the. fecond^ though circumfcribed, not very compreflible, and affording the fenfation of fluduation, yet (fees not pit J and is. alike to the touch in all parts of it; and iii' the third, if the tefticle be; diftinguifliable at all, it is found at the inferior part of the. whole, tumor. An indurated or fcirrhous tefticle has in- deed, very frequently, a quantity of fluid lodged in its vaginal coat; which is a circum- ftance not to be wondered at the difeafed , ftate of the gland being fufficient to account for the non-execution of the abforbent fa- culty, and confequently, for the. colle<Stion of theON THE HYDKOPELE, 8cC. 7 larged. the water. But although part of this mixed! tumor is undoubtedly owing to a fluid, and fuch fluid as is lodged within the vaginal coat, yet it is a very different difeafe from, the true fimple hydrocele, and ought not to be confounded with it; one of thefe marks of the latter being the natural, foft, healthy ftate o/ the tefticle : and the charadteriflic of the. former, being its difeafed and indurated en- largement*". This is a point of more confequence, thaa it may perhaps, upon a curfory view, feem to be. It not only regards. the definitions, but the treatment of the difeafes; and being rightly underftood, and attended to, or not, may be productive of much good or ill. We are,, by moft of the writers on this fub- je£l, advifed in operating for the radical cure of an hydrocele, to regard carefully the ftate and condition of the tefticle j and if we find it en- ' When I fay natural, foft, ami healthy ftate of the tellicle, I do not mean, that the tefticle, in a true, fimple hydrocele, is never altered from its natural ftate, when unafFefted by any" difeafe: I know the contrary; I know that the tefticle, in a hydrocele, is very frequently enlarged in lize, and relaxed, in ftrufture, as well as that its fpermatic velli?ls are often varicofe; I' ufe the words in oppofition to the difeafed in- durated ftate of the fcirrhous teftis.1 -A TREATISE larged, hardened, putrid, ftingotis, or any other way really difeafed, to remove it immediately:' which advice, within proper limitations^ is (Certainly good. A tefticle, in almoft any of the juft-mentioned circumflances, ought un- doubtedly to be removed: but thefe cautions have nothing to do with the true, fimple hy- drocele ; and can relate only to the difeafed, the fcirrhous, or the cancerous tefticle. When thefe diforders are the fubjeft of confideration, then fuch hints and cautions make a very ne- celiary part of it; but they can have no con- cern with the prefent"^. The " Namque ubi forte vel putredOj vel fchirrhus, vel alia quse- " dam corruptio vehemens telliculum invafit, falutarius ex- ** fcindere." Heister. This is alfo the dodtrlne of moft of the writers (a large num- ber in furgery) who have copied each other, both in their ideas of difeafes, and in their propofed method of treating them. Not writing from practice, or from what they have feen,they have related circumftances, under the article of the iimple hy- drocele, which never occur; and have direfted a method of con-^ dad, which, if followed, muft miflead the furgeon, and fubjea the patient to pain, fatigue, and even lofs of parts, without any the lead neceffity. Under the head of radical cure of the fimple hydrocele by incifion, Heifter has mentioned feveral cir- cumftances as necefTary to be attended to for the regulation of the operator's conduft, which circumftances do not occur in that *' difeafe : Deligari autem vafa fpermatica filo, refcindique tefti- *' cuius omnino debet ficuti in cap. de farcocele docuimus, quo- «* tiesON THE: HYDROCELE, &C. The truth is, that the majority both of the' ancient writers and praditioners, mifled by the. found of the term hydrocele^ have mif- taken a mere accidental eifed for a caufe; and '5 ties vafa, feminalia, non infigniter tantum induruerunt, " Ted magnis quoque cruciatibus hom'inem fegrum affligunt. " Defpiciendum quoque porro elt num tefticulus tumefadlus " forte materiam aliquam fluidam, ficut quaudoque contingit, f * intus contineat. Si quid enim fluidi intus ha^rere taftu perci- *• pimus, aut lympham, aut pus inibi confiftere reftiffime colli- " gimus. Interim neque tunc refcindere continue, (ut nonnulli " lent) fed incidere potius, atque expurgare teiticulum ilium " conveniet, &c. Sed fi forte fimul nimis jam tunc induratus, " vel corruptus idem inveniatur, predida ratione, ligandus & refecandus, ne in carcinoma forte abeat." That fuch ftate of the fpermatic velfels andtefticle do occur, is beyond all doubt; but not in the fimple hydrocele; not in the hydrocele that any rational pradtitionercan poflibly deem fit for the attempt for the radical cure by incifion. Neither Is it poffi - ble for a man, who underftands the difeafe at all, not to be ac- quainted with thefe circumftances before-he attempts fuch oper- ation ; and if he is previoufly acquainted with them, he muft be a very extraordinary man indeed to fet about relieving them in j[uch a manner. If the ftate of the telHcle and its vefTels be fuch as to require caftration (a thing always capable of being known beforehand) let that operation at once be performed, in a proper and expeditious manner, and not. by piece-meal, as'it is herede- fcrlbed. If caftration be not requifite, neither can any other part of the operation (with regard to the tefticlc) be foj for notwitli- ftanding thefe defcriptions of incifions into, and expurgations of difcafed tefticles may make a figure in books, they are very unfit to be introduced into_ praftice. They never can do good, they muft do unwarrantable, and generally irremediable mifchicf. Vol,. II.- T have \^74 A TREATISE have fuppofed that the fluid contained in the tunica vaginahs teftis may not only conftitute a difeafe by the mere diftention of it, but may be produ<ftive of other difeafes of the tcfticle itfelf. They have fancied the water to have in itfelf a noxious quality, or difpofition; and that the tefticle, by merely fwimming in it, might become difeafed, and unfit for ufe; whereas in cafes wherein a difordered ftate of the teftis accompanies a colle£bion of water in its vaginal coat, the truth is juft the reverfe of this fuppofition: the teftis is firft difeafed, and the faculty of equal, regular abforption thereby interrupted; by which means a quan- tity of fluid is accumulated, and that mixed appearance produced, which is not improperly called hydro'farcocele. But in this cafe, the extravafation of water is really the confe- quence of the morbid ftate of the gland; and (being ftill mere fimple lymph) neither is, nor can be the caufe of it. They who chufe it, may call this a fpecies of hydrocele; and the literal fenfe of the word will certainly vindicate them; but they will •by that means run the rifk of confounding to- gether, two things extremely unlike to each pther, and which require very different treat- ment;ON THE HYDROCELE, &C, 275 ment: I mean the true limple hydrocele, in which the tefticle is foft, and found, (only perhaps a little more lax, and larger than or- dinary,) and the hydro-farcocele, in which the teftis is not only enlarged, but hardened, and not in a found, or healthy ftate: the for- mer of thefe will permit fuch treatment with perfed fafety, but in the other, may bring the patient into a ftate both of pain and hazard % It may indeed, and does fometimes become neceffary to let out the water from the vagi- nal coat of a tefticle, in fome degree difeafed; but this fhould always be done with caution, and under a guarded prognoftic; left the pa- tient be not only difappoiiited, by not having that permanent relief, which for want of bet- ter information he may be induced to expect:; but be alfo (poffibly) fubje6:ed to other uaex- pe£led inconveniences from the attempt. * Some inftances of this are related iii this traft. Hildanas has given a particular account of a miftake of this kind: " Tncifo fcroto piurimum affluxit aquas, hinc prlmo fubfedit fcrotiim ; poll paacos tamen dies fecutus eft dolor, vehemens ii|flam- " matio & cancrofum ulcus, maximeque malignum ; quod adco impetuofe adjacentes partes occupavit, ut iplius maJignitas ** nuUo modo arceri poSit; fed intra paucos dies maximo cum *' cruciatu e vita deceflit." ,Fab. Hiloanvs. Upon• A TREATISE Upon the whole, as juft definitions, and ae- ctirate diftinftions of difeafes from each other, are abfolutely neceffary towards underftanding them rightly, it feems to me much more pro- per to confine the term hydrocele to the mere fimple accumulation of a fluid within the coats of- the found tefticle, and to refer all thofe which either are combined with, or proceed from, difeafes of that gland, to another clafs. When the difeafe is a perfed, true, fimple hydrocele, the tefticle, though frequently fomewhat enlarged, and perhaps loofened in its vafcular texture, is neverthelefs (as I have already obferved) found, healthy, and capable of executing its proper office; neither is the Ipermatic chord any way altered from a natu? ral ftate, except that its vefifels are generally fomewhat dilated; neither of which circum- flances are objedions either to the palliative or radical cure of the difeafe. But in thofe dif- orders, which in fome degree refemble this, the cafe is different; either the tefticle, or fpermatic chord, or both, bearing evident marks of a difeafed ftate. In the true, fimple hydrocele, the water is accumulated merely from the non-execution of the office of the abforbent vefifels; which (whatever ultimate caufeON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 277 caufe it may have) leaves no appearance of real difeafe on the parts: in all the other col- le(5lions of fluid in this part, there are fuch appearances and marks of diftejmper, as may clearly convince us, that the extravafation is only a confequence of fuch flate. The two principal complaints, liable to be miftaken for an hydrocele, are, that kind of fcirrhous tefticle in w^hich an extravafation of fluid is made in the tunica vaginalis; and the venereal induration of the tefticle, at- tended with the fame circumftance. One of thefe is always a difeafe of the general habit; the other too often fo. One requires, and generally fubmits to, a proper courfe of fpecific remedies; for the other (notwithftanding all that has been faid on the fubjed) we as yet know of none; and .therefore it is feldom cured but by total re- moval. In neither of thefe, can the mere dif- charge of the fluid contribute any thing ma- terial,, toward a cure; and in both of them, .fuch attempt, injudicioufly made, has often proved both painful and hazardous. In the true venereal farcocele, or indurated teftis, the difeafe ought always to be eradicated from the habit before any attempt be made T 3 locally:ZyS A TREATISE locally: thfe mere difcharge of the water can never remove the obftru<5tion in the gland; but when fuch objftruftion has been by proper remedies removed, it is no uncommon thing to have the extravafated fluid again abforbed; or if it be not^ and any operation becomes ne- ceflary, a foft, eafy, healthy ftate of the tefti- cle, is certainly preferable to an indurated dif-- eafed one, Thefe two c^fes, or, to fpeak more properly, thefe two ilates of the tefticle, although they agree ih this one circumftance of not being eflentiaily relieved by the mere evacuation of the water, do yet differ fo widely in almoil: tvery other, that it behoves praftitioners to be very careful in diftinguifhing between them. That method of treating the venereal indura- tion, which is moft frequently fuccefsful, will prove highly prejudicial in the fcirrhous hard- nefs. By mercury, in judicious hands, the pocky patient's difeafe may be removed, and his health reflored: but 1 have hardly ever feen a fcirrhus or cancer that was not exafper- ated, and made worfe by it. Or, if that does not happen, yet, a mercurial courfe, in fuch cafe, will always occafion a lofs of time, which is not always retrievable. In fhort, he whoON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 279 who treats a fcirrhous tefticle as he ought to do a venereal one, will not cure the difeafe, but wafte his patient's time, and hurt his ge- neral health: and he who treats a venereal one as he moft frequently ought to do a fcirrhus, will, without any neceffity, fubmit his patient to a painful operation, and thereby deprive him of a part very eflential to him as a man. CASE XV. A GENTLEMAN, about thirty years old fhewed me his tefticle, which was both en- larged, and hardened, and had very palpably a quantity of fluit^in the vaginal coat. He had been told, that it was a water rupture, and that it might be immediately cured by means of a fmall incifion. The whole tefticle and epididymis was (as I have already faid) large and hard; and fb was the vas deferens, and part of the fperma- tic procefs; but there was no kind of inequa- lity on the furface; neither did it give the pa- tient any pain, except what proceeded from its mere weight. Ke had fome brown fpots on his breaft; a hardnefs below the fr^num penis; a raggednefs and induration of the T 4 edges28o A TREATISE edges of the finis of the left tonfil; a pale plumbean countenance; and complained much of frequent pains in his knees, and elbows. I made no fcrnple to inform him that he appeared to me to be poxed; and that I did verily beheve, that the diforder in his tefticle arofe from the fame caufe. I took pains to diffuade him from fubmitting to any attempt toward curing his local complaint in the tef- tis, until he Ihould have got rid of the difeafe 'which had infedled his whole habit, by affur- inghim, that if what'had been propofed to "him was intended merely to let out the water, it could not even contribute to his beinsrmade well; and that if more than that was defined, he might probably experience more harm than good from the attempt. Not fatisfied with my opinion, he went to Mr. Sainthill, who gave him the fame kind of advice. In a little time he applied to a gentleman well known for promifing impoffibilities; who told him, that this was a difeafe with which the faculty were perfectly unacquainted; and if he would give him ten guineas, and take a lodging near him, he would undertake to cure him in a Vi^eek. HeON THE HYDROCELE, &c. 281 He made an incifion of about half an inch in length, in the very inferior part of the tii- «ior, and let, out a fmall quantity of bloody water; and then applied a pledget of lint, and a piece of rticking-plaifter. The patient paffed the night in a good deal of pain, and in the morning found his tefticle much fwelled, and very uneafy. He fent for his operator, who faid, that this was of no confequencCjj. and that if he would keep quiet that day, he would be very well the next. On the third day his tefticle was fo large, fo inflamed, and fo painful, that he became exceedingly alarm- ed, and fent for me. I found the fcrotum Highly inflamed; the tefticle and fpermatic procefs large and hard; his pain exceedingly great; his pulfe hard, full, and frequent; and his Ikiri hot and dry. I bled him freely, and ordered him a glyfter, and a lenient purge, and wrapped the tefticle up in a foft poultice. Next day, both the pa- tient and the parts were in the fame ftate.' 1 bled him again; and his glyfter and purge hav- ing thoroughly emptied him, T gave him two grains extrad. thebaic, and direacd that he Ihould take one grain every fix hours, until fome eafe of reft was procured. Two days were fpeut before any remiflion of fymptoms wasA TREATISE was obtained: and it was near a fortnight, be- fore the conftant ufe and application of fo- mentation, cataplafm, &Ci together with a general antiphlogiftic regimen, and confine- ment to bed the whole time, had reduced the tefticle to fuch flate as to bear examination. When it became capable of this, it was found large and hard, but without any water in the tunica vaginalis. His general habit being re- cruited by a proper regimen, country air, and the bark; he was then put into a mercurial courfe, by inundion; under which all his other fymptoms gradually difappeared, fo likewife did his induration of the tefticle. CASE XVI. A ;pooR labouring man in Efiex, got a ve- nereal hernia humoralis. As his daily work would not permit him to take proper care of himfelf, it was a confiderable while before he had got rid of his inflammatory fymptoms; and when he had fodone, a part of the tefticle and the whole epididymus were left hard, and rather too large. In getting over a high ftile he miffed his footftep, and ftruck his fcrotum with violence againft the upper rail: the blow gave him exceffive pain for fome minutes;ON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 283 but that foon ceafed, and he went on with his day's work. Next day his tefticle ap- peared fwelled, and was painful to the touch; but as the man had no fubUftence but frorn his labour, he was obliged to follow it; At the end of a week, he was fo much worfe that he could go out no longer; and making his cafe known to fome gentlemen, who ufed to employ him, a neighbouring praditioner was defired to viiit him. A flu£tuation being felt, it was fuppofed to be matter; and a warm ad- helive plafter was applied to forward it. In a few days an opening was made for difcharge of the fuppofed pus, but nothing followed ex- cept a very fmall quantity of bloody ferum. The fmallnefs of the quantity, and the nature of the fluid, joined to the very fmall fub- fidence of the tumor, induced the furgeon to think he had not gone deep enough; and to thruft a lancet farther in: this was attended with acute pain, and followed by a copious haemorrhage, which was not eafily reftrained; or, to fpeak more properly, did not foon ceafe. Inflammation, pain, tumefadion, &c, fol- lowed this method of proceeding; and at the end of a week, the man was brought to St. Bartholomew's hofpitaL Upon284 . A TREATISE Upon mere fight of the part, I (hould have fuppofed the cafe to have been a fcirrhus of the malignant kind: the tefticle, or fcrotum, was large, hard, unequal, of a deep red dulky colour, with diftended veins, and fo painful that it could not bear the flighteft touch; and the fpermatic procefs was far from being in a natural or a healthy ftate. The man com** plained of conftant pain in his back; the wound difcharged a bloody,'offenfive gleet; and long pain, and w^nt of reft, had given- him a very difeafed afpecJil. Nothing but the clear, and circumftantial account, which both the man and the furgeon who had attended him (and who came with him to the hofpitai) gave, could have induced me to have thought the cafe to be any other than "What I have juft mentioned; but they werd fb pofitive, and fo confiftent, that I thought myfelf obliged to regard what they faid, and to 3(51: ac'cdrdirlgly. By phlebotomy, evacuations, anodynes, reft, low regimen, and the general antiphlogiftic method, purfued vigoroufly, and long, h« got a cure. o CASEON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 285 CASE XVII. . A GENTLEMAN about thirty-feveii years old,' apparently in good health, alked my ad- vice concerning a difeafed appearance in his fcrotiim, for the relief of which he had come , from a confiderable diftance to this town. -'-^ -- The tefticle was not much increafed in fize, but had loft its equality of furface, and "was craggy, and very hard; the vas'deferens and epididymis were in the fame indurated ftate; the fpermatic chord was fomewhat varicofe^ but not hard; and in the cavity of the tunica vaginalis was palpably a fmall quantity- of fluid. It Vv^as fomewhat tender to the fou6h; biit the pain upon being handled v^as'vety flight,' in comparifon of what was felt an hour or two after fuch examination; at -which time, although the pains were not conftant, but rather attacked the part by intervals, yet they were extremely acute. '■' He faid, that he had been told that his com- plaint Was' venereal, (to which opinion his .method of life much incHned him to adhere) and that he had alfo a beginning hydrocele. 1 replied, that I wifhed, for his fake, that I C0UI4 think fo too; but that I had no doubt of its286 A TREATISE its being a fcirrhus, which would not lone remain ^uiet. He feemed diflatisfiedj and faid, that confidering the perfon who had pro- nounced his cafe to be venereal was a man of charadler in his profellion, and whofe judg- ment he believed was good, he thought I was rather too peremptory. I defired him to take the opinion of fome people of eminence in London, and named fome to him: whether he did or not, I know not; but in about a fortnight or three weeks, I received a letter from him out of the coun- try, fignifying, that his friend was fo clear in his firft opinion, that the cafe was venereal, that he had prevailed on him to fubmit to a falivation for it; and that he only now defired my opinion concerning the beft method of procuring it; that is, whether he Ihould at- tempt it by internals, or by mercurial inunc- tibn. I wrote back, that I was forry to differ from his friend, or to feem too tenacious of, or partial to, my own opinion, and fincerely wiftied 1 might be miftaken; that I looked upon the method of falivating by inundion to be in general the leaft fatiguing or prejudi- cial to the conftitution ; and that in the cafe of particular, local induration, it certainly had theON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 287 the advantage of being applied immediately to fhe part afFedled; and therefore, if I could think that his complaint was venereal, I fhould undoubtedly prefer the ufe of the ointment to every internal means; but that I was fo tho- roughly latisfied that it was not, and fo averfe to the ufe of mercury for him, that I defired him to keep that letter as my proteft againfl the procefs he was going into. The ointment was freely ufed for above a month, but no alteration appeared in the tef- , tide, except that it became rather larger and more tender to the touch. - As the mercurial ointment happened not to affeft his mouth, or make him fpit any confi- derable quantity, the inefficacy of it with re- gard to the tefticle was imputed to that; and a courfe of the mercurius calcinatus, with the kermes mineral, undertaken and followed for another month. During this, the tefticle ma- nifeftly increafed in fize, became more un- equal, and more frequently painful. He now came to London again; and calling on me, told me all that had pafled; but being ftill pof- fefled with the venereal idea, faid that he , was come hither in order to try the Lilbon diet- drink, or fomething of that kind. At288 A TREATISE At my requeft he (hewed his difeafe to Mr^ Nourfe and Mr. Sainthill, who were clear that it was not venereal, and advifed the operation. This^he would not hear of at prefent, having got it into his head that when every thing elfe had been, tried, it would always be time enough for that. During three w^eeks that he ftaid here, he drank, by the diredion of fome friend, every day a quart of ftrong de- Go6tion of farfaparilla, with fome of .the fubli- mate folution in it. The tefticle continued to increafe, and the fpermatic Vein became fomewhat varicofe : biit ftill there; was a fair opportunity for extirpation. He did now in- deed begin to incline to it; ,but being confider- aMy'reduced in' ftrerigth and flefh by what he had taken, he would not comply wit?h it un- til'lie had been in the country, and was fome- what recruited: to which I could not objed, ife-%e then did not-appear to be a fit fubjeft for fuch an operation ; I mean, on account of his-great redu6lion of ftrength. At the end of two months, he came to me again. I was much concerned to fee him fo much altered for the worfe; he was emaci- ated to the greateft degree; and had fuch a leaden palenefs in his countenance, that had I 5 knowiiON THE HYDROCELE, .&C. 289 known nothing of him, I flioiild haye con- chicled that fuch a man had a cancer about him. He had totally loft his appetite, and was ilever free from pain : his tcfticle was at leaft twice the fize as when I lalT; had feen it, and the whole procefs, quite up ^o the belly, large; hard, and knotty. - i vvoyld now by no means propofe the oper- ation ; a confultation of phyficians was there- fore had, in which the folanum was prefcribed. This was immediately tried, and proved here, as it has wherever I have feen it ufed; that is, the patient was much difordered by it in general, and received no benefit w^ith reg-ard to his difeafe: but as this affair happened not long after this poifon had been in a kind of vogue, it was repeated until the patient could hardly fee or hold his hand ftilL When this was laid afide, recourfe was had to the cicuta, which, as ufual, was perfedly inefficacious : to it, however, a fair trial was given. And when the poor man had thus made experi- ment of our moft boafted fpecifics, and was fatisfied, that no honeft or judicious man would attempt the operation, we had re- VoL. 11. ■ U courfeA TkeATISE courfe to opium, during a few weeks that he exifted. When dead, I examined him. The fpermatic procefs was thoroughly dif- eafed, about half-way up from the groin to the kidney; that is, it was enlarged, hard, and very full of knots; but I did not find any •apparent difeafe in any other part Within the abdomen. CASE XVIII. I RECEIVED a letter from Lincolnfliire, in the month of November, defiring to know whether that feafon of the year was an iiii- proper one for the operation of caftration, in the cafe of a fcirrhous tefticle ? for that, if I did not, a patient labouring under fuch com- plaint would fet out immediately upon the receipt of my anfwer. I wrote back, that the ftate and nature of the difeafe were of much more confequence "toward determining the propriety or impro- priety of an operation, than the time of the ■ year could be: and therefore I defired either that I mio;ht have a cireumftantial account of the cafe,'frome fome medical man, or that the patientON THE HYDROCELE, &c. 29! patient would come to London. In about a week I received another letter, containing the following account* That the patient was thirty-five years old; that previous to the appearance of the difeafe in the tefticle, he had for fome weeks been troubled with frequent and acute pains in his back and loins j that the tefticle was confider- ably enlarged, indurated, and (in its pofterior part) unequal in its furface; that part of the fpermatic procefs, neareft to the teftis, was too hard alfo ; that the whole of it was now perfedly free from pain; that the patient was a married man, much fubjed to fcorbutic eruptions, and flying pains, from the fame caufe; that his appetite was fallen off, and his afped become pale and wan ; that he had taken a confiderable quantity of the cicuta, and as much of the infufion of the folanum as his weak ftate would bear; that from the former he had neither experienced good nor harm, but that the latter had difagreed with him extremely; that he was now determined for the operation ; and that he would be in London in a few days. In lefs than a fortnight he came to me. .He-was extremely thin; and had a counte- 2 nance292 A TREATISE nance fo pale, and eyes fo languid, that I made no doubt that his nights were fleeplefs. His tefticle was large and hard, but perfedtly equal, and perfedly indolent; the tunica va- ginalis contained a fmall quantity of limpid fluid; and the vas deferens, and epididymis had that kind of enlargement and induration which frequently accompanies a hernia hu- moralis : but the fpermatic veffels were in a natural ftate, of proper fize, and free from all kind of induration. He was fo hoarfe, that I con Id hardly hear him fpeak; and fo deaf, that it was as difficult to make him hear. He complained much of frequent pains in his flioulders and elbows, one of the latter of which was confiderably ftifFened. The biceps mufcle of the left arm was hard and gummy; on one of his eye-brows was a large fpot, with a thin fcab on it; and, between the fcapulcE, were four or five of the fame. I told him, that I had no doubt that his deafnefs, hoarfenefs, pains, fpots, fwellings, &c.- were all venereal; and that I was much hiclined to believe, that the complaint in his tefticle proceeded from the fame caufe. He did as venereal patients are frequently too apt to do; that is, he endeavoured to render my opinionON THE HYDROCELE, &:c. 293 opinion improbable, by attefting, that there had been an interval of fome years fince he had held any illicit commerce with any wo- man whom he could fuppofe capable of in- juring him; that he had been two or three years married; had only had a flight (hanker, of which he was fure he-had been well cured, &e. • , I anfwered, that I was clear in my opinion; and would undertake to ferve him on no other principle; but defired him to take the judg- ment of fome other gentlemen of the profef- fion.: which he did, and returned to me again with an account, that they thought of his pafe as I had done. The weakened redaced ftate in which he wa§, and a natural difpofition which he had to a htemoptyfis, obliged me to proceed very cautioufly : his ftomach would bear no medi- cine of the mercurial kind ; and a very little acceleration of pulfe made him hawk up a bloody phlegm. I tberefo}-^ determined upon the ointment in fmall (Quantities, and to do in this cafe what I have done in fimila;* pafes feveral times ; that is, as foon as ever the mercury raifed the pulfe, or began to af- fed the mouth, I ordered him to take a de- U 3 cod.^94 A TREATISE 8 again. co£t. corticis twice or thrice a day, through the whole of the fahvation. By thefe rneans he got rid of all his com- plaints, both general and particular, and came out of his mercurial courfe with a more' healthy afped, and more flefh on his bones, than he went into it. Before I proceed to give an account of the fneans ufed for the relief, or cure, of the hy- drocele of the tunica vaginalis teftis, it may Xiot be improper to inform the reader, that I have twice in my life feen this difeafe, though jn a confirmed {late^ and in adult patients, fiifperfe, CASE XIX. A GENTLEMAN about forty-five years old, confulted me on account of a fwelling in his fcrotum, which was not very large, but pal- pably contained a fluid, and was fo circum- l^:anced in every refped, as to prove it to be a true hydrocele of the vaginal tunic; from which I advifed him to have the water im- mediately drawn off, As it was not very troublefome to him, he did not chufe to have it done then; but went ftway, telling me, that 1 fhould foon fee himON THE HYDROCELE, &:C. ;S9.5 U 4 which again. He took the opinions of two others, both of whom told him the fame thing, and gave him the fame advice. At the end of half a year he came to me again, with the fcrotum full, and of a pyriform figure, and fo large as to be very evident through his breeches. I would have tapped him immediately, but as he had never feen any thing of the kind, I could not convince him that it would not confine him the next day; and as he had fome particular bufmefs to tranfa(n: in the country, he chofe to go thither firft, and to fubmit to the operation when he fhould return from thence. I faw no more of him for near two months; at the end of which time he called upon me, and fhewed me a fcrotum perfeclly empty, and free from difeafe. Taking; it for granted that he had been tapped, I alked him who had done it for him: he told me, that before he could finifh the bufinefs for which he went into the country, he was feized (for the firft time in his life) with a fevere fit of the gout; which had con- fined him to his bed for fix weeks; during^9^ ' A TREATISE 5 hi which confinement, his fwelUng had gradu- ally and totally diffipated. I have often feen him fince, and he ftiU remains perfedlj free from all appearance of difeafe. CASE XX. A MIDDLE-AGED maiifhewed me a hydro- cele of the vaginal tunic, whiph had been near two years colleaing, but frcm which the water had never been drawni' I advifed him to have it done foon, and he. fix^d on the next morning. In his way home he got fuddled; fell down into the area of an empty: houfe, and. in his fall ftruck his fci-otum/ agaifift.a piece, of fcafFolding. In the morning early he fent for me. I fouijid him in bed, with a great ecchymofis under the ikin of the fcrotlim, which was much fwollen, and very painful- J: would have perfuaded him to have, permitted me ;to let the water out, (thinking thereby to have taken off part of the tenfion) but he would notcoiifent; and I was obliged to have re- comfe to fomentation, cataplafm, &c.ON THE HYDROCELE, &C. ■ 297 111 about a fortnight, all the ecchymofis was diffipated, and all the fwelling from the found fide of the fcrotum; and both the pa- tient, and myfelf thought, that the tumor from the hydrocele was confiderably lefs than it was before the accident. By perfifting ia the fame method, for about three weeks more, the whole of it difappeared, nor has returned fince. Nor have I, ever fmce, feen the fame attempt fucceed. SECT VIII. METHODS OF CURING THE HYDROCELE OF THE VAGINAL COAT. The methods of cure (as they are called) in this fpecies of hydrocele, though various, are reducible to two, (viz.) the paUiative, or that which pretends only to relieve the dif- eafe in prefent, by difcharging the. fluid; and the radical, or that which aims at a per- fea cure, without leaving a poffibility of re- lapfe. The end of the former is accomplifhed by merely opening the containing bag in fuch mannerA TREATISE manner as to let out the water: that of the latter cannot be obtained., unlefs the cavity of that bag be aboHfhed; and no receptacle for a future accumulation left. One, may be prac- tifed at all times of the patient's hfe, and in tzlmoji any ftate of health and habit: the other lies under fome reftraints and prohibitions; arifing from the circumftances of age, confti- tution, ftate of the parts, &c. &c. &c. The palliative cure, (as 1 have juft ob- ferved) confifts in merely giving difcharge to the fluid vi'hxch is contained in, and diftends, the tunica vaginalis. The operation by which this may be ac- complifhed, is a very fimple one. The only circumftances requiring oja(f^ attention in it, are, the inftrument wherewith we would perform it; and the place or part of the tu- mor, into which fuch inftrument fhould be pafled. The two inftruments in ufe, are the com- mon bleeding lancet, and the trocar. The former having the finer point, may poffibly pafs in rather the eafier, (though the difference is hardly perceptible) but is, in my opinion, liable to inconveniences, to which the latter is not. The trocaj-, by means of its'V KON THE HyDROCEJLE, &C. 299 its cannula, fecures the exit of the whole fluid without a poffibility of prevention ; the lancet cannot. And therefore it frequently happens when this inftrument is ufed, either, that fome of the water is left behind; or that fome degree of handling and fqueezing is re- quired for its expuHion; or, that the intro- du6tion of a probe, or adireftor, or fome fuch inftrument, becomes neceffary for the fame purpofe. The former of thefe may in fome habits be produftive of inflammation ^: the latter prolongs what would otherwife be a fliort operation, and multiplies the neceilary inftruments; which, in every operation ia furgery, is wrong. To which it may be added, that if any of the fluid be left in the vaginal coat, or infinuates itfelf into the cells of the dartos, the patient will have reafon to think the operation imperfecl, and to fear that he fhall not reap even the temporary advantage which he expeded. The place where this pundure ought to be made, is a circumftance of much more real confequence ; the fuccefs » A confequence which I have feen to proceed from it, at- tended with a flough of the whole dartos, and which I am much inclined to believe would not have happened in the fame per- fon, had the water been drawn off by a trocar. of3®^ A TREATISE of the attempt, the eafe, and even fometimes the fafety of the patient, depending upon it. Whoever conceives, as many have done, and fome ftill do, that the teflicle hangs loofe in the middle of the water within the vadnal o coat (like a clapper within a bell) muft alfo fuppofe that every part of the general tumor is equally fit and prdpeF for this operation. The idea is erroneous, and the experiment may prove highly mifchievous'. All the ante^ rior and lateral parts of the vaginal coat are loofe and detached from the albuginea ; in its pofierior and fuperior part, thefe two tunics make one; confequently the tefticle is, as it were, affixed to the pofierior and fuperior part of the cavity of the fac of an hydrocele; and confequently, the watei; or fluid can never get quite round it. This being the ftate of the cafe, the operation ought always to be performed on that part of the tumor, where the two coats are at the greatefl diflance from each other, and where the fluid mufl there-: fore be accumulated in the largefl: quantity; and never on that part of it where the fluid cannot poffibly be. The confequence of ad- ing othervvife, mufl: not only produce a difap- pointment, by not reaching the.laid fluid; butON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 30I may prove, and has proved, highly and even fatally mifchievous to the patient. It was a cuftom formerly, after perforrri- ing this operation, to make nfe of fomenta- tions, and difciitient applications, upon a fup- pohtion that by fuch means a return of the difeafe might be prevented. xA.mong the old writers, are to be found the forms of medi- cines to be applied to the groin and fcrotum,- to prevent a future defcent of the fluid ; but anatomy, and experience, have proved the falfliood of fuch fuppofition, and the abfurdity of fuch applications: the prefent pradtitioners content themfelves with a bit of lint, and a plafter; and if the fcrotum has been conii- derably diftended, they fufpend it in a bag trufs; and give the patient no farther trouble. In moft people, the orifice thus made heals in a few hours, (like that made for blood-letting;) but in fome habits and cir- cumftances, it inflames and fefters; this fef- tering is generally fuperficial only, and is foon quieted by any Ample drefling; but it fometimes is fo confiderable, and extends fa deep, as to affed the vaginal coat, and by accident produce a radical cure. I have alfo feen it prove ftill more troublefome, and cvei;002 A TREATISE even fatal: but then the circumflances both of the patient, and of the cafe, have been par- ticular, and fuch as required attention* (See Cafes 21 and 22.) Whether it arofe from a fear of woundino' theteftielein the operation; or from a fuppo- fition that while the quantity was fmall, it was more likely to difperfe; or that while there was but little fluid, tliey did not think the difeafe fufficiently charadterifed; or frorn fome other reafon, which they have noC thought fit to give us; but many writers of good authority, (and among them Mr. Ser- jeant Wifeman,) have forbid the pundure iti an adult, while the quantity may be fuppofed to be under a pint: which reftridion is ftiU fcrupTiloufly attended to by many pradition- ers, to the no fmall trouble and inconvenience of their patients. When there is a fufficient quantity of fluid to keep the teftiele from the inftrument, there can be no reafon for deferring the difcharge; and the lingle point on which this argument ouffht to reft, is this: " Whether the abforb- '* ent veflels, by which the extravafation ftiould be prevented, are more likely to re- aflume their office, while the vaginal coat " is.ON THE HYDROCELE, SCC. JOJ ** is thin, and has fuffered but little violence " from diftention; or after it has been ftretched and diftended to ten or perhaps twenty times; •* its natural capacity; and by fuch diftention ** is (like all other membranes) become thick, " hard, and tough ?" For my own part, I think the probability fo much morfc on the fide of the former, that I fhould hevef hefitate a moment about letting out the water, as fooa as I found that the pundure could be made fecurely. And from what has happened within, the fmall circle of my own experience, I am inclined to believe, that if it was performed more early than it generally is, it might fome* times prevent the return of the difeafe. CASE XXL A GENTLEMAN, tumed of fixty, came to me with an hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis. He was corpulent, full habited, inclined ta be afthmatic, and fubjed: to an irregular kind of gouty inflammation, which attacked differ- ent .parts of him, at different times. The dif- eafe was on the right fide, the fcrotum much diftended, and on the Ikin of it was an inflam- matory kind of blufli. His pulfe was hard, and^ 304 A TREATISE and as^I thought too frequent, and he feemed to me to have a degree of heat and thirfl, not confiftent with health. His age, his habit^ his general ftate, and what I apprehended to be the ftate of the fac, all forbade anj attempt but the pun6lure; and I t6ok fome pains to diffuade him from that, until hbi.fliould have removed both his general complaints,- and the local inflammation on the fcrotum. He faid, that he felt himfelf perfe£lly well; that he was fure he had no gout about him then; that what I took for an inflammation on the fcro- tum was only a fcorbutic eruption to which he was frequently fubjed; and concluded with a hint, that he thought whatever fhould be done previous to letting out the water, could be defigned only for my own benefit, by leno-thenino; the time of my attendance. I pierced the middle and anterior part of the fcrotum with a fmall-trocar, and drew off near a quart of a greenifli fluid; I put a bit of lint and plafter on the orifice, and as the empty fcrotum hung very loofe, and flabby; I per- •fuaded him to let it be fufpended in- a bag- trufs. In the afternoon he went out; and at night finding that the plafter was rubbed,off, and thinkingON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 305 thinking that the fufpenfory was put on for. no other reafon, but merely to keep the drefl- •ing on, he took off his bandage. Next day he went out again, walked a good deal, drank freely after dinner, and when he canne to his lodging in the evening he went to bed much out of order. In the night he had a fevere rigor, for which he took a large fpoon- ful of a tindlure of fnake-root and faffron, which he always kept by him. On the third day, finding his fcrotum much fwoUen, and very uneafy, he fent for me. I found him in bed, complaining of great pain in the lower part of his belly, and groin: his pulfe was quick, hard, and irregular;. his Ikin hot; his tongue dry, and black; his coun- tenance flufhed; and his mtelledts not quite fteady. His fcrotum was fwelled arid inflamed all over; and in a part, confiderably diftant fj>om the punfture, was a mortified fpot as bio; as a fhillino-. After I had drefled him, I defired, as he was quite a ftranger to me, as well as to the peo- ple of the houfe where he lodged, that he might have more alTiftance: accordingly a phyfician was fent for, who prefcribed for him. At the end of three days one half of Vol. II. X theA TREATISE the fcrotum was completely mortified; and In about feven more it caft off, with fo large a portion of the tunica vaginalis, that I had no doubt that none of it was left. The sout now made an attack on his feet, and the inflammation left all other parts; the fore put on a good afped, and in a ihort time he got well. But notwithftanding the very large portion of the vaginal coat which came away in a flough, I have twice fmce drawn off a full pint of water from the fame fide. CASE XXII. A MAN about forty, affllded with a large hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis, and which, from a mifapprehenfion of the true nature of the difeafe, he had never confulted any body about, having been robbed by a fervant of a confiderable fum of money, was obhged to travel very hard, on horfeback, from the neighbourhood of Exeter, to London. When he fet out, his fcrotum was free from all difeafe, except its diftention by the the water; but when he came to this town, it was covered all over with an inflammation of the eryfipelatous kind; was much increafed inON THE HYDROCELE, &C. ^07 111 lizC) and very painful to the touch. He was much fatigued with his journey, and jufl before he went to bed in the. evening, had a fhivering, which was followed by a very reft- lefs night, and a confiderable degree of fever. In the morning his fcrotum was fo much in- flamed, that he was alarmed at the appear- ance, and fent for affiftance. The perfon who came to him, immediately made an opening, by means of a pointed knife, into the tunica vaginalis, and gave difcharge to a confiderable quantity of water; but by night, the whole fcrotum was mortified. That evening I faw him, but without any hopes of being able to ferve him. His pulfe, which had been full, hard, and rapid, was now fmall, and faultering; his head was very unfteady, and his extremities cold; all the tumefadlion t)f the fcrotum was gone, and it feemed one large efchar. On the next mornino^ he died. Now, though it be very poffible, that the fame appearance and event might have enfued, if no pundure had been made; yet I think i,t is very clear, that it would have been more prudent to have tried firft whac a foft cata- plafm, and an antiphlogiftic method could have done. For, by making the opening X2 haflily.jbS" A TREATISE Haflily, and without a proper prognoftic, the operator, (whether defervedly or not) iiicur- ed all the blame. CASE XXIII. - A POOR man was brought from the neigh- bourhood of Rofemary-larie, to.St. Bartholo- mew's hofpital. His fcrotum was of prodigious fize; very hard, exceffively inflamed, quite up to his groin j "it was of a dulky red colour; extremely pain- ful to the touch; and in one part feemed in- chned to fphacelatc; the fpermatic procefs alfo was confiderably thickened. He had a hard, full, rapid pulfe; a hot ikin, a flufhed countenance, great thirft; and complained of moft excruciating pain in his back. The account he gave was, that he had, for fome years, been troubled with a fwelling on the right fide of his fcrotum, which fome of the furgeons of St. Thomas's hofpital had told him was a water-rupture, and would have tapped: that he had alfo applied to feve- i-al rupture-dodors, each of whom had fold him a bandage, and fome of them had pre- tended to cure him by medicines and applica- tions ;ON THB HYDROCELE, ScC, ^i'O'^ tions; that finding no relief from any of thefe, he had a few days before given an itinerant ftage-quack three guineas to cure him. That this operator laid him on his back, on a couch, and lifting up the tumor, thruft an inftrument into it. That no difcharge followed but blood. That it bled for near a quarter of an hour, and then flopped upon his fainting away. That from the time of this operation (which was two days) he had been in extreme pain; and, that his operator not coming to take any. care of him, his friends had brought him to the hofpital. He was immediately bled, had a glyfter injeded, and thefcrotum was enveloped in a foft, warm poultice, and tied up in a bag trufs. When he had paffed a ftool, I or- dered him a grain of extract, thebaic, to be taken immediately, and repeated again at the diftance of fix or eight hours. Next day he was' much the fame in every refpedl; his pain was excefiive, particularly in his back, and he had not clofed his eyes. I bled him again freely, (he had two fi:ools in the night) and gave him two grains of opium, and direc- tion to repeat one grain every fix hours until he got eafe and flecp. His fcrotum was well fomented, and the cataplafm continued. Two ^ X 3 daysA TREATISE days more were fpent in this manner, before we obtained any remiffion of the fymptoms; when that was done, I pierced the anterior part of the tumor, and drew off more than a pint of bloody ferum. The tefticle now ap- peared very much enlarged, and hardened; but, by perfifting in the antiphlogiftic ine- thod, he at length got well. I.fuppofe the reader will have as little doubt as I have, that all this mifchief was produced by wounding the tefticle, or epididymis, CASE XXIV. A YOUNG fellow, who was waiter at a ta- vern in the city, and who had for fome months paft laboured under a fucceffion of pocky fymptoms, had at laft a true venereal fareo- cele, with a fmall quantity of fluid in the va- ginal coat. As he had feveral other venereal fymptoms then upon him, and his way of life fubje£ted him to great irregularity, I advifed him to ob- tain leave to quit his place, and attend to his eyre. This he did not chufe to comply with; and I heard no more of him till about a month afterwards,ON THE HYDROCELE, &C. ^Ih afterwards, when his mafter delired me to call at his houfe. I found the lad in bed, with a high fever, and with his fcrotum fwelledand inflamed-to a very great degree. He faid, that two days before he had met with an acquaintance, (a furseon's mate of a man of war) who told him, that his whole complaint was a water-, rupture, and that for a bottle of claret he would cure him immediately. That he had thruft a lancet deep into the lower part of the fwelling; that nothing followed but blood; that he had fpent fome minutes in poking into it with a probe, in hopes of getting the water out, but ineffectually; but that he had been in racking pain ever fince. Phlebotomy, glyfters, opiates, febrifuge medicines, &c. were all employed, by which means his pain, fever, &c. were at length got the better of; but almoft the whole tefticle caft off in one large flough. MEANS FOR A RADICAL CURE. Every other method of treating: this kind of hydrocele, except the puniflure, was either originally intended to obtain a radical cure; X 4 or,^li A TREATISE or, having been found to have been often pro- du<Slive of fuch, has been, by different people, ranked fometimes among the palliative, fome- times amonc: the radical means. la many of the old writers are found direc- tions for obtaining the cure of this difeafe by the ufe of a feton, a cannula, a tent, a cauftic, a ligature, an injedlion, or an incifion. Some of thefe are adopted or preferred by one, and fome by another, according to the theory which they entertained of the diforder, or to the benefits which they had feen to have accidentally arifen from the ufe of the faid means. To reduce thefe under fome kind of method, (which the manner of their being delivered to \js, does in general not very eafily admit) we may fay, that the feton, the tent, and the can- nula, were either originally meant to palliate a difeafe, of which the old praditioners had very difagreeable apprehenfions; or that they were made ufe of upon a fuppoiition that the fluid contained in the cyft was in itfelf noxious ; , or that the general habit of the pa- tient wa^s relieved, and many other diforders prevented by the faid humor fahing, or being depofited in that part; or from an opinion thatON THE HYDROCELE, Szc, ' the cure of it ought not, by any means to be haftily or rafhly attempted: that the cauftic, (Cautery, and hgature, were defigned to prevent the fuppofed defcent of the water from the abdomen into the fcrotum: and, that the in- jeflion was calculated for the conftridion of a fuppofed breach in lymphatic veffels. Some of thefe (happily for mankind) are now quite laid alide; the reafons for their ufe being found to be falfe and grouiidlefs; of this kind are the cautery, the ligature, and the in- jedlion. The water is now, by every body, who has made any inquiry into the matter, known to be formed and collected in the part where it is found; and not to have fallen into it from the belly: and, though an obftrudion in the lymphatic veffels of the fpermatic chord, may in fome degree prevent the regu- lar and due abforption of the fluid from the vaginal tunic, yet, no breach or rupture of fuch veffels can ever produce the difeafe in queflion : the extravafation, in fuch cafe, muft be in another part; and may poffibly caufe a hydrocele of the cellular kind, in the common membrane of the fpermatic veffels, but which can never be found within the tunica vagi- nalis. The3^4 A TREATISE The reafons originally given for the ufe of the tent and the cannula, viz. the noxious quality of the fluid, and the neceffity of a gradual cure, are now alfo known and ac- knowledged to be without foundation; and therefore though thefe methods, or methods like thefe, do ftill continue to be ufed, yet it is with another view, and upon other princi- ples : not with intention to lengthen the time of a cure, by making a gradual drain for the prevention of other diforders; but merely to abolifh the cavity of the tunica vaginahs, by having excited and maintained fuch a degree ,of inflammation and fuppuration, as lhall produce an union between that coat, and the albuginea teftis. This is indeed the only rational end which can, by any of thefe means, be purfued: for the diforder being abfolutely local, and the tunica vaginahs (the feat of it) moft com- monly fomewhat altered from its natural ftate, by having been diftended; unlefs the abforbent veflels can again be reftored to a capacity of doing their duty, (a circumflance -which does not very often happen) the arte- ries will continue to exhale new ferum into the cavity, and the hydrocele will ftill remain, orON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 315 or be renewed in a fhort time after each dif- charge. To obtain this end, two kinds of means are propofed; in the ufe of one, it is intended, by means of a fmall wound, to excite fuch a degree of inflammation, as fliall occafion, or be followed by a total and abfolute cohefion of the tunica vaginalis with the tunica albu- ginea: in the other, a larger and more fte^ incifion is made; whereby the cavity of the former of thefe coats is converted into a hol- low or open fore, or ulcer, to be filled up by a new incarnation ; or elfe, a part of the faid tunic being cut away, its power of again holding the extravafated fluid is equally pre- vented. The firft, or union of the two coats in con- fequence of inflammation, has fometimes been found to follow the ufe of fuch means as were intended to procure only a temporary relief: it fometimes follows the Ample punc- ture with the trocar, or lancet; the ancient method of letting out the water, by a fmall incifion, frequently produced it''; and the feton. This vyas by making, firft an incifion of fome length, through the fcrotum and dartos, fo as to lay the tunica vagi- nalis bar?, and then by making a punfture in the latter. The accounts3^^ A TREATISE 7 « relinquo feton, the tent, and the cannula, though ufed for another purpofe, or at leafl for other rea- fons, were found to be followed by it fo often, that they foon were ranked among the means for obtaining a radical cure ^ They accounts given by Brunus and Theodoric, are the fame as that of all the writers befoi'e them, and have been copied by many fiflce : *' Curatio ejus eft, ut incidatur cutis tefticulorum feftione *' ampla fecundum longitudinem ejus; dein perfora, et aquam extrahe." Many of the old writers* have left us direflions for palling the feton, and for introducing the tent, either of lint or fponge, and the cannula, either of alder, or of filver, Gulielmus e Saliceto, having firft propofed the ufe of exter- nal applications, fays, " Si hac via non confumitur aqua, tunc perfora burfam, cum phlebotomo tuo acuto, Sc extrahe aquam, non fubito totam, fed partem; & pone in foramina *' illo tentam lineam, vel lluppeam, aut fpongiam; ut poffes *' de die in diem aquam extrahere: & nota, quod hujufmodi " asgritudo multoties recidivat; & fi fic, femper redeas ad *' perforationem antedidtam: & via ifta, et modo, perfedle *• curabitur." Fabritius ab Aquapendente fpeaks of the tent as frequently ufed by him in the mixed cafe of hydrocele and farcocele, or difeafed tefticle; though by the account he gives of his fuc- cefs it is pretty clear that he ufed it in the hydrocele only, o^ when the tefticle was not really difeafed. His words are, " Si ** camofa firaul & aquofa fit hernia, ego talem adhibeo curam. Seco cutem, & incifionem facio exiguam, & in loco po- " tius altiqri, quam in fundo; inde, turunda Impofita cum *' digeftivo, & pus movcnte medicamento procedo, neque, un- " quam totum pus extraho, fed perpetuo bonam partem intusON THE HYDROCELE, SzC* ^^7 They were indeed, (as I have ah'eady ob- ferved) originally defigned to difcharge the water reUnquo, quod fenfim carnem corrodat, & ita fanat." An adhefion of the vaginal coat with the albuginea, may be the conlequencc of fuch treatment of an hydrocele, and confequently fuch patient may obtain a radical cure; but whoever has feen any thing of the difeafe properly called a farcocele, will know, that it will very feldom bear fuch rough treatment. This method of procuring a firm cure (by the tent) is men- tioned by Ruyfch: " Sanari quidem valet idmali pertufo fcroto, " ope inftrumenti touchart difl;o, vel lanceola phlebotomica, ut " aqua vulnere exeat, fed cito plerumque recrudefcit malum'. " Si autem curatlonem aggrederis aperiendo fcrotum a parte " fuperiori ad latus,, tumque vulmis turunda oblonga linguento " rofaceo, mercurio precipitato rubro inunfto oppleveris, *' donee lenis inflammatio, eique fuccedens fuppuratio parva,, *' membranulas ftillantes putrefecerit, tuncque eas tenaculo ** eduxeris," &c. Profefibr Monro, of Edinburgh, has propofed a method of cure upon the fame principle; but much better, and more likely to procure the one thing aimed at, (the lenis inflammatio) as he employs no catheretic medicines. His words are, Confidering how readily contiguous inflamed parts grow to- *' gether; and how many inflances there are, of people hav- *.* ing a radical cure made of this hydrocele, by inflamma- /• tions coming on the part; it vvpuld feem no unreafonable " pradlice, to endeavour a concretion of the two coats of the tellicle, when tihey are brought contiguous, after letting out *' the water through the cannula of a trocar, by artfully raifmg " a fufficient degree of inflammation. " This to be fure muft be done cautioufly, and fp that the *' furgeon can reafonably exped to be mafter of the inflamma- tion; and therefore the application of all irritating medi- " cines.A TREATISE water gradually; and to continue fuch a drain from the parts where it had been colleded, as ** ernes, the operation of which he could not Imme^ately ** Hop, or any fingle mechanical eiFort, the efFedl of which he " could not be fure of> are not to be employed. " Suppofe the cannula of the trocar was to be left in; by *' the extremity of it rubbing againft the tefticle, an inflamma- *' tion might be artfully raifed; the caufe of which might be ** taken away as foon as the furgeon thought fit," &c. Medical Essays. This method, with fome fmall alteration, I have once or twice ufed with fuccefs. Being afraid of the pain which might be caufed by the extremity of the cannula rubbing againft the tu- nica albuginea, and the irritation in confequence thereof, I have left it in, but with a piece of bougie (whofe length exceeded that of the qannula about, a quarter or an eighth of an inch) within it. Of all the methods of ufmg a tent, I think this is the beft, as the cannula fecures its paffage into- the cavity of the vaginal coat; which the collapfing of that tunic, and the 'loofe texture of the dartos, would otlierwife render fomewhat difficult. But although I have once or twice fucceeded in this manner, I have much oftener been fruftrated: fometimes it .has proved abfolutely ineffeftual; and at others, I have feen it raife fuch a difturbance, as to render it neceffary to lay the whole cavity open before a cure could be obtained. Of all the methods of obtaining a radical cure of an hydro- cele, by exciting inflammation within the turiica vaginalis, and thereby obtaining an adhefion between it and the albuginea, that by the feton is by much the beft; it is the leaft painful, the moft eaftly managed, excites the leaft troublefome fymptoms, and is the moft frequently fuccefsful; but, as I fhall have occa- fion to fpeak of this hereafter, I fliall defer faj-ing any more cojicerning it in this place. I mightON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 31^ might prevent any of the ill confequences ap- prehended from the removal of the local dif- order: but the inflammation, which fuper- vened fometimes, producing a cohefion of the facculus to the furface of the tefticle, what was originally calculated for a palliative re- medy only, was by many adopted for a radi- cal one. If the event, and confequence flowing from tliefe means, were as much in our power, as they have been faid to be; that is, if we could with any tolerable precifion or certainty deter- mine the degree of inflammation to be excited, and the effe^l of fuch inflammation on the vaginal coat, there would be no doubt of the utihty of them; but this is far from being the cafe: for although it fometimes is fufficient for the purpofe wiftied for, and rifes no higher than jufl: to a degree equal to that purpofe, yet it alfo frequently happens, that either fuch degree and extent of it is not excited, or it rifes much higher, and proves much more painful and fatiguing, than was promifed or intended; or (what I have feveral times feen) after a great deal of pain and confinement, a partial cohefion only has been the confequence, and the difeafe has flill remained, notwith- ftanding-3^0 A TREATISE ftanding all the patient's and our trouble* Sometimes the pain, inflammation, and fymp- tomatic fever are but little; but on the other hand, they are all three fometimes fo great as to become alarming, at leafl: to a patient who has been taught to expeft a cure upon much more eafy terms. The whole fcrotum fome- times becomes exceffively inflamed, and after a good deal of pain and trouble, large deep floughs are produced, and the procefs becomesi as irkfome as any of thofe, whofe event, (with regard to a cure) is much more certain, ; If the inflammation be but flight; the pain, and tumefadlion, moderate; the fymptomatic fever light; the fuppuration fmall; and art tiniverfal coheiion of the two membranes is produced; the event is very fortunate, and a very troublefome complaint; is thereby got rid ©f, upon very eafy terms. If the event proves what ! have mentioned in the fecond place; that is^ . if either the inflammation be confined to the dartos, where it fometimes produces fev€ral fuperficial abfceflfes (of no confequence toward the cure of the difeafe;) or if it has been fo partial, as only to have occafioned the cohefion between the tunics of fmall compafs, the cavity will not by this means be abohfhed, nor6n the hydrocele, &C. 221 rior any thing like a radical cure be obtained; confequently the patient will have undergone all the fatigue, confinement, or pain, (be it more or lefs) for nothing. But if the inflam- mation rifes high, if the fcrotum fwells con-' liderably, and large deep floughs are formed (as fometimes happens) the fymptoms, and the hazard, Ar6 then fully equal to what at- tend thofe more certain rriethods. Which of the three will be the event, no man can fay. Under the fame external appearances, different people are more or lefs liable to in- flammation, and fever. The confinement of matter, in confequence of too fm^all an open- ing, will in fome habits make flrange havock, in a very fhort time; and if a large opening and a plentiful fuppuration muft at laft be fubmitted to, the method by a large incifiou at fir ft is preferable, as the cure is more cer- tain, and the lofs of time lefs. Different cir- cumftances in the patient will render one method preferable to, and more likely to fuc- ceed than another; but whenever a cure is attempted by any of the before-mentioned means, the uncertainty of the event fhould be made known, and the patient be apprifed of Vol. II. Y what3.^2 A TREATISE what may happen, either with regard to trou- ble or difappointment. All the methods hitherto taken notice of, are calculated to produce a perfeft, or radical cure, without making a large wound, or bear- ing the appearance of a chirurgical operation thofe of which I am now to fpeak, are in- tended for the fame purpofe; but by mak- ing a large and free opening into the bag containing the fluid, to render the accom- phfliment of fuch purpofe more certain. Thefe are called the cure by caujiic, and the cure by incifion. The cure by cauftic is calculated to fpare the terror which a cuttinsc inftrurrient always conveysand, (as the pa- trons of it fay) to avoid the painful fymp- toms, and hazard, which frequently attend a large incifion in thefe parts. The method is this: a piece of the common pafte cauftic,. rather lefs than a finger's breadth, properly fecured by plafter, is applied the whole length of the anterior part of the tumor, which will neceffarily make an efchar of proportional fize.. When this efchar either cafts ofi~, or is di- vided, an opening of nearly the fame length and breadth is thereby intended to be made toON THE HYDROCELE, &C. into the cavity of the tunica vaginaHs teftis : by which means an opportunity is given to the fiirgeon to apply fuch dreffings to the in- fide of the faid tunid, as fliall, by the genera- tion of new flefh, fill up, and abolifh its ca- vity. The preference which fome practiti- oners have given to this method before that by incifion, has been upon a fuppofition that a circumftance which very feldom happens, will moft frequently occur; I mean, the pe- netration of the cauftic thous^h the vaginal tunicj containing the fluid. By this they hope to avoid the'fymptoms which are fuppofed to be generally excited by the divifion of the faid bag by a cutting inftru- ment; I will not fay, that the cauftic never does this; but I muft fay, that I have very feldom feen it do fo. If the tumor be very large and full; the containing parts be very much on the ftrefs; and the fkin and dartos very thin; the cauftic may now and then pe- netrate through, to the vaginal coat: but this, whatever may be thought or pretended, very feldom happens; and when it does not, the tunica vaginalis muft be divided in the fame ftate, and manner, as if no cauftic had been applied. All the difference between the two Y 2 methods3-^4 A TREATISE methods (cauftic and incifion) will then amount to this; that in the former, the fkin being mortified, the patient is freed from a part of his apprehenlion at its being cut; and the furgeon, fji.ncying that his efcharotic has gone through the vaginal coat, will divide it," as a part of the efchar: but a more careful ex- amination of what he is about, at the time of fuch operation, would generally convince the latter, that he divides the bag unaltered by the cauftic; and the fymptoms which often at- tend this procefs, confirm it. It has indeed been propofed to divide the efchar made in the Ikin, down to the furface of the tunica vaginalis, and then, by the apphcation of a frefh cauftic, to make an efchar in that coat alfo. But whoever makes, or fubmits to this experiment, will find that of two evils he chufes the greater; and to avoid the pain'of incifion, iiicurs a much greater degree of it by the repetition of the efcharotic. The pain attending the firft application of the cauftic, is indeed to fome perfons but httle; but in many it is fully equal to that of the knife, and muft always be of much longer duration: if it does not penetrate the tunica vaginalis, that . bag muft be divided by a cutting inftinament (asON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 325 '(as I have already faid) in the fame ftate as if no cauftic had been appHed; which incifion is and muft be accompanied with the fame fymp- toms, (in the fame perfon) as in the operation by the knife only. Nor can we at all times confine the cauftic, fo as that it fliall not caiife a much larger fore than is intended, or can be neceflary. Upon the whole, the cure by cauftic, as it fpares the terror and apprehenlion of a bloody operation by the knife, and as it requires no dexterity in the operator, may on thofe two accounts become preferable both to many pa- tients and furgeons ; yet whoever promifes to perform, or experts to receive a radical cure by cauftic, upon much eafier terms than by incifion, will moft frequently be difappointed; that is,' they will frequently find the fever, and inflammatory fymptoms full as high, and the fore full as painful in the one as in the other; and confequently all their care and at- tention to obviate mifchief, full as neceflary. Neither is the acceflary confinement, in gene- ral, at all lefs in the one than in the other. One of the methods made ufe of by the an- cients, to let out the fluid from an hydrocele of the vaginal coat was, (as I have already ob- Y 3 ferved)326 A TREATISE ferved) by making a pretty large divifioii of^ the fcrotum and dartos, and having by that means laid the tunic bare, to make an open- ing into that alfo, and thereby difcharge the contents. This method fometimes produced a perfe£t cure in the firfl inftance, but much more frequently produced only a temporary relief, If the ppening made in the tunica va- ginalis was fmall, and imited again immedi- ately, the bag filled again with water, and the difeafe recurred; but if the orifice, inftead of immediately uniting, became inflamed, or floughy, fuch an adhefion of that coat to the albuginea teftis fometimes followed, as caufed an abolition of the cavity of the former, and > confequently a radical cure. Though this happened now and then, and the cure was really accidental, yet it furnifhed a hint for attempting to obtain the fame end, with a much greater degree of certainty. This was, by dividing or laying open the whole cavity or bag containing the water : and that, fome- times, by a mere fimple divifion of it; fome- times, by the total removal of fome part of it. Paulus T^^gineta, Albucafis, Severinus, and many others of the beft of the ancient writers, r haveON THE HYDROCELE, &c. ^27- Have given a particular account of this operation; and it has at all times been pradlifcd by fome, though it has generally been decried, and dreaded. In what manner, and with what caution it may have been executed, by thofe who had given fo bad an account of it, I know not; but by what I have feen of it, J am very confident that the ills attending it have been much exaggerated; that, under proper cau- tions and reftridlions, it will be found to be praelicable with perfeft fafety; and that it ought by no means to be laid afide. Some writers of very good charader have appeared very averfe to it, and have afcribed to it fuch' fymptomsin general, as are indeed very alarm- ing; but which do not occur, unlefs the oper- ation be performed improperly, or on fubjeas unfit for it. I have pradlifed it very often, and do not remember to have feen any ill ef- feds from it, more than two or three times. I would be very cautious how I advanced any thing in a matter of this kind, which experi- ence would not vhidicate, or by which others might be mifled; but I have fo often made the experiment, and with fuch fuccefs, that I cannot hefitate to affert, that under the ne- ceflfary reftralnts, regarding age, habit, flate Y4 ofA TREATISE of the difeafe, &c. it is a very ufeful operation^ and may be pradifed with great propriety. I may, perhaps, be thought to fpeak better of it than it deferyes: I am not confcious that I do; but I am much incUned to beheve, that they, who appear fo averfe to it, have either praQiifed it on improper fubjeds, and in im- proper circumftances, or, having imbibed a prejudice againft it, have been unneceflarily alarmed at what would not in other cafes have alarmed them; or, that not being fufficiently apprehenfive and attentive, they have ftifFered their patients to get into circumftances of ha-: • zard, which are not juftly chargeable on the operatipn merely, and would not happen un- der more careful management. Advanced age, an apparently bad or cachec-^ tic habit, a difpofition to anafarcous or leucor phlegmatic fwellings, an intemperate life, the cuflom of drinking fpirituous liquors, and any f jch general diforder in the conftitu- tipn as is likely to increafe the fymptomatic fever, which fuch an operation muft necefla- rily produce, are juft objeftions to it: any difeafe of the glai^dular part of the teflicle, its coats or veffels, an old irreducible hernia, a difeafed finite of the urethra, proftrate gland, orON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 329 or neck of the bladder, are (while they Gouti- uue) good reafons for not performing it: but, confideratis conliderandis, in young and heal- thy people, and in a recent ftate of the dif- eafe, this method of obtaining a radical cure is a very good, and a very pra£licable one. The method of performing the operation is as follows : Having appointed an affiftant to grafp the upper part of the tumor, in order to render it tenfe below, a pun<fture fhould be made in the lower and anterior part, through the ikin and vaginal coat. If the operator intends to finifh the incifion with a knife, he Ihould make this pun£lure large enough' to admit the end of his fore-finger; which he fliould introduce imnjediately, before the wa-. ter is all difcharged, and the vaginal coat col- lapfed; and upon that fmger fo introduced, he fhould continue his divifion of the whole length of the bag, and of the fcrotum which covers it. If he intends to ufe the probe-fcif- fors (a more tedious and a more painful me- thod) he may make his firfl pundure with a lancet, and then introduce his fciffors. Upon the firft divifion, the water rufhes out, and the tumor fubfides; if the punflure be made fmall, a part of the flui4 will infinuate itfelf into33^ A TREATISE into the cells of the dartos, and by 'the imme^ diate collapfion of the vaginal coat, the oper^ ator will find fome difficulty in intr ;ducing either his finger or his inftrument into the orifice made in it; if he does not do this, he will divide only the Ikin and dartos, and the patient muft undergo a fecond incifion, for the divifion of the cyfi:; all which inconveni- ence may be avoided, by making the firfl opening large enough for the introduction of the finger; and when that is in, all the reft is, upon that, very eafily executed"*. When the vaginal tunic is divided, and the fluid thereby difcharged, the tefticle, covered only by its tmnca. albuginea, comes into view; and if the incifion was either begun, or febnti- nued very low, it generally thrufts itfelf out '•^ Some prasTtitioners, terrified at the accounts which they have received of the operation, and yet being defirous of pro- ducing a radical cure in this manner, have thought that they might leiTen the hazard, by reducing the fize of the incifion; and therefore make a very fmall one: but whoever depends upon this, will find himfelf miftaken. An incifion made one fourth of the length of the fac will be attended with all the trouble and hazard, which follow one of two thirds; with this additional inconvenience, that the former will very often prove inefFeftual at lall. fromON THE HYDROCELE, &G. ^^j from the wound. This Ihould be gently re- placed; and if the vaginal coat is not much thickened by having been long diftended, no- thing more need be done, than to lay a fmall quantity of fine lint * into its cavity ; and then covering the .wound with a large pledget and ^ foft bolfler, tie the fcrotum up in a fufpen- fory bag. This operation, if properly per- formed, may be executed in a very few fe- conds : it requires no other violence, than the rnere divifion of the parts; and if this divi- fion be made with a knife, rather than fcilTbrs, it will require much lefs time, and caufe much lefs pain. The membranous ftrufture of the parts on •yvhich this wound is inflided; their continu- ation from the peritoneum ; and the great irri- tability of fome of thofe which are neceffarily laid bare, and put under a neceffity of receiv- ing dreffings, muft occafion pain, and fymp- tomatic fever : this it is the bufuiefs of art to moderate and relieve; phlebotomy, lenient aperitives, febrifuges, and opiates, will there- ' By no means to fill, or diftend it, or to make any preflure on the tefticle; whofe tunica albuginea is very irritable, as >yell as acutely fenfible. fore33^ A TREATISE fore become neceffaiy. But in this cafe, as in many others, it will generally be found much more eafy to prevent bad fymptoms, than to remove them, when they have been permitted to attain a confiderable height. The operation is, or ought to be, confined to the young and the healthy, in whom inflamma- tory fymptoms are moft likely to occur; but (I believe I may venture to fay) to whom we have more efficacious remedies to apply in fuch diforders, than can be ufed to people of a different habit, and in different circum- ftances. The general induration of all the parts about, the thick tumid lips of the incifion, and the general inflammatory enlargement of the fcro- tum, have for the firfl: four or five days a dif- agreeable appearancej and may, if negle<Sled or mif-treated, prove very trpublefome or even hazardous; and the kind of difcharge, which during that time is made (a thin difco- , loured gleet) feems very unequal to the re- dudlion of ib much tumefaftion; but when the febrile fymptoms are appeafed, and a kindly fuppuration begun, let the furgeon have patience, and not by an over-officioufnefs, or by improper dreflings, interrupt Nature I inON THE HYDROCELE, &c. .^'^j in what fhe is about; let him, by warm fo- mentations, keep the parts clean and perfpir- able; let him drefs the wound with a fmall quantity of foft, eafy, digeftive applications; and covering the whole fcrotum ^ with a foft, warm poultice, fufpend it in a proper bag; and he will, in general, foon fee a favourable change in all the appearances : he will fee the inflammation difappear, the tumor refolve, and all the tumefaftion in due time fubfide. But if he negleds thefe general cautions, and, under a notion of affifting digeftion, goes to work with precipitate, and other irritating dreffings, the face of things will not be fo agreeable; the tumor will not fubfide, and he will continue, or rather create, a painful, un- digefted fore, with all its confequences; but, for which, he only is accountable In ^ f The impalpable farina femlnis Hnl, put into boiling water, with a proper quantity of ung. fambuc. frefh butter, or lard, is , the eafieft made, and is the neateft, fofteft, fmootheft, and moft relaxmg application of the kind; has nothing ofFenfive in its fla- vour; nor is it, like moft other cataplafms, likely to excite a herpes. g The great hardnefs which almofl always attends inflamma- tions of thefe parts, has (1 fuppofe) been the reafon, why fo many writers have advifed, and fo many practitioners ftiU ufe luch applications, as (though really efcharotics) are called dif- folvers of induration, and removers of obftruftion. I would334 A TREATISE In about fix weeks, the fcrotum is generally reduced to nearly its natural fize; and when the t would be very cautious, how I made objeclion to what fo many have recommended; and, in a matter of mere fpeculalion, would rather doubt my own judgment!, than that of fome others: but this is a fad, of which I have too often been co'nvinced, to be miftaken; and, therefore, I cannot help frying, that it appears to me, that all applications of this kind, even the mildeft of them, (the red precipitate) are generally very improperly ufed; that they give unneceffary pain; and retard, what they are ufed with defign to expedite.- Inflammatory hardnefs and tumefadlion is not peculiar to the fcrotum, upon its being wounded: it is common to all parts of fimilar ftrufture; that is, the adipofe and cellular membrane all over the body. When fuch parts are irritated by a large wound,- they cannot refift a fudden influx; the confequence of which muft, for a time, be obftruftion, induration, and fwelling: but, one moment's re- fieftion on the natural ftrufture and ftate of thefe parts, before fuch wound was inflifted, or fuch irritation excited, will prove that eafe, relaxation, and free fuppuration, muft be the intentions proper to be purfued; and that every application, which either ftimulates, gives pain, or corrodes, muft pervert and counteraa: fuch intentions. The breafts of women, the axilla of both fexes, the parts fur- rounding the inteftinum reftum, the cellular membrane in the pe- rinxum, under the integuments of the penis, and in feveral other parts of the body, are liable to this Icind of alteraition, when in- jured; but this induration is very unlike to a glandular one, and requires very different treatment. In the latter, a deftruclion of parts isfometimes neceffary, and efcharotic medicines may there- fore be required: but in the former, mere relaxation is all that is v/antecT: whatever gives -eafe, and appcafes the inflammatory lenfion.ON THE HYDROCELE, &c. the wound is quite healed, the cicatrix is a mere Hne, correfpondent to the original inci- fion; tenfion, will beft produce matter, arid anfvver the purpofe whith ought to be aimed at. The moft convincing proof of the truth of this dodrlne, may be drawn from that cafe, which, of all thofe which affed this kind of membrane, is generally the moll troublefome; I mean the ff- tula in perinso. In thefe the induration and enlargements of the parts is fometimes fo great, as to be very alarming; hard, cal- lous excrefcences} deep and long finufes, with fmall orifices; con- ftant pain and irritation, from the lodgment of matter and urine ; a fymptomatic fever of the heflic kind; and a difficulty either of retaining the urine within, or expelling it from the bladder, make a part of the moft frequent charadteriftics of this difeafe: and yety even thefe cafes, terrible as they are, do frequently admit relief- and are fometimes even cured, without any deftrudlion of parts,' or the ufe of any one efcharotic apj^ication: a free divifion of ali the hollow and hard parts; the application of foft, eafy digeftives, and of a warm, relaxing poultice; a total abftinence from all fuch external remedies, as corrode or irritate; and aU fuch internal ones, as under the title of deobftruents, increafe the velocity of the circulation, and wafte the patient's ftrength, by watching, purging, andfweating; and an eafy and gradual diftention ofth^ urethra, by a fimple bougie; wilT, In fome inftances (indeed, m all, where any good can be done at all) remove moft of thefe difagreeable circumftances and appearances: in which cafes, a kmdly fuppuration will be afforded by all the divided parts; a flond, well-conditioned incarnation will be the confe quence; the cicatrix will be Hnall, foft, and moveable, and very unhke to what muft follow from the ufe of catheretic appli- cations. thJ>'-"r"^/.S^^^ral importance; than n . fuppofed to be: the fymptomatic fevers, which'ar. eitlierA TREATISE 33^ {ion; which is a circumftance of more cohfe- qiience to the patient, than is imagined; efpe- cially cither produced or maintained By the injudicious application of painful dreffings, are much more frequent than they are thought to be: not to mention the lofs of time which they muft always caufe, and the very difagreeable deformities they often occalion. The furgery of moft of our forefathers was coarfe and rough; and many of the praftitioners affedled a kind of brutal, unfeel- ing ruftlclty. The old maxim, " Dolor medicina doloris," was fo generally received, that the furgeon almoft forgot his pa- tient's fenfation; and the common people thought they were ne- glefted, if they were not tortured. Lord Bacon's moft excellent advice, " inveniendum quid natura ferat aut faciat," was but half remembered; they tried very fufficiently what Nature would bear, but very feldom had patience to know what Ihe could do. Under a miftaken notion of going to the bottom of wounds and abfceffes, and of diflblving indurations, they crammed and dif- tended the cavities, and corroded and irritated their fides, till a train of bad fymptoms were often excited, wliich the original difeafe had no lhare in the produftion of, That this is no exaggeration, let their works teftify; and that fomething of this kind is ftill too much in ufe, is too well known. All dreflings are in fadl extraneous bodies; and when they either conliil of fuch materials as give pain, and excite irritation,or are crammed in with injudicious violence, they are foreign bodies, with other mifchievous qualities annexed. Where deftrudion of parts is necefiary, the fooner it is executed the better, and the necelfary pain muft be complied with ; but in the application of dreflings to the infide of abfcelTes, to hollows made by the re- moval of difeafed parts, to large fores attended with hardnefs and inflammation of the common membrane: in ftiort, wherever mere fuppuration is required, they cannot be too light, foft, and eafy: all that we have to do, is not to obftrudl Nature in the exe- cutionON THE HYDROCELE, &;c. daily if he be obliged to get his bread by labour. If the tunica vaginalis, containing the wafer, by long or frequent diftention, or from any other caufe, is become thick and hard, and cannot therefore contrad itfelf, or be con- traded, upon the evacuation of the fluid; it will contribute confiderably to the thicknefs of the lips of the wound, as well as to their hardnefs, pain, and difficulty of digeftion. Li this cafe, the beft way is to remove a part of it, on each fide, at the time of the operation. The cellular ftrudure of the dartos eafily ad- mits this to be done; and when thefe fides are thus taken away, the lips of the wound confift only of the common integuments. A knife will do this with much more eafe and expe- cutlon of thofe offices, to which fhe is generally fully equal; in which we can lend her no affiftance beyond removing impedi- mehts out of her way. In the particular cafe of the divided tu- nica vaginalis; that degree of thicknefs and hardnefs, which it fometimes acquires by long diftention, is urged as a reafon for the ufe of cauftic applications: but this is a method of r.afonin^ to which I cannot agree, having often experienced the contrary! That membrane, like all others of the exanguious kind, is diffi- cult and flow of digeftion. efpecially if altered bydifeafe; but that It will in time become floughy, digeft, and yield a kindly fup- puration and incarnation, by the mere ufe of fimdie, eafy apnli cations and without thatof any efcharotic (noteven the red pre- cipitate) I have often and often experienced Z ditioa338 A TREATISE dition than any other inftrument whatever. The method propofed by the late Mr. Dou- glafs, of doing it by repeated fnips of the probe-fciflbrs, is operofe, unhandy, and unne- ceffarily painful and tedious: nor is the cut- ting away an oval piece of the fcrotum, as ad- vifed by that gentleman and fome others, at all neceffary: on the contrary, the more loofe that part of the fcrotum is, which is to cover the tefticle, (now deprived of its vaginal coat) the better; as it will be more capable of cor- rugation. With thefe cautions, and under the proper reftriaions already mentioned, this method of obtaining a radical cure is very prafticable. That it is fometimes accompanied by trouble- fome fymptoms, is beyond all doubt; and fo is the method by cauftic. I cannot fay, that I have never feen it prove fatal; nor can that be faid of any operation of confequence. Much depends on the choice of a proper fubjed, and the obfervance of the neceflary means and cautions; without which, both this, and the ufe of the cauftic, will always be troublefomc, and fometimes hazardous. Before I finilh the account of this method of cure, 1 would take the liberty of mention- mgON THE HYDROCELE, &c. ^^^p itig one circumftance more, which appears to me to be of eonfeqnence. When the quantity of fluid is large, and the fcrotiim and tunic much on the ftretchj 1 think it is better to difcharge the water by mere pundlure; and hot to perform the operation for the radical cure, lintii a frefh accumulation has arain mo- deratelj diftended it. The inflammation ne- ceflarily confequent upon the divifion of thefe parts, juft after they have been fo much on the ftretch, and fo fuddenly let loofe, may be, (and I think I might fky^ that I have feen it prove) produdlive of worfe fymptoms, and a higher degree of fever and tlimefaaion, than ufually occurs, when the fame parts are di- vided in a lefs diftended flate^ . This method of obtaining a radical cure by incifion, of which I have given the faireft and moft impartial account in my power, muft always be confidered as a matter of choice, and never can be an operation of neceffity;, that is, they who are affliaed with the dif- eafe, for whofe cure it is calculated, will al- ways have it in their power to be temporai^ily relieved by the palliative means, or may make trial of any of the above-mentioned lefs cer^ tain attempts, without incurring any, or a Z 2 ver^340 A TREATISE very fmall degree of hazard. Now as this method can never be faid to be totally and ab- folutely void of fome danger; as it bears the appearance of an operation of fome feverity ; and as it muft always be voluntarily and deli- berately fubmitted to, without any real ne- ceffity from the circumftances of the difeafe; in other words, as it muft be chofen by the patient, merely to avoid the trouble and in- conveniences attending the diforder, and not neceffarily applied to, as fome other oper- ations are, to fave or preferve life, it does not often happen that we are called upon to pradife it ^. The ^ The method of cure of the hydrocele by inclfion, which Mr. Pott has here fo fully defcribed, he did not perform during the laft zo years of his life, on the contrary, in every converfa- tion, public and private, reprefented it as a fevere and unnecef- fary operation; during which time it has not been performed at St. Bartholomew's hofpital; before that period it was the ufual .praftice. As this difeafe has of late been the fubjeft of fo much difqui- fition, and fo many improvements have taken place in the treat- , ment of it, I had entertained hopes that the operations by inci- fion and excifion, would have been wholly laid afide, as I muft confefs they always appeared to me, painful In the execution, 'and produftive of great and dangerous inflammation, often caufmg a fever which put the life of the patient in confiderablp hazard. Mr. CheiTelden, who wa« by no means a timid oper- ator,-ON THE HYDROCELE, &c. 34I. The number of people labouring under this difeafe, and who come within the above-men- tioned neceflary reftraints, from age, habit, manner of living, date of the complaint, thicknefs of fac, &c. &c. &c. is great. And that of thofe, who either have an infuperable dread of an operation, or are fo circumftanced or connefted in life, as to make any fuch de- gree of danger highly improper to be volun- tarily incurred, is flill greater: fo that by far the majority of thofe who are affliaed with the diforder, are obliged (however irkfome it may be, or however difagreeable it may prove to them) to carry it through their life, feeking relief now and then from the palhative re- medy of tapping. This renders it, to the ac- tive and to the laborious, a complaint of more confequence than is generally imagined. From thefe confiderations, I have often been induced to think ferioufly on the fubjed, and to make many experiments; the refult of which, when likely to prove at all ufeful to fnankind, or creditable to the art of fur- ator, fpeaking of the cure of the hydrocele by incifion, fays, " This .1 have done, and feen done feveral times, but never " thouglit the cure worth the trouble and pain the patient un- derwent.'' p 2^ 3 gcry,TREATISE gery, I fli^ll, always think myfelf obliged tp communicate. "Every prafticable method propofed by the ancients, I have tried; and have found them in general painful, fatiguing, hazardous, or jndfficacious. The tent, whether of lint or fponge, is fubjed to great objeftions, both in its firft ap? plication, and its future neceflary continuance. The cellular ftruaure of the dartos, and the loofe GonneSion between the Ikin and tunica vadnaiis, renders its introduction (unlefs a cannula be ufed) fornetimes .difficult. When in, great care-muft be taken to keep it there for feme time, or the effeft intended (an in- flammation of the vaginal coat and albuginea) cannot be obtained; and the means made ufe of for its diftention, as well as the nature of the tent itfelf (efpecially if made of fponge) prove frequently very fatiguing, not to fay mifchievous, by the irritation and the necef- fary confinement of the matter. And, after all, I have feveral times feen it produce only a partial cohefion; and that fo fmall an one, as to prove jip pure at all, nor at all prevent the future accumulation of water, or the neceflity of frequent tapping. Thq©N THE HYDE^OCELE, &C. 34^ The cannula, when ufed for the fajne purpofe inftead of a i;ent, is indeed eafily introduced ; and when in, does not confine the matted: but then its hardnefs, inflexibility, and thin edge, and the abfolute impoffibility of dired- ing or managing it in the frequent and necef- fary motions of the patient, though confined to his bed, render it a very unpleafant and troublefome guefl within the tunica vaginalis; and if, to avoid this inconvenience, a piece of bougie be kept within it, this, while it is there, confines what ought to be difcharged. The point to be aimed at is, to excite fuch a degree of inflammation, both in the tunica vaginalis and tunica albuginea, as fhall occa-? fion a general and perfect cohefion between them : and this, if poffible, without the pror dudion of flough or abfcefs; without the hazard of gangrene, and without that degree of fymptomatic fever which now and then attends both the cauftic and the incifion; and which, when it does happen, is fo alarming both to patient and furgeon, Thefe ends I have frequently obtained, by the ufe of a feton. It is a method of cure mentioned by Aquapendens, as ufed by Guide, and others before him; (though their procefs Z 4 was344 A TREATISE ^ was fomewhat different from mine). I have feveral times tried it on fubjeds of very dif- ferent ages, feme of them more than fifty years old. It requires confinement to bed only for a few days ; after which, the patient may lay on a couch to the end of the attend- ance ; which is generally finifhed in about three weeks, or a rnonth at the fartheft: and, during all that time, no other procefs or regi- men is neceflary, than wh^t an inflammation of the fame part from any other caufe (for example, a hernia humoralis) would require. But for a more particular account of this I muft refer the reader to the tra£l on this fub- jed, which he will find at the end of the prefent. SECT. IX. THE HEMATOCELE, OR TUMOR fROM BLOOD. This is a fwelling of thefcrotum, or of the fpermatic procefs, proceeding from, or caufed \)y blood; and, though fpoken of by writers; ^51ON THE HYDROCELE, &C. t ^45 as one fimple difeafe, is liable to fo confiderable variety, both with regard to nature and fituar tion, as to admit, or even require, being di- vided into feveral kinds. Such diftin£lion of the different kinds of hasmatocele, though not ufuallj made, is ab- folutely neceflarj toward rightly underftand- ing the difeafe; the general idea or conception of which, appears to me to be fomewhat erro- neous, and to have produced a prognoftic which is ill-founded, and hafty. According to my conception and experience in this mat- ter, the difeafe, properly called hasmatocele, is of four kinds; two of which have their feat within the tunica vaginalis teftis; one within the albuginea; and the fourth in the tunica communis, or common cellular membrane, inverting the fpermatic yeffelSf In pafling an inftrument, in order to let out the water from an hydrocele of the vagi- nal coat, a veffel is fpmetimes wounded: which is of fuch fize, as to tinge the fluid pretty deeply at the time of its running out; the orifice becoming clofe, when the water is all difcharged, and a plafler being applied, the blood ceafes to flow from thence, but infinu- ates itfelf partly into the cavity of the vaginal co^t,« 34^ A TREATISE coat, and partly into the cells of the dartos; making, fometimes, jn the fpace of a few- hours, a tumor nearly equal in fize to the original hydrocele. This is one fpecies. It fometimes happens, in tapping an hydro- cele, that although the fluid difcharged by that operation be perfe£i:ly clear and limpid, yet, in a very fhort fpace of time, (|fometimes in a few hours) the fcrotum becomes as large as it was before, and palpably as full of a fluid. If a new punfture be now made, the difcharge inftead of being limpid (as before) is now either pure blood, or very bloody. This is another fpecies: but, like the preceding, con- jBned to the tunica vaginalis. The whole vafcular compages of the tefti- cle is fometimes very much enlarged, and at the fame time rendered fo lax and loofe, that the tumor produced thereby has, to the fingers of an examiner, very much the appearance of a fwelling compofed of a paer-e fluid, fup- pofed to be fomewhat thick or vifcid. This, is in fome meafure a deception; but not totally fo: the greater part of the tumefadlion is canfe(^ by the loofened texture of the teflis; but there is very frequently a quantity of ex- travafated blood alfo. IfON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 347 If this be fuppofed to be an hydrocele, and pierced, the difcharge will be mere bloody This is a third kind of haematocele ; and very 4ifferent, in all its circumftances, from the two preceding: the fluid is flied from the yeflels of the glandular part of the tefticle, and contained within the tunica albuginea. The fourth confifts in a rupture of, and an .effufion of blood from, a branch of the fper^ matic vein, in its paflage from the groin to the tefticle. In which cafe, the extrayafation is made into the tunica communis, or cellular membrane invefting the fpermatic veffels. Each of thefe four, I have feen fo diftind- ly, and perfectly, that I have not the fmalleft doubt concerning their exigence, and of their difference from each other. The tunica vaginalis teftis, in a natural and healthy ftate, is a membrane, which, although firm, is of no great thicknefs; it is white, or rather of a reddifh white colour; and its blood- vefTels are (in a healthy flate) no more appa- rent to the eye, than are thofe of the ^(\nica albuginea: but when it has been long or much diftended, it thereby becomes thick, and tough; and the veflels (efpecially thofe of its inner furface) are fometimes fo large^34^ A TREATISE! , as to be very vifible, and even varicous. If one of thefe lies in the way of the inftrument,, wherewith the palhative cure is performed, it is fometimes wounded: in which cafe, as I have already obferved, the firft part of the fenim which is difcharged, is pretty deeply tinsred with blood. Upon the collapfion of the membranes, and of the empty bag, this kind of haemorrhage generally ceafes, and nothing rnore comes of it. But it fometimes happens, either from the toughnefs of the tunic, or from the vari- cous ftate of the veffel, that the wound (efpe- cially if made by a lancet) does not immedi- ately unite ; but continues to difcharge blood into the cavity of the faid tunic, thereby pro- ducing a new tumor, and a frefli neceffity of operation. This is what I have taken the liberty to call the firft fpecies of hasmatocele, and plainly and evidently cpnfifts in a wound of a veffel of the vaginal tunic. Upon the fudden difcharge of the fluid, from the bacr of an over-ftretched hvdrocele, and thereby removing all counter-preffure ag-ainfl: the fides of the veflels, fome of which are become varicous, one of them will, fome- times.ON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 349 times, without having been wounded, burft. If the quantity of blood fhed from the veffel fo bur ft be fmall, it is foon abforbed again, and, creating no trouble, the thing is not known But if the quantity be confiderable, it, like the preceding, occafions a new tumor, and calls for a repetition of the operation. This I call the fecond fpecies : which, like the firft, belongs entirely to the vaginal coat, and has no concern either with the tefticle, or with the fpermatic veffels. In both, the bag which was full of water, becomes in a Ihort fpace of time diftended with blood; which blood, if not carried off by abforption, muft be difcharged by opening the containing cyft: but in neither of thefe can caftration (though faid to be the only remedy) be ever * From this caufe it very often happens, that the laft run- ning (if I may ufe the phrafe) of the water'from an hydrocele, is bloody (all the former part having been perfedlly clear); and from hence it is, that a bloody difcharge may almoft al- ways be produced upon the fame occafion, by preffing and handling the fcrotum. They, who would fee a very ingenious account of this kind of hxmatocele, and a very probable appli- cation of the fame principle, for the folution of fome other ap- pearances in difcafes, may find it in the Edinburgh ElTays from profeffor Monro, the father. neceffarv: •J35^ A TREATISfe neceflary ! the mere divifion of the facc utus '% aiid the application of dry lint to its infide, will, in general, if not always, reftrain the haemorrhage, and anfwer every purpofe, for which fo fevere a remedy has been prefcribed^ The other two are indeed ©f more confe- quence; they intereft either the tefticle itfelf, or the veflels by which it is fupplied with blood, and retider^d capable of executing its ^ It may indeed happen, that the blood of the patient may be in fuch ftate, as to be incapable of coagulation : in which cafe, the haemorrhage will continue from the infide of the fac, al- though it be laid open; and alfo from all the divided parts. This circumftance, though a very hazardous one, cannot ba * forefeen; nor do I know, in this ftate of the juices, what bene- fit can arife from the removal of the tefticle: for the haemor- rhage will certainly be continued, from all parts of the wound necelTary in fuch operation, upon the fame principle, and for the fame reafon that it could not be reftrained from the in- fide of the fac. Such an indifpofition of blood is often, in cachedlic habits, the caufe of very troublefome and fatal hemorrhages, at fome diftance of time from amputation, as well as immediately. If this want of an agglutinant quality in the blood is not correded, or is not capable of correftion, it generally goes hard with the patient, let the operation be what or where it may: for it is not merely the fuppreffion pf the bleeding that is required; the fame ill quality of blood will prevent fuppuration, produce bloody, fanious gleeting, gangrene and mortification. This is an evil, of which every praSitioner muft have feen fo many inftances, that it is need- lefs to produce particular ones, office;ON THE ilYDROCELE, &c. 351 office; and are fometimes not curable, but by removal of the part. One of thefe is feated within the tunica al- buginea of the tefticle; the other in the tunica communis of its veffels: they are neither of them very frequent; but when they do hap- pen, they call for all our. attention. If blood be extravafated within the tunica albuginea, or proper coat of the tefticle, in confequence of a great relaxation, and (as it were) diffolution of part of the vafcular com- pages of that gland; and the quantity be confi- derable, it will afford or produce a fluduation, to the hand of an examiner, very like to that of an hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis; allow- * ing fomething for the different denfity of the different fluids, and the greater depth of the former from the furface. If this be miftaken for a fimple hydrocele, and an opening be made, the discharge will be blood; not fluid, or very thin; not hke to blood circulating through its proper Veflels; but dark, and dulky in colour, and nearly of the confidence of thin chocolate (like to what is moft frequently found in the imperforate vagina.) The quantity difcharged will be much fmaller than was expelled from the fize25^ A TREATISE fizeof the tumor; which fize will not be con- liderably diminiflied. When this fmall quan- tity of blood has been fo drawn off, the tefti- cle will, upon examination, be found to be much larger than it ought to be; as well as much more loofe and flabby; inftead of that rdundnefs and refinance arilingfrom an healthy ftate of the gland, within its firm ftrong coat i it is foft, and capable of being comprefled almoft flat, and that generally without any of that pain and uneafinefs, which always attend the compreflion of a found tefticle. If the bleeding ceafes upon the withdrawing the cannula (fuppofing a trocar to have been ufed) and the pun(^iure clofes, a frefh accumulation of the fame kind of fluid is foon made, and the fame degree of tumefailion is produced, as before the operation: if the orifice does not clofe, the haemorrhage continues, and very foon becomes alarming. In the two preceding fpecies, the blood •comes from the tunica vaginalis, the teflis it- felf being fafe, and unconcerned; and the re- medy is found, by opening the cavity of the faid tunic : but in this, the hemorrhage comes from the fubftance of the tefticle; from the convolutions of the fp^rmatic artery, within theON TriE HYDROCELE, &C. the tunica albuo-inea: the divilioii of the vaei- iial coat can here do no good; and an incifion made into the albuginfea can only increafe the mifchief: the tefticle is fpoiled, or rendered ufelefsi by that kind of alteration made in it^ previous to the extravafation; and caftration is the only cure, which a patient in fuch cir* cumftances can depend upon; The lafl fpecies of this difeafe arifes from a burning of a branch of the fpermatic vein, between the groin and fcrotum, in what is generally known by the name of the fpertna- tic procefs. This, which is generally pro* duced by great of fudden exertions of ftrength^ feats of agihty^ Sec. may happen to perfons in the beft health, whdfe blood and juices are in the beft order, and whofe genital parts are free from blemifh or difeafe. The efFufion, or extravafation, is made into the cellular membrane, which invefts and en- velopes the fpermatic veffels, and has fome- thing the appearance of a true hernia. When the cafe is clear, and the extravafated blood does not give way to difcutient applications, the only remedy is to ky the tumor fairly open, through its whole length. If the veflel or breach be fmall, the haemorrhage may Vol, II. A a reftrained■554- A TREATISE retrained by mere compreffion with dry lint^ or by the ufe of ftyptics; but if it be large^ and thefe means do not fucceed, the ligature muft be made ufe of. If the bleeding branch can be tied fnigly, the tefticle may be pre- ferved; if it cannot, and the whole fpermatic procefs mufl be included, it is unneceffary to add,, that the tefticle muft be remov ed. CASE XXV. A HEALTHY man, about thirty years old, ^efired me to let out the water from an hy- drocele; which operation, he faid, had, for fome time paft, been performed upon him, twice a year, by the late Mr. Bell, of Red- lion-fquare; and he defired alfo, that I would do it with a lancet. I let out near a pint, the £rft part of which was deeply tinged with blood; but as it ran, it became clearer and clearer, and at laft was perfedly limpid; and when I put on the plafter, he did not bleed a arop. The next morning, he came, to me ?gain told me that he had bled a good deal in the night; and fliewed me his linen, which, was very bloody. As there was. no difcharge at this time, I only renewed his plafter, put himbN THE HYDROCELE, &c. him a bag-trufs on, and defired that he would go home, and keep qiiiet; He remained free from hemorrhage for fome hours, and there- fore negleaing my laft caution, he walked about a good deal^ and heated himfelf, and th^ next day fent for me to.look at his fcrotum,. which was large, and full. Making no doubt^. from all the cireumflances, that the tumefac- tion was from blood, I told him my opinion; and at the fanle time advifed, if it did not dif- fipate by proper attempts for that pui-pofe, to fubmit tp have the vaginal coat laid open, and thereby obtain a radical cure. . Sopae time was fpent in attempting dif- fciuilion; .during which the tumor increafed, and he now and then bled pretty freely from i;he orificej which became fpongy^ and would not heal. Finding all endeavours ineffeaual, he fub-. mitted: the tunica vaginalis was laid open; 3 confiderable quantity of blood was difeharged (fome in a iiuid -ftate, but principally grum- ms;) he had no difagreeable fymptoms; afid^ in about fix weeks, was perfeaLy^^el^j ' h2.lL CASKA TREATISE CASE XXVI. ■ An elderly man, who had often had a large hydrocele tapped at the hofpital, came one day, as ufual: I made a purifture with a lan- cet, and let but the water j but was near half^ an hour before I could ftop an haemorrhage from the wound. The next day he came again, and complained to one of my dreflers, that he had bled, more or lefs, all the night. He was properly dreffed; the bleeding retrained ; and he was advifed to, go home, and keep quiet upon the bed. The third day, when I was again at the hofpital, he came and fhewed me his fcrotum;' which was as full, and as large, as when I firft tapped it: the orifice was not healedand upon preffure, blood was difcharged from it. He feid, that he could not afford to reft from his labour; and my week for accidents being expired, Mr. Crane took him under his care. " He (finding the bloody difcharge ftill conti- nued, iwtwithftanding the man kept in bed, and was properly taken care of) made a free ijicifion into the fumor; turned out a good deal of coagulated blood with his finger; and then, lightly filling the cavity with lint, ob- tainedON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 357 tained a luppreffion of the hasmorrhao-e, and produced a radical cure. CASE XXVII. A GENTLEMAN who ufed to comc to Lon- don about every five or fix months, to have a large hydrocele emptied, came to me under a great alarm. Having often had the water drawn off by pundlure in London, he determined to let the apothecary of the village where he. lived do it for him, and thereby lave him the trouble of a journey. The operation was very properly performed, and the bag perfedly emptied: but the next morning, to his great aftonifhment, he found it as full as before. His apothecary was as much furprifed as himfelf; and the pa- tient got into a poft-chaife, and came immcr diately to London. Upon hearing this account, and feeing and feeling the tumor, I made no fcruple of de- claring it to be bloody; and that if it did not foon difiipate by reft, and proper applications, it muft certainly be let out. All attempts for difperfion proved fruitlefs, the tumor incrcafed, and as his health and ha- .Aa^ bitS5^ A TREATISE bit. were good, and his age by no means ad-, vanced, I advifed him to fubmit to an inci- fion; by which I hoped that he would not only get rid of the prefent evil, but would mod probably obtain a radical cure. He complied, upon condition that I would firrt by pundure fatisfy him, that I was right in my conjedure with regard to the contents. - -1 pafled a lancet into the fore-part, and gave difcharge to a clear blood: while that was running out, I made, by means of a prober pointed knife, an incifion of fufficient fize, to admit a doffil or two of fine lint. For a day br two, the fymptoms were untowardly, and the difcharge was large, and bloody; but by proper care, keeping very quiet, and taking freely of the bark with elixir vitrioli, every thing ended well. CASE XXVIII. - A LUSTY healthy man, about forty, who had the care of a manufacturer's Warehoufe in my neighbourhood, confulted me on account of a large hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis. The tumor was very large, the parts confider- ably on the ftretch, and I advifed him to have ;t tapped diredlly, ■' ■ AboutON THE HYDROCELE, &C. About twenty ouDces of clear water were 4rawn off by means of a trocar, without the appearance of a drop of blood. As he had car- ried his burthen long, and had never been rcf^ lieved from it before,; he was much furprifed at this imrriediate eafe, and went'to work as ibon as he got home. The next morning he came to me much alarmed, and (hewed me his fcrotum ; which was full half as big as before the punct Lire had hctii made. 1 had no doubt that its prefent content was blood; - and was very apprehen- five that it inight require the fame treatment as the preceding cafe; v/hich, in his conftitu- t-ion, and manner of living, muft have been attended with hazard. I ordered him home to bed immediately; took fome blood from his arm, and directed a cooling purge to be taken the next morning: the fcrotum was fufpended, and wrapped in a rag folded feven or eight times, and wetted iii a folution of fal. ammon. crud. in vinegar and water, and he had diredlion to keep it coti- ftantly wet. On the third day I bled him again, and ordered hir^ another purge for the fourth, and continued the fame application. Finding the fwelling quite at "a flaud, and A a 4 " imagining^00 A. TREATISE imagining that by mending his ftate of blood, a farther effiifionmight poffibly be prevented, and ah: opportunity given for the abforption of what was ah'eady Ihed, I advifed him to take a dram tif the-cortex every fix hours: this he did for as many days; during which, the tumor vifi- bly lefl'ened: and, by perfifting in the f^me method, he got weU: that is, all that degree of tumefadion, which 1 fuppofe to have been caufed by blood, difappeared. After forne months the fcrotum became large again; and> he followed the advice which I had given hinij viz. to have the fluid drawn off, before it at- tained too large a fize. I have feveral times fince tapped it, and always have drawn off a clear fluid, C * a ' S E XXIX. '-"^A man, about forty-feven, of a fallow com^* plexion, and f\ibje£t to colicky complaints, had the water drawn off from a hydrocele of t*he vaginal coat, by means of a fmall trocar.' The quantity was bear'a pint, and the bag' was perfedly emptied. The next morning it'Teemed to contain a'fluid, although in no- great quantity: he fhewed it to the perfon whd tapped him the day -before, and who advifed ^ hirr^ON THE HYDROCELE, &c, 361 bi'm to put on a bag-trufs, and to take a fmart purge. In three days it was fo manifeftly in- ereafed, as to alarm the patient, aiid make him defirous of farther advice. On the iixth day from the firfl: operation, I faw him, and found the fcrotum fo much ea^ larged, that I made no doubt the vaginal tunic contained at lead feven ounces, which I fufped:ed to be blood. I advifed a difcutient application, and the free ufe of the cortex; but this did not fuit the humour, either of, the patient or of his fur- geon. He took three or four purges of rad. jallap, and made ufe of a warm fomentation. At the end of about a month, I was defired to fee him again. The tumor was larger, and his flrength impaired by his purging. It ap- peared to me to be now of luch a fize, and in fuch ftate, that nothing but the operation could ferve him; and for which I prepared him, if the pundure fhould produce a dis- charge of blood only. An opening was made with a lancet, and the difcharge wa§ clear fluid blood : I would have proceeded, but the, patient would not permit me: and he was drefled with a Superficial pledget, and a plallero Bloodj6Z', '---l^ '.'^A TREATISE Blood oozed from the orifice all that night, mid part of the next day; and when 1 faw iiim again, he could not have loft lefs than a pint. ^ I was well aware, what might be the con- feqnence of a divifion of the tunica vaginalis, in fuch a habit; but, at the fame time, it itemed to be the unicum remedium, for he would take no medicine, The hemorrhage continuing another day, he fubmitted. The operation difcovered no one bleeding veflel; libr did I imagine that it would, being con- vmced that it came from the infide of the tunic. He was dreffed with dry lint, and put to bed with an opiate: all that night, and the fccceeding day, the difcharge was large and bloody: and the lips of the incifion, on the fetond, were flabby and free from inflamma- fery tumefaaion. I told him my opinion freely, and. preffed him to take the bark, or have more alTiftance; both which, at that time, he refufed to do. On the clofe of the third day, the hicmor-'' fhage ftill continuing, he becoming fick and faint, and his pulfe failing a httle, he was, farmed, and permitted us to direa for him. A drau2;ht, confining of a dram of bark, half a drampN THE HYDROCELE, &G. j5| a dram of confed. cardiac, and three or four •drops of tindt. thebaic, was ordered to be taken every four hours. Not to make the account tedious, t>y a rela- tion of every minute circumftance, heperfifted in this method, and it was four days before, the bleeding ceafed, or the edges of the inci-r fion became inflamed, or (hewed any tendency toward the fuppuration. But at Jaft, wit^- fome difficulty, he got Well. . -r- . CASE XXX. A LABOURING man, who had fallen dow^ in the ftreet, with a load on hjs back, was brought into St. Bartholomew's'hofpital, on a fufpicion of his having got a rupture, in con- sequence of his fall; he having immediately perceived a Iwelhng .in his groin andfcrotum, which he had not before. ' ^ The tumor feemed to occupy the,whole fpermatic procefs; which was fo enlarged by it, that it was impoffible to feel the paiTage of it from the abdomen, through .the mufcle: tut the tefticle below it was .perfeilly dillind. The appearance of a tumor, the fuddennefs of its formation, the diffindl fituation of the 4 teflicle3.64' A TREATISE tefticle below, and an accidental circumftance, of. the man's not having had a ftool for two days paft, inclined Mr. Freke (whofe week it was-) to believe it to be, and to treat it as, a rupture. He made fome attempts for reduc- tion ; and, finding them fruitlefs, determined upon the operation immediately. ' 'He-divided the {kin and membrana a;dipofa, down to' what he took to be the heriiial fac; and when he had fo done, had a mind to en- deavour at the return of the Inteftine, with- out opening the fac. ]\lr. Freke was a, man not eafily to be dif- fuaded from what he had a mind to do: and, havino-'^ot the whim into his head, was de- ^ ° • .jijHMf;.. ■ . : , • '''''-111*'' termined to make the experiment on tJiis, wbich'he'thought a fair cafe for the purpofe. Accordiii^Iy (withliii' probe-fciffors) he di- vided the tendinous dpehihg in the' abdomi- nal mufcle; and then again tried to reduce the- gut, bat to no'purpofe; for nothing would go up. At laft, though with much reluaance, he^ was obliged-to lay open the containing- membrane. He had no fooner done this, than •a large quantity of blood ^ partly fluid, and partly grumous, burft forth, and the whole tumor fubfided; leaving the procefs pcrfeaiy free.;ON TH£! HYDROCELE, &:C. free; and containing neither inteftine nor' omentum. ' ^ '? ■^.^ The parts were now wafhed clean, and diJ^ ligent fearch made for the breach whence thi^ blood iffued; but none could be found.: the man was dreffed with lint and piilv. boli ar-i men. (a method of dreffmg, which Mr. Freke was fond of) and, in a proper fpace of time, the man get well without any new hcemor-^ rhage. In this cafe, fome of the circumftances, might be faid to render an internal hernia, not improbable; and the want of ftools might have-increafed fuch probability: but then, it> fhould have been ccnfidered, that although,- this be one fymptom of the ftrangulated intef-^ tine, yet it is not, by any means, an univocal, -or infallible one. A want of ftools may hap- pen from other caufes, even in a perfon who has a rupture, but cannot fingly be a re.afon for the operation immediately; which ought to be indicated and authorifed by other conco- mitant fymptoms and appearances. A coffive habit may attend a perfon, who has an intef- tinal hernia, when the gut labours under nq ftriaure, and does its office perfedlly Well ia the fcrotum; but fuch patient will not have theA TREATISE the fymptoms cif an incarcerated intefilndl nor indeed had this man; His npt having bcQn at ftool two days beforej was an acci- dental circumftiance; which might or tiiight not have been occafioned by the defcent of a piece of the inteftinal canal: the truth of which fhould have been proved by the ufe of a glyfter and a purge, before an operation had been performed* CASE xxxi. A YOUN G fellow draining to get rid of a hard (lool, felt a fudden pain in his left groin; and Upon examination, found a fwelling, extending from thence into the fcrotum* He took it for a rAipture, and immediately applied to an adver- tiiing operator; who, after feveral unfucceff? ful attempts to reduce it, put a trufs on him | and told him, that the tumor would gradu- ally flirink to nothing. The trufs he worei for fome days; when, finding both his pain and fwelling increafe, he applied to a furgeon in his own neighbourhood; with whom I faw him .. fhe tumor was large, and had fomewhat the feel of an omental hernia; tlie abdominal aperture"ON THE. HYDROCELE^ &C. 367 aperture feemed to be dilated by it; the tefti- cle was tolerably diftind below; his pain in an ered pofture was confiderable; but in a fupine one, very little: he had neither heat, nor quicknefs of pulfe, nor hiccough, nor vomit-r ing: and had been thrice at ftool that day. As there was no reafon for fuppofing any degree of ftridure on the inteftinal canal, I advifed the keeping him in bed, bleeding him freely, and trying what a proper poultice would do. This method was tried, for feveral days 1 tut without any benefit: on the contrary, the pain increafed, as well as the tumor; and a fluduatipn within became palpable. Thi-s fluid I thought. pofhbly might coUeaed in the fac of an omental hernia (3 cafe which I had more than once feen) and as there was plainly enough in quantity to renr der a pundurc perfcdly fafe, we made om with a lancet, and let out fome ounces of cleaj: blood. When the,, fwelling was thereby lefl'ened, we felt for the fpermatic veflels, but couid difcern them very indiflindly; and the procefs feemed much loaded and enlarged. Next36S A TREAtlS^ Next day the man was perfeflly well iri health; but the fcfotum looked fwelled, and black, as if it had been much bruifed: he had srtfo bled from the pun(Sture, which was not clofed, and difcharged blood freely, upon any preffure being made above. Though we were in fome doubt concerning the true nature of the cafe; yet it was ekar^ that if the haemorrhage continued, the part illuft be laid open* For three or four days it continued, not- ^ithftanding all our endeavours; and at lafl it wa« fo confiderable^ as to indicate the oper- ation immediately. A knife was introduced into the orifice made by the lancet, and an incifion of fome length made; but no facculus, no particular cavity found; nothing like a hernial f^c, 01* tunica vaginalis teftis;'in Ihort, nothing but cellular membrane; which fatisfied us, that the blood muft come from the fpefmatic chord. As the bleeding ftill continued, and was de- rived from a part above our incifion, we con- tinued it quite up to the groin, and found that all the cellular membrane of the procefs was loaded with extravafated blood; and that it cameON THE HYDKOCELE, &Ci 369 Came from a confiderable breach now in view. We dreffed it with lint preffed out from a ftypticj ^nd. intended to haye permitted that dreffing, to have remained on for a day or two: but we were foon fent for on account of an alarming return of tKe haemorrhage; which had been fo confiderable, as to produce a fwooni . , . Caftration appeared .to Us to be the only re- medy; and it was immediately performed* CASE xxxii. A MIDDLE-AGED man Came to St. Bartho- iomew's hofpital, and defired me to look at a fweiling in his groin: and upper part of the fcrotum on the right fide; which, he faid, came fuddenly^ by lifting a heavy weight. From the groin quite down to the tefticle the fpermatic procefs was enlarged; he had no fymptoms. of a liefnia; and the teftis was much too diftina and free for a hydrocele. While I was examinhigit, I perceived fothe blood to drop from the lower partofthe fwelli ing; and, upon inquiring the reafpn, he told me that a puncture had been made in-it, a day or two before, upon a fuppofitioii that the Vol. II, B b fweilingri'-O A TREAtlSS dwelling was from water; that it had at in- tervals bled ever fince; but that, fince it had lafl: ftopped, the tumor was increafed. From thefe circumftances-, 1 CDiiduded the fwelling to be c'aufed by blood, fhed into the tunica communis,, from a branch of a varioofe fper-- matic vein. He fubmitted to have it laid open : no par- ticular breach was difcovered; though the. whole membrajie was much loaded: the wound was dreffed with lint preyed out from fpirit. vin. Thefe dreffmgs were fuf- fered to remain on,, until they were fepa- rated by a beginning fuppuration: and by keeping quiet, and being properly taken care of, the man got well,., without any return of h'.^morrhage. CASE XXXIII. A POOR man. was brought to my houfe^ by a crentleman of the profeffion, for my opinion concerning a tumor of the fcrotum. The fwelling wa^ large; of a globular kind of form; painful,, not only in general from ' its weight, but often even when fufpended, or when the patient was in bed. It palpably containedOK THE Hydrocele, &c» ^^^i tontained a fluid ; but the fluctuation of that fluid was not (to my fingers) like the fludlu- ation of water. In all the polterior part of the tumor^ an enlarged^ and fomewhat hard- ened tefticle might plainly be diftinguifhed s and the general weight of the whole, far ex- ceeded that of any hydrocele I had ever met with of equal fize. That it was not a mere Ample hydrocele I was very clear: but, whe-^ ther it was a colledlion of fluid in the tunica vaginalis of a difeaffed tefticle (what is in ge- neral called a hydro-farcocele) or what other morbid or altered ftate of parts it might be owing to, I would not pretehd to fay. A punflure was made in it with a fmall trocar; and about four ounces of dark-coloured blood, not fo fluid as blood generally is while circu- lating in its proper veflels, was drawn off; a bit of plafter and lint was applied to the ori- fice, and the man went about his bufinefs. In two days the fame furgeon brought the man to me again. The puncture was healed; but the tumor was as large as when I had feen it two days before, and palpably con- tained the fame kind of fluid. What that was we knew: ancl the confideration was, vv'hat was the propercfi: method of giving the maa Bb 2 jelief.372 A TREATISE relief. Had he been in good health, I beUeve, I fliould have advifed laying the tunaor open ; at leaft fo far as to have obtained a more pre- cife knowledge of its nature: but the patient's acfe and general health were fuch as would by, no means make an operation of that fort an eligible thing. He was near to fixty; afth- matic; had drank freely, and had a yellow countenance, and fwelled legs in confequence of it. I advifed him to come into the hofpi- tal, and try, whether by proper care his habit might not be mended. Soon after his admif? fion, I had a mind to fee, whether the con- tents of the tumor were really the fame as be- fore, and made a pundlure in it again with the trocar; the difcharge was again blood; and it was two days from this operation, before a bloody difcharge from the orifice ceafed. K continuance of dram-driiiking brought on a general anafarca, and an extravafation of water in the abdomen; and when he had been in the hofpital about two months, he died. I would not omit the opportunity of exa- mining his fcrotal diforder ; and found, that the trocar had, at each operation, pierced the tunica albuginea; that the bloody extravafa- tion was within that coat; that the tunica vaginalisON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 37^ vaginalis was almoft univerfally, though fiightly, adherent to- the furface of the albii- ginea; that the vafcular compages of the AVhole tefticle was much enlarged, and at the lame time fo loofened, that a part feemed to have been diffolved into the fluid which pro- duced the fluifluation, which fluid was mere blood ; and that the epididymis was hardened, and very conhderably enlarged. !■ have flnce had an opportunity of feeing a patient labouring under the fame complaint; whole tefticle was rather haftily, and inad- vertently laid open ; that is, divided. The immediate confequence was a large and ob- ftinate haemorrhage. Whether it was pro- duced by the divifion of the fubftance of the tefticle, or by the irritation of fuch applica- tions as wer^ made ufe of for flopping the bleeding, I will not pretend to fay : but v/hen I faw him, he had a rigid neck; and was what is commonly called jaw-locked. Caf- . tration, from the ftate in which his tefticle was when I faw it, muft have been the only remedy for his local complaint; but his fpaf- modic attack rendered that improper, and every thing elfe fruitlefs. I have alfo (from a very ingenious pradi- B b 3 tioner374 A TREATISE tioiier of my acquaintance) received an ac- count of a iimilar cafe ; in which the tefticle was divided, and the haemorrhage (from the patient*s obftinate refufal to fubmit to th& operation of caftration) proved at lait fatal. SECT. X. To the different kinds of hydrocele, which have ah'eady been mentioned, fome of the modern French writers have added another,, viz. that which is formed by a colledion of £uid in the fac of a true hernia. The title of this clearly defcribes its true nature ; and therefore I fhall only inform the reader of what has fallen within my awn l^nowledge relative to this difeafe. CASE XXXIV. A YOUNG fellow, about twenty-five years old, applied to me on account of a fwelling in -his fcrotum. It was large, of an irregular figure, not very tenfe, perfedlly indolent, and accompauidON THE HYDROCELE, &C. Accompanied with a remarkable fiilnefs of the ipermatic procefs. The account which he gave of himfelf was, that he had had a rupture as long as he could remember : that he had, on that account, worn a fteeltrufs for many years ; that, upon taking his trufs off, his rupture always came down immediately, and was very eafily re- turned up again ; that it had never occafioned any obftruftion in his ftools, nor given him any pain ; that about a year ago he had been perfuaded to leave his trufs off, and to fubfti- tute in its place, a bandage made of dimity, without any iron in it; but which had been buckled on very tight: that, when he had worn this bandage about fix months, he found that his rupture was down, and that he could not get it up again.; that, upon this, he had applied to the perfon of whom he bought the bandage ; who, after he had ineffeftuajly tried to reduce the rupture, fold him another bandage, and buckling it on ftill tighter than the firff, affured him, that it would never do him any harm; that from the time of putting on this fecond, his fcrotum had gradually be- come larger, with confiderable pain and un- eaiinefs. B b 4 FromJ7^ A TREATISE From the feel of all the lower part, I made no doubt that the tumor contained a confider' able quantity of fluid; and had there been no other circumftance to influence my judg- ment, I fhould have fuppofed the difeafe to have been a hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis teftis; but the very diftindl and particular ac- count which the man gave of himfelf, and the feel and the appearance of the fpermatic procefs, made me hefltate. Whatever might be the true nature of the cafe, a fluid there certainly was ; and that in quantity fufficient to render the difcharge of it both fafe and warrantable. I made a punc- ture in the middle and anterior part, and let out above a pint of brown ferum. This dif- charge removed all the fweliing fromhelow; but made little or no alteration, either in the look or the feel of the upper part of the pro- cefs, I endeavoured to reduce it; but found it impraaicable, and defifted; advifing ti>e •jnan to let it alone, to wear no bandage of ^ any kind; and if at any future time it be- came troublefonie to him, 1 defired that I might fee it, a-In about a year's time, he came to me again, with his fcrotum as big as before, and palpably contai^iing a fluid.ON THE HYDROCELE, &C. • ^77 As I had felt the tefticle very plainly after the firft operation, and as I did not believe the tumor in the procefs to be formed by the in- teftine, I advifed him to have the whole laid open. He fubmitted, and I took him into the hofpital for that purpofe. I made an incifion, from the middle and anterior part of the fcro- tiim,, quite up to the groin, and found in the lower part of the bag, which contained the fluid, the tefticle covered only by its proper coat, or tunica albuginea; and in the upper part, or neck of the fame bag, a confiderable portion ,of omentum. The upper part of this portion of caul was hardened in its texture, and fo perfeftly adherent to every point of the .jieck of the fac, as to prohibit the return of .even, a fluid from thence into the belly: but .the lower part was in its natural flate, loofe, foft, and capable of being expanded. All the }ower or loofe part.I cut off, without making a ligature, or being troubled with auyhj^mor- rhage; the upper part I left as I found it ; filled the wound lightly with dry lint, and treated the cafe as 1 fhould have done that of the radical cure for an hydrocele. In about feven weeks the man got well, and has ever (ince remained fo. This37^ A TREATISE This man's rupture was of the congenial kind; and therefore the fac of the hernia, and that of the hydrocele, were the fame, vi2}. the tunica vaginahs teftis. CASE XXXV. While the firft edition of this book was in the prefs, Mr. Spray defired me to vifit a pa- tient with him, who had fome preffing fymp- toms of a ftrangulated rupture. The patient was a healthy young man, about twenty-twcr years old, and he gave the following account of himfelf: Th^t as long as he could remember, he Kad been fubje£l to a rupture, which never came lower than his groin ; was always eafily put up, and had never given him any trouble: that he had, when a child, worn a trufs; but, either from its being ill-made, or from, his not knowing how to put it on, it had never an- fwered the purpofe; and that he had for fome years, difufed it: that, for a month or two paft, his rupture had been conflantly down ; ,znd that, witliin that fpace of time, he had jicver been able to return it, though he had pftea tried ; that Ml a?, it gave him no pain, norON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 3^9 nor produced any other inconvenience than the mere fweiiing of the- fcrotum, he had takeu no notice of it, nor applied to any body for affiftance, until within the laft three days ; lince which, he had been afFeded with great pain in his belly, a ftoppage of flools, and a vomiting. The lower part of the fcrotum was much enlarged; contained a confiderable quantity of fluid; and bore very much the appearance of a hydrocele; but the upper part, or fpermatic procefs, was hard, and painful, and feemedto ~.he girt tight by the tendon of the abdominal mufcle. This, added to an extreme tightnefs of his belly, want of ftool for three days pa% anxiety, reftleffiiefs, vomiting, and beginning hiccough, determined me to propofe the oper-, ation immediately. The lad confented, and I made an inclfion from the upper part of the tumor, juft above the abdominal opening, quite down to the bottom of the fcrotum. Having carefully divided the cutis and com- mon membrane, I came to what appeared to be a hernial fac; this I opened, and thereby let out about half a pint of clear hmpid wa^ ter; upon the difcharge of which the whole tumorA TREATISE tumor of the fcrotum fubfided; and my aflifl:- ants were convinced, that I had miftaken a hydrocele for a hernia. But although the whole of the fwelling of the fcrotum was en- tirely diffipated by the difcharge, yet the tu- mor and hardnefs about the abdominal open- ing was unaltered, and the patient's pain the fame. With a probe-pointed knife I laid open the whole fac^ whence the water had pro- ceeded, quite down to its bottom ; and found the naked tefticle within it: this gave the difeafe ftill more the appearance of a hydro-. cele, and I began to think that it was fo;. but,' upon paffing my finger up, to examine the ftate of the abdominal tendon, I found afmall portion of inteftine engaged in it, and' bound extremely tight; I lengthened 'the inciiion, fo as to have a fair view of it, and thereby we" all became thoroughly fatisfied of the true nature of the cafe. The piece of inteftine was fmall, a good deal darkened in colourj and bound fo tightly by the tendon, that" it was with great difficulty that T could intro- duce my finger "fof the conveyance of the knife. When .1 had made a fufficient diktat' tion, I endeavoured to return rthc gut; but could - not execute it, although there was no "V'V. obftrudlioaON THE HYEKROCELE, &c. ^S-f obftrutSlion from the tendon. I- drew out fome inches of it, thinking that I might thereby be enabled to make the return more ealily: that which 1 drew out, I replaced with the utmoft eafe; but could not difengage the fmali portion which made the original difeafe. At laft, pafling my finger round in the dilated opening, I found that the inteftine adhered to the lower border of it, by afmall membranous filament ;. upon the diviiion of which the gut flipped in immediately. The young man had flools very foon; and, by proper care, very foon got'well. This alfo was a congenial hernia; the fac which contained the inteftine, - the fluid, and the teflicle, being the tunica vaginalis : but had I been contented with merely dividing the tunic, and had not proceeded in the exa- mination and divifion of the abdominal ten- don, the lad would have been deftroyed by the ftrifture. SECT XI. The refl: of the falfe hernias'(as they are called) are the pneumatocele, the varicocele, theA TRfiATtSE tH8 dlrfocete, and the farcocele; to which> tomt have added the hydro-fafcocele. The firft of thefe is (as I have ah-eady faid) S miftake: there is no hernia produced by nliere wind. The two difeafes, which, in new-born children, and infants, are taken for^ and called wind-ruptures, are, a tumor pro- duced by a fmall quantity of fluid remaining in the lower pdrt of the tunica vaginalis, after its communication abbve with the cavity of the belly is clofed; and a true (but fmall) inteftinal hernia. The varicocele is a dilatation of the blood- veflels of the fcrotum. Thefe are of differ- ieht fize, in different people; and, like the- Veffels in other parts of the body, are liable to become varicofe; but are feldom fo much en- larged as to be troublefome, unlefs fuch en- largement is the confequence of a difeafe, ei* ther of the teflicle, or of the fpermatic chord. When this is the Cafe, the original difeafe is what engares our attention, and not this fim- pie efFeft of it; and therefore, confidered ab- jftraftedly, the varicocele is a difeafe of no importance. The cirfocele is a varicofe diftcntion and enlargement of the fpermatic vein; and, whe- 4 therON THE HYDROCELE, &c. 58J ther conlldered on account of the pain which it fometimes occafions, or on account of a wafting of the tefticle, which now and then follows it, may triilj be called a difeafe. It is frequently miftaken for a defcent of a fmall portion of omentum. The uheafmefs which it occafions is a dull kind of pain in the back, generally relieved by fufpenfion of the fcro- tum. It has been refembled to a colle<Slion of earth-worms; but whoever has an idea of a varicofe veflel, will not ftand in need of an illuftration by comparifon. It is moft fre- quently confined to that .part of the fpermatic procefs which is below the opening in the abdominal tendon; and the veffels generally become rather larger, as they approach nearer to the teftis. In books are to be found pre.- fcriptions for leffening the diftended veins; but I cannot fay that I ever faw any good €fFe£l from external appHcations of any kind. I|i general, the tefticle is perfedly uncon- cerned in and affeded by this difeafe; but fometimes it happens, that it makes its ap^ pearance very fuddenly, and with acute pain; requiring reft and eafe: and fometimes, after fuch fymptoms have been l emoved, I have feenA tREATtSE feen the tefticle fo wafted, as hardly to he difcerna.ble. Case xxxvi. A YOUNG fellow^ on a journey, found hirri* felf one evening, more than ordinarily tired; andj as foon as he got to bed, was feized with a violent pain in his back; which (to ufe his own words) ftiot down into his ftone* The pain was fo great, as. to oblige him to fend for fomebody immediately, who bled him freely: this produced no relief, nor vvas the pain yet attended with any tumor of the fcro* tum,. or tefticle; or by any appearance what- ever of the parts .afFeded. The pain conti- nued, without remiflion, all the next day: he was again let blood, had a glyfter, and a gentle purge. On the third day, toward evening, the pain totally left him, and a ful* -iiefs appeared in. the groin, tending dov\'n to- iward the tefticle: this made liim fo uneaiy, th-atj ■ finding the apothecary, who had the care of him, did not feem clearly to knpvy what.it was, he .got into a poft-chaife, andi ..came home to London. IllsON THE HYI>ROCELE, &C. 385 His journey brought on a return of pain: but by lofing fome more blood, keeping in bed, applying an emollient poultice to the groin, and fufpending the parts in a bag-trufs, he became eafy, and ail the tumefaction dif- perfed; except a fmall fulnefs of the fper- matic chord, occafioned by the varicofe ftate of its veflels. But the tefticle was fo dimi- niflied, as to be hardly perceptible; and re- mains fo, to the time of my writing this. CASE XXXVII. An oftler, at an inn in Smithfield, was, by the fall of a horfe, thrown over his head, and his groin ftruck again ft the pummel of the faddle. It gave him exquifite pain ; and he was brought immediately to the hofpital, upon a fuppofition that he had burft himfelf. Upon examination, no fwelling appeared, either of the tefticle or of the fpermatic chord; but the pain (which he faid was exquifite) was confined to that part of the latter, which is between the tefticle and the groin. He was largely blooded, had a glyfter, and a purge : his pain continued two days ; and, when it left him, the fpermatic veflels became Vol. II. ■ C c greatlyA TREATISE greatly varicofe. No application, which was ^made ufe of on this account, proved at all be- neficial; that is, rendered the diftended veflels at all lefs ; and, when he left the hofpital, he was perfedly free from pain : but his tefticle, on that fide, was fcarce difcernable, I once faw the fame efFe6t, from the inju- dicious application of a trufs, on a true circo- cele; the veflels, by means of the prefllire, . became enlarged to a prodigious fize, but the tefticle (hrunk to almoft nothing. CASE XXXVIII. A YOUNG gentleman about twenty-five years old, after having heated himfelf much with exercife, went too foon into a riyer to bathe. In the middle of the enfuing night, he was feized with a coldnefs and fhivering; ■which were followed with great heat, and thirft, and a flight fweat. He fent for a fur- geon, who bled him and gave him a glyfl:er, bid him keep in bed, and drink plentifully. Next day, he gave him a laxative medicine, and fome febrifuge draughts, , „ ^; For three days, his fever was Unremitting; but on the fourth he became cooler, and was feizedON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 387 felzed with a moft acute pain in his loins; for which he was again bled and purged. On the fifth day, his back became eafj;. but .both tefticles, though very little fwollen, were fo tender, as hardly to admit the touch ; and, in a very few hours, the fpermatic veffels were fo diflended, as to make an apparent tumor. By means of fomentation, poultice, 'and reft, all uneafinefs was removed in' about a fortnight; but, at the end of that time, both patient and furgeon were exceffively aftonilhed, at not being able to find the tefli- cles. The latter came to London immedi- ately, and defired me to examine him, after having given me the preceding account. The fpermatic veffels were full, and vari- cofe; . tjie vafa deferentia too large, and rather too hard ; as were alfo the epididymes ; but there was not, on either fide, the leaft appear- ance of a natural tefticle : a flattened, com- preffed kind of membranous fubftance (which, I fuppofe, was the tunica albuginea) feemed^ to hang from each epididymis; but there was not any trace or veftige of the glandular qr vafcular parts of either teflis. This is the only time I ever faw this com- plaint on both fides, in the fame fubjed. ...... ''Wa^ . SECT.388 A treatisp: SECT. XII. THE SARCOCELE, OR DISEASED TESTICLE. This is a difeafe of the body of the tefti- cle; and, as the term implies, confifts, in ge- neral, in fuch an alteration, made in the ftrudure of it, as produces a refemblance to a hard flefhy fubftance, inftead of that fine, foft, vafcular texture, of which it is in a na- tural and healthy ftate compofed. The ancient writers have made a great number of diftindions of the different kinds of this difeafe, according to its different ap- pearances, and according to the mildnefs or malignity of the fymptoms, with which it may chance to be attended. Thus, the far- cocele, the hydro-farcocele, the fcirrhus, the cancer, the caro adnata ad teftem, and the caro adnata ad vafa, which are really little more than defcriptions of different ilates and circumftances of the fame difeafe, are reck- oned as fo many different complaints, requir- ing a variety of treatment, and deriving their origin from a variety of different humours Every * " Humores craffi funt duo, pitulta et melancholia, e quibus ' turn fcirrhi in aliis partibiis, turn indurationes earner in " telliculisON THE HYDROCELE, &C. -389 Every fpecies of farcocele conlifts primarily in an enlargement, induration, and obll:ru£lion of the vafcular part of the teflicle; but this alteration is, in different people, attended with fiich a variety of circumftances, as to produce feveral different appearances ; and to occafion the many diftin6tions which have been made. If the body of the teflicle, though enlarged and indurated to fome degree, be perfectly equal in its furface, void of pain, has no ap- pearance of fluid in its tunica vaginalis, and produces very little uneafinefs, except what is occaiioned by its mere weight, it is ufually called a fimple farcocele, or an indolent fcir- rhus. If, at the fame time that the teftis is enlarged and hardened, there be a palpable ac- cumulation of fluid in the vaginal coat, the difeafe has by many been named a hydro-far- cocele. If the lower part of the fpermatic veffels and the epididymis were enlarged, hard, and knotty, they fuppofed it to be a fungous or morbid acretion, and called it the tefticulis oriuntur. Tumor hie eft durus, tadlui renitens, " indolens, et fi exquifitus fit fcirrhus, fenfu caret. Si a me- " lancholia oriatur, color fublividus; fi a pituita, colorem cu- " tis non mutat; fi a melancholia fiiperaffata, dolor pundlo- " rius, et inequalis tumor; hie durus, Ibi mollis." Fab. ab AQUAPjmr'liJT C C 3 C*39*^ A TREATISE caro adnata ad vafa: if the tefticlc itfelf was unequal in its furface, but at the fame time not painful, they diftinguifhed it by the title of Cairo adnata ad teflem : if it was tolerably equal, not very painful, nor frequently fo, but at the fame time hard and large, they gave it the appellation of an occult or benign can- cer : if it was ulcerated, fubjeft to frequent acute pain, to hsemorrhage, &c. it was known by that of a malignant or confirmed cancer. Thefe different appearances, though diftin- guilhed by different titles, are really no more than fo many ftages (as it were) of the fame kind of difeafe : and depend a great deal on feveral accidental circumftances; fuch as age, habit, manner of living, &c. It is true, that many people pafs feveral years with this dif- eafe, under its moft favourable appearances, and without encountering any of its worft; but on the other hand, there are many, who, in a very fhort fpace of time, run through all its ffages. They who are moft converfant with it, know how very convertible its mild^ eft fymptoms are into its moft dreadful ones ; and how very fhort a fpace of time often in- tervenes between the one and the other. There is hardly any difeafe, affeding the humauON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 39I human, body, which is" fubjedl to more variety than this is, both with regard to its firft man- ner of appearance, and the changes which it may undergo. Sometimes the firft appearance is a mere fimple enlargement and induration of the body of the tefticle ; void of pain, without inequa- lity of furface, and producing no uneafinefs, nor inconvenience, except what is occalioned by its mere weight. And fome few people are fo fortunate to have it remain in this ftate for a very coniiderable length of time, without vifible or material: alteration. On the other hand, it fometimes happens, that very foon after its appearance in this mild manner, it fuddenly becomes unequal, and knotty, and is attended with very acute pains, darting up to the loins and back; but ftill re- maining entire, that is, not burfting through the integuments. Sometimes the fury of the difeafe brooks no reftraint; but making its way through all the membranes which enve- lope the tefticle, it either produces a large, foul, ftinking, phagedenic ulcer with ..hard edges; or it thrufts forth a painful gleeting fungus, fubjedl to frequent hiemorrhage.- t C c 4 Sometimes392 A TREATISE Sometimes (as I have already obferved) an accumulation of water is made in the tunica vaginalis, producing that mixed appearance, called the hydro-farcocele. Sometimes there is no fluid at all in the ca- vity of the tunica vaginalis ; but the body of the tefticle itfelf is formed into cells, contain- ing either a turbid kind of water, a bloody fa- iiies, or a purulent, foetid matter. Sometimes the diforder feems to be merely local, that is, confined to the tefticle, not pro- ceeding from a tainted habit, nor accompanied with difeafed vifcera; the patient having all the general appearances and circumftances of health, and deriving his local mifchief from an external injury. At other times, a pallid, leaden countenance, indigeftion, frequent nau- fea, colic pains, fudden purgings, &c. fuffi- ciently indicate a vitiated habit, and difeafed vifcera; which difeafed vifcera may alfo fome- times be difcovered and felt. The progrefs alfo which it makes from the teftis upward, toward the procefs, is very un- certain ; the difeafe occupying the tefticle only, without affefling the fpermatic procefs, in fome fubjeds, for a great length of time; while in others, it totally fpoils the tefticle very foon; andON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 39J and almoft as foon feizes on the fpermatic chords Thefe, and feme other circumftances to be mentioned hereafter, are materially neceliary to be obferved; as they charaderife the difeafe, point out its particular nature and difpofition, and ferve as marks whereon to found our judgment and prognoftic of the moft probable event, as well as the moft proper method of treatment. Various have been the caufes, to which theoretic and whimfical people have affigned this difeafe; but as a recital of con- jedures can convey no inftru6tion, or ufeful information, I fhall pafs them over; and only take notice, that among the great number which have been mentioned, there are two which, though equally groundlefs with the reft, have yet obtained a degree of credit, that may miflead: thefe two are the hernia humor- alis, and the hydrocele of the vaginal tunic. ^ This is the common language, and therefore I ufe it; but I would not be underftood to mean, that the progrefs of the dif- eafe is always and invariably upward, from the teftis into the procefs. I have feen the fpermatic procefs truly cancerous, when the tefticle has been free from difeafe; and am well fatif- fied from experience, that a difeafed ftate of the veffels within the abdomen, or of the parts , in connexion with thofe veffels, may produce a morbid ftate of the procefs, proceeding down- wards from thence; but the other is by much the moft frequent. The394 A 'TREATISE The hernia humoralis is a defluxion of the inflammatory kind, proceeding moft frequently from an irritation'in that part of the urethra, ■where the vafa deferentia, or veficulae femi- nales terminate, it is attended with pain and heat, and moft frequently fever: during the firft, or inflamed ftate of the difeafe, the whole compages of the tefticle is enlarged; but when by reft, evacuation, and proper applications, that inflammation is calmed, there feldom or never remains, either fulnefs, hardnefs, or any other mark of difeafe in the glandular part of the teftis. The epididymis indeed feldom efcapes fo well; that often continues enlarged and indurated for a conliderable fpace of time, but without producing either pain or incon-. venience; and without occafioning any alter- ation in the figure or ftrufture of what is called the body of the tefticle; whereas the true farcocele, or hernia carnofa, moft com- monlybegins by an indolent induration of that part of the teftis, and afFedls the epididy- mis fecondarily; or after it has already fpoiled the vafcular part of the gland. I would not be underftood to mean, that a farcocele never follows a hernia humoralis J ^ I fay moll commonly, becaufe it is neither neccffarily, nor always. thereON THE HYDROCEIsE, &C. there is no reafon in nature why it fhould^nb'tj a hernia humoralis does riot, nor can prevent the tefticle, in any future time, from become ing fcirrhous: I only fay, that it does not, at any time, neceflarily caiife or produce it. So alfo with regard to the epididymis, I do not mean to fay, that it never is the primary and original feat of a fcirrhus ; I know that it is, and fhall produce fome inftanees of it; neither do I intend to fay, that a fcirrhus never at- tacks an epididymis, which has te'en pre- vioufly hardened by a hernia humoralis; there can be no reafon why it fhould not : I only mean to fignify, that it is my opi- nion; that the induration caufed by a ve- nereal hernia humoralis does not, at any time neceflarily produce a fcirrhus. A fcir- rhus indeed may fall on that part, after it has been fo difeafed, but it would as cer- tainly have attacked it, if there had been no preceding affedion of it.' Th ere is alfo a venereal afFe£lion of the tefticle, independent of a gonorrhea, or of any difeafe of the urethra. This is feldom an early fymptom; and I do not remember ever to have feen an inftance in which It was not either immediately preceded, or accompanied, by fome other appearance, plainlyA TREATISE 6 ■ . comes plainly venereal. It has neither the inequality, nor darting pains of the fcirrhus, and always gives way to a mercurial procefs properly con- .du<5ted. .A quantity of water is frequently colleded in the vaginal coat of a truly fcirrhous teftis,. This has given rife to the fuppofition, that the tefticle often becomes difeafed, from its ■being furrounded by, or fwimming in, the fame fluid: a fuppofition entirely groundlefs. That l^cirrhous and cancerous teftes very frequently are found to have a quantity of fluid accumulated in the tunica vaginalis of -them, is beyond all doubt; but that fuch tef- tieles become difeafed, in confequence of being furrounded by fuch fluid, or,, in other words, that a limple hydrocele may produce a fcir- rhous tefticle, is by no means true. The fimple hydrocele is (as I have already at lajge obferved) a colleftion of water in the tunica vaginalis:. this fluid, in a natural and healthy ftate of the parts, is fmall in quantity, and, by being conftantly abforbed, does not diftend the cavity of the tunic but only ferves to keep that membrane from contrading any ijhnatural cohefion with the tunica albuginea. The regular abforption of this fluid being by fome means prevented, the quantity foon be-ON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 35)7 comes confiderable, and diftending its contain- ing bag, conftitutes the difeafe called a hydro- cele ; but makes no morbid alteration in the ftru^lure of the tefticle When the tefticle becomes enlarged in fize, hardened in texture, craggy and unequal in its furface, painful upon or after being handled, attended with irregular pains fhooting up the groin toward the back, and this without any previous inflammation, difeafe, or injury from external violence, it is faid to be affedled with a fcirrhus. This, as I have already remarked, is of different kinds and degrees, and appears under different forms; but although the ap- pearances which the difeafe makes, are various, according to the alteration produced by it in the tefticle, yet, every fuch morbid alteration may obilrudt or prevent the regular abforp- tion of the fluid depofited in the vaginal tunic, and occafion a fpecies of hydrocele; that is, a tumor from water. This is that kind of difeafe, which, by Fa- britius ab Aquapendente, is called hydro-far- <* That is, no fuch alteration as renders it painful, or incapa- We of executing its office; and confequently, no fuch alteratioa as can ever require extirpation or any other chirurgical oper- ation on the tefticle itfelf. cocele;A TREATISE cocele; but which.is fo very unlike toa fimple hydrocele, that whoever miftakes the one for the other, will comniit an error, which may prove very mifchievous to his patient, and very detrimental to himfelf. In the true, fimple hydrocele, the teftis, though fomewhat loofened in its texture, and a little enlarged, yet preferves very nearly its natural form; the colledlion is made without pain or uneafinefs, and very foon becomes fuf- ficient to hide, or conceal the tefticle; nor is the examination of fuch tumor attended with any pain: but the increafed fize, and hardened flate, of the fcirrhous teftis, renders it difcover- able, through a much larger quantity of fluid than will totally conceal the former. When felt, it will be found to be hard, and generally fomewhat unequal, and not unfrequently at- tended with irregular fhooting pains, efpecially after having been examined. In the fimple hydrocele, the fluid diftends the tunica vaginalis fo equally, that, although it does not furround the tefticle, (nor indeed can)" yet it feems fo to do: whereas in the hy- dro-farcoc^le, though the anterior part of the tumor may, in fome meafure, bear the appear- ance of a fimple hydrocele; yet, an examin- ' I ationON THE HYDROCELE, &c. ^99 ation of its pofterior part will always diibover the true nature of the cafe**.: to which m^y be added, that, under the fame apparent magni- tude, the latter will always be found to be confiderably heavier than the former. In Ihort, the name of this fpecies of difeafe (hydro-farcocele) is undoubtedly a very pro- per one, and capable of conveying a very juft idea of its true nature, viz. an accumulation or colledion of water in the vaginal coat of a fcirrhous or difeafed tefticle; but the majority of writers have, by fuppofmg the water to be the caufe, inftead of the confequence, of the difeafed ftate of the teftis, committed a very material blunder, and endeavoured to: eftablifli and authorifea very prejudicial and.deftrudive <= This has been very judicioully remarked by Mr. Le Dran. Schenkius gives an account of a beginning farcocele which was miftaken.for an hydrocele; upon which a radical cure was per- formed by caftration. Upon dividing the body of the teflis, a ing by no means un- common, -but which was here miftaken for femen. The patient died, not long after the wound was. healed; and the kidney on that fide, and the parts about it, made a v^ry morbid appear- ance. This appearance was by Schenkius fuppofed to be bwing to the hafty cure of the hydrocele; but was indeed the efFedt of the fame virus which had firft fpoiled the tefticle. Neither was the fluid in the body of it femen, but fanies or matter; a oircum- ftance moft frequently met with in fcirrhous teftes. method4Q0 A TREATISE methocl of practice. For, by conceiving that the noxious quahty of the fluid produces a fungous or flefliy excrefcence on the furface of the tefticle, they have fuppofed, that after havino- difcharged the faid fluid from its con- taining bag, they could, either by eftabUlhing a fuppuration, or by ufing efcharotic medicines, wafte or deftroy the faid excrefcence, and ob- tain a radical cure of the whole difeafe. Now the fcirrhofity of the tefticle being the origi- nal difeafe, and the extravafation a mere acci- dent, fuch treatment can never do. any mate- rial good, and may often be the caufe of very elTential evil. Fabritius ab Aquapendente has given a par- ticular defcription of this method, which he recommends, from having pradlifed it with fuccefs: his words are, " Modus fingularis eft *' quando hernia aquofa cum carnofa mifta " eft; tunc enim primum incide, et fac fora- *' men "in parte fcroti quae non fit declivis, *' neque in fundo fcroti, fed circa medium; " nec fac admodum latum: et extrada aqua, *' turundam impone quam longiffimam, me- *' dicamento, pus moventi iafedam, ut refi- *« na terebinthinae, cum thure, ovi vitello, et butyro; emplaftrum emoUiens, et pus mo- " vensON THE I^VDROCELE, &c. 40T Vol. II. D d fore " veils applica, ut diachylon cum gummis, et *' axungia porci; genitum autem pus^ noii " evacuetur per foramen, fed data opera intus' fervetur, ut coniaau fuv, car?iein fcnfim p^i- trefaaat. Neque innovanda medicamenta, nil! tota carx)fuerit in piis converfa\ id quod longo fit tempore V Now, to pafs over the abfurdity of the doc- tnne of removing or diffolving a fungous ex- crefcence, by means of the putrefying quahty of maftert as well as the great difturbance^ which muft be the confequence of confining It within the tunica vaginalis * it is very clear from thefe, and from every other circumftance attending the difeafe in queftion, that the cafes, which Fabritius had fuccefsfully made his experiment upon, muft have been mere fimple hydroceles, attended with a fmall de- gree of enlargement; but without any difeafed ftate of the tefticle. This is one method of . procuring a radical cure of the faid difeafe: a method in ufe, be- ^ « 5i carnofa, & aquofa fit hernia, ego talem adhibeo curam ; " feco cutem, & incifionem facio exiguam, & in loco potlus al' ' tiore, quam in fundo: indc turunda impofita cum digellivo & ' pus movente medicamento diutius proccdo, neque unquara ' Pusextraho, fed perpetuobonam partem intus relinquo; quod ' fenfim carnem corrodit, & ita fanat."'402 A TREATISE fore Fabrltius praftifed it; and ftill in fonie meafure employed: a method which, in fome iuftances, has always been fuccefsful; and which may, in general, be tried on any fimple hydrocele^ in a young and healthy fiibjeft. The cure (when it efFe6ts one) is not brought about by the deftruftion of an excrefcence from the tefticle, or the dlffolution of its fup- pofed induration; but merely by exciting fuch an inflammation, as fliall occafion an adhefion of the tunica vaginalis to the tunica' albuginea; by which means, the cavity of the former is obliterated; the tefticle remaining, as to fize and confiftence, juft as it was before fuch oper- ation was performed^. But this, though prac- ticable, s Another method of treating this difeafe, In ufe before Fa- brltius ab Aquapendente (as may be feen in Guido and others) and much preferable, if ufed in proper cafes, is the method by feton. This, as I have already obferved, I have feveral times prac- tifed with fuccefs, in thofe who would not fubmit to incifion, or in whom it was by no means proper. Fabritius ab Aquapendente had a different, and that an erro- neous, idea of this difeafe: he conceived, that there was a fun- gous kind of excrefcence on the tefticle, and that this excrefcence required erofion and deftrudtion; this he aimed at accomplifhing, by means of the matter collected within; and therefore his prin- cipal aim was to confine and increafe it, by making his punfture, for6N TtiE liiYiDROCfeLE, SzC. 403 ticable, and fometimes fuccefsfal in the hy* drocele> is not to be thought of in the difeafed or fcirrhous tefticlei The operation, as de- ibribed by Aqnapendente^ confifls of two points; firft to let out the waterj, and then to caufe a plentiful fuppuration. When the tefticle is really and primarily difeafed, and the extravafation is a confequence of fuch dileafe, the difcharge of the water from the cavity of the tunica vaginahs, whether by pundlure, or by incifion, can contribute no- thing material toward a cure of the principal complaint, and is therefore ufelefs; but it may, in many cafes, do harm, by creating a difturbance in parts, whofe ftate requires the moft perfed quietude; and is therefore wrong. for the ihtroduftion of his tent, in the upper pif t of the tumor ; , and by imbuing it, from time to time, medicamentis pus mo- ventibus. Had he been right in his idea, his praftice would have been jufl: but his Conception of the difeafe was erroneous, and his practice abfurd. The rational intention fliould be> to excite fuch a degree of inflaaimation, as may produce an union between the .tunica vaginalis and the albuginea: the formation of matter is a Ihere accidental confequence of this inflammation; and the means ufed to procure the end (provided it be procured)^ cannot be too gentle. The matter is of no reaJ ufe, and therefore it is fo far from being neceflary to confine it, that if the conjunftion of the coats can be obtained, without the formation of any, it is fo much the better. D d a When4^4 A TREATISE 5 ' ml When the difeafe is a mere fimple hydrocele, the palliative cure, as it is called, by punfture, is' right and neceffary; it renders the hfe of the patient ealy; rids him, every nov/ and then, of a very troublefome burden; is per- fe£lly fafe; may be performed and repeated occafionally, at any time of the patient's hfe, or in almoft any ftate of the difeafe: but the introdudion of tents or fetons, or the endea- vour by any means to excite inflammation, or to eftablifh fuppuration within the tunica va- ginalis, requires (even in the fimple hydro- cele, where the teilicle is unaffecled) fome little confideration, and ought not to behaftily or unadvifedly put in pradice. In fome ages, habits, &c. the fymptom^ will rife very high, and occafion both trouble and hazard: and if this be the cafe, when the teftis is not at all difeafed, and when there is no mahgnfty, either in the local complaint, or in 'the habit of the patient; what have we not to fear vi^here there is both? where the parts are already fpoiled by difeafe, and where irritation and inflammation may (and do) ex- cite the moft fatiguing fymptoms, and the moft direful, confequences ? Befides the hydro-farcocele, or limpid exr travafation of fluid, in the cavity of the vagi^ON THE HYDROCELE, &c. 405 "'''nal coa^, (and which muft therefore always be external to the tefticle) fcirrhous and can- cerous teftes are liable to colledlions of fiuid, within the fubftance of them, under the tu- nica albuo-inea^ Thefe are fometimes laro-e, and in one cavity; fometimes fiiiall, and in feveral diftin(5t ones. They are alfo very dif- ferent in nature, in different cafes; fometimes ferous, fometimes fanious; fometimes puru- lent, fometimes bloody. Thefe are very apt to impofe on the inadvertent and injudicious; (efpecially if they be attended with fome de- gree of inflammation in the fkin;) and to in- duce an opinion of an abfcefs, or impofthum- ation, which may be relieved or cured by an opening; hvxl caveat operator. Thefe collec- * Job a Meekren has made a very jufl: and judicious remark on this fubjeft. Fabridus ab Aquapendente had reckoned a col- leftion of fluid, within the tunica albuginea teftis, among the kinds of hydrocele. This Meekren does not allow; but, having defcribed the true hydrocele of the vaginal coat, fpeaks of this colleflion within the albuginea, as it really is; that is, as a con- fequence of the difeafed ftate of the gland. His words are, " Hieronymus Fabritius ab Aquapendente, Part I. de Operat, " Chirurg. cap. yj. aquam in tellibus congregari docet earn " quae ex imo ventre eo defluit: at error eft (meo judicio) " magni anatomici. Spatio enim eo, quod eft inter tefticuium " & tunicam, imo in fcroto ipfo, aqua fcepius colligitur: «««- f' (luam in tejiibus ipfis, iiijiputrr/cant.'^ d 3 tions4^6 A TREATISE tions will be found to bear a much fmaller proportion to the general fize of the tumor, than they who are not converfant with them are inclined to apprehend; the fubfidence, after the opening has been made, will alfo be much fmaller than was expeded; and, inftead of relief and eafe, all the fymptoms of pain, fwelling, inflammation, &c. will be increafed and aggravated: and if the opening be confi- derable, it not infrequently happens, that an ill-natured fungus is thruft forth; which, by bleeding, gleeting, and being horridly painful, difappoints the furgeon, and renders the ftate of the patient much more deplorable than it was before: neither is this fenfation, which is thought like the fluduation of a fluid within the tefticle, to be at all times depended upon as implying that there is any fluid at all there. The touch, in this cafe, is fubjeft to great de^ ception; and I have feen a loofened texture of the whole vafcular fl:ru6:ure, or body of the tefticle, produce a fenfation fo like to the fluc- tuation of a fluid lying deep, as has impofed on perfons of good judgment, and ^reat; caution. Many of the moft efteemed writers on this part of furgery, either not being praditioners,ON THE HYDROCELE, Scc. 407 or being afraid to ditfer from thofe who have written before them, have lazily and fervilely copied each other, and have thereby fallen into an obfcure jargon concerning this difeafe, which neither themfelves nor their readers have underftood. They have talked of the fcirrhoiis tefticle, the caro adnata ad teftem, and the caro adnata ad fpermatica vafa, as fo many different difeafes, requiring different methods of treatment. ■ The melancholia, the atra bills, and a cer- tain inexplicable adufi: ftate of humours, are faid to be the canfes of thefe different appear- ances ; and the flefliy fubftance arifing from, or adhering to, the fpermatic veflels, is faid to be more benign, than either the fungus arifnig from the tefticle, or the true fcirrhus. For the firff, they have defcribed an operation,, which is coarfe, cruel, painful, and (notwith- Handing. all" that they have faid about it) un^ fuccefsful; all which they muft have known, if they had praBifid it. I therefore am much inclined to believe, that this is one of the many parts of ancient furgery, which having been devifed by fome one bold, hardy operator, and by him defcribed as pradlicable, has been related by many of his fucceffors as pra^lifcd^4^5 A TREATISE The fecond, the caro adnata ad teftem, they allow to be attended with more difficulty, as well as hazard, and feldom to be attempted with fuccefs'. They ' Ramex haic inter excrefcenti'as annumerari poteft, cum " fit additamentum ex toto prcsternaturale; nec illi infunt figna " apoftematls, fed tantum ut caro qua circa fcrotum aut epidi- ' dymem generari folet.M .Andreas a Cruce. ♦* Curatio ejus eft, ut incidatur cutis tefticulorum, & exco- ' netur ufque ad fuperioraj deinde extrahe didymum & tefci- ' culum, & libera eos ab omni parte ex ilia carnofitate," Brunus. ff Fit etiam hernia quandoque ex carnofitate quadam praeter ' naturam nafcentc juxta tefticulum; & tunc pellicula incifa un- ■ dique debet excoriari; & difcooperta carnofitate ilia a corip • exteriori ufque, fuperius caulerio abfcindatur.'' ROLAMDUS. " Cura ejus non poteft fieri nifi cum manu pellem exteri- ' orem fcindendo, et carnem a tefticulis fcarnando, & incarna- auferendo." Lanfran-c. " Scinde pellem tefticuli cum raforio ufque ad tefticulum, & tunc carnofitatem, quam invenis, removeas & excarnes to- ;?^gitur a tefticulo." Gut. e Saliceto. \'fr:Jfi0tandem eft in hac operatione num caro concreverit circa tunicas, an circa ipfos teftes; numque firmiter an minus firme adhereat partis fubftantiac. Incidendum eft totum fcrotum ufque ad carnem concretam, qua: fi quidem valenter haud fit affixa, vel fummis digitis, vel manubriolo fcalpente, a telle vel tunicis, fenfim fit auferfenda." Fab. ab Aqjtapend^nte. " Caro item fspifllme teftlculis, aut eorum tunicis adnafcitur, ferofus enim humor ifte nonnunquam acris fadtus venas capil- ^' lares.ON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 405 They, who are under a neceffity of forming their opinions principally from books, and who have " lares, membranafque leviter erodit. Hinc pars ilia fanguinis que paulatim exudat, qu^que optima & laudabilis eft, beneficio " caloris innati, in carneara fubftandam concrefcit, &c. reli- *' quum vero fanguinis quod ferofum efl, paulatim m'embranas " totumque fcrotum adeo extendit, ut caro ifta quas tefticulo adf herit, digitis palpari non pofllt." Faeritius Hild anus. " Secandum eft ft;rotum, 8c detegenda caro, & a tefte dera- <' denda vel a vafis, &c." Gab. Fallopius. The falfe reafoning, the want of anatomical knowledge, the cruelty and inutility of the propofed operations, and the terrible confequences which muft follow frorn their being put in praftice, are too glaring to need any comment; and fuch as muft incline every reafonable man to hope, that thefe authors (and a great multitude of others, who might be named) did in this part of fur- gery as they have done in many others; that is, copy each other in the precepts-relative to |;he caufe and treatment of this difeafe, but did not put their direftions often into pradllce. The imper- fedl ftate of anatomy, in the time of the above-cited writers, may be admitted as an excufe for them; but even very late ones have fallen into the fame error. " In the fungous excrefcence upon the teftis, when the fame f is not over-grown, you are to make way thereto; which is «* then to be confumed by efcharotics, or by the aftual cauterjr.'* Turn ER, Si quid vero carnis enatum a tefticulo deprehenditur, quod graviter hominem affligat, nec difcuti tamen per adhibita nie- f dicamenta convenientia queat, tym ft tefticulus integer adhuc ** eft, atque illibatus, feliciter ut plurimum fanari noxa poterit, " ipfeque tefticulus fervari; dummodo quicquid prater naturam " fuper increvit, deopertoycrott, quam exaftiflime ab eofol'vaturf f atque refcindatur."A TREATISE have not frequent opportunities of knowing from experience how very little they are (in many cafes) to be depended upon, may be inclined to think that all thefe diftindions really exiil; and that thefe operations by fire and fword, by knives and cauteries, fo exaftly defcribed, muft be fometimes necefTary; but having never feen the particular cafes requir- ing fuch treatment, have a very imperfeft idea, either of them, ox of the operations; and are, to the lafl degree, alarmed and intimi- dated, when any thing, which they think is like to it, occurs to them in pradice. To fuch, it may not be amifs to explain this mat- ter, in as few words as I can; begging pardon of the more intelligent reader for the di- ^reffion. " Quod fi autem Ipfum telllculum invaferk; vel excindi etiam •* propter nimios cruciatus, vel fimiles alias caufas, indecore pro- ** minentes partes nequeant, necelTarium utique erit, vel univer- *'^uitt tefticulum, quanda/u faltem ejus partem, modo jam pro- pofito exfcinderc." Heister. ToXet afide the ftrange diftinflion between the " caro enata *♦ atefticulo," and that " qux ipfum tefticulum invaferit," (a diftinftion taken from books only) I believe I may venture to fay, that the profeflbr never found, that the operations which he de- fcribes and advifes, were attended with fuccefsj and I hope that h« has not often feen them performed. InON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 41I In the Ihort anatomical account which I have given of thefe parts, I have taken no notice, that the Ipermatic veffels terminate in the tefticle: and that, after the femen has been fecreted from the blood, it pafles from that gland into a body which feems fuperadded to, although it be really continuous with, it. This body is therefore called the epididymis, and is fo placed, with regard to the teftis, that a heed- lefs or uninformed obferver may fuppofe, that the fpermatic veffels terminate in it; efpecially if it be enlarged by difeafe. It takes its rife from the tefticle, by a number of veffels, called, from their office, vafa efferentia: thefe foon become one tube, which, being convo- luted and contorted in a moft wonderful man- ner, forms the greater part of the faid body: and at laft, ceafing to be fo convoluted, it ends in one firm canal, called the vas deferens; by which, the fecreted femen is conveyed from the tefticle to the veficulae feminales. Whoever will attentively confider the epidi- dymis in its natural pofition, with regard to the tefticle and the fpermatic veflels, will fee, that if it be enlarged beyond its proper fize, it will extend itfelf upward, in fuch a manner as to f(?em to be clofely conneded with them, andA TREATISE and to bear the refemblance of adifeafed body, fpringing from them. This is the cafe called the caro adnata ad vafa fpermatica; and is really and truly nothing more, than an enlargement of the epididymis; a circumftance which occurs not infrequently, but does not imply any malignity, either in the part or in the patient's habit; and can never require fuch a horrid operation as our fore- fathers have directed us to perform upon it; nor indeed any at all. The epididymis is frequently enlarged, in venereal cafes, either feparately, as in the re- mains of a hernia humoralis, or together with the tefticle, in that affeftion of it, which I have called the venereal farcocele; and fome- tirnes from mere relaxation of its natural tex- ture, without any difeafe at all. But in none of thefe can it require, or even admit, any ma- nual operation of ahy kind. Indeed, whoever will confider the epididymis, as it reaUy is, as the medium by and through which the femen is conveyed from the tefticle to the vas defe- rens, muft immediately be fenfible of the glar- ing abfurdity of removing any part of it. The fcirrhus and cancer do not very often begin in this part; they mpft frequently make theON THE Hydrocele, Szc, The the firil: attack on the body of the teftis: and, though the epididymis is often cancerous, yet it moft frequently becomes fo fecondarily, or after' the tefticle is fpoiled; fo that the removal of it, if prafticable, could ferve no good pur- pofe: it would not remove the difeafe; for that has, before-hand, moft commonly taken pofleffion of the tefticle; and the cutting off" any part of a fcirrhous or cancerous tumor of any kind, is what no man, who has the leaft knowledge of what he is about, will ever think of. In ftiort, thefe two Cafes, which by the in- attention and mifreprefentation of our ancef- tors, have created fuch perplexity in the minds of their readers, are either a fimple enlarge- ment of the epididymis, without any morbid alteration in its ftrudure; or a difeafed (that is a fcirrhous) ftate of the fame part j or elfe, a fcirrhous or cancerous tefticle, with inequa- lity of furface. The firft of thefe requires no manual operation of any kind; and the two laft will admit of none: the firft is no difeafe at all; and the two laft are fuch difeafes, that every attempt made on them, by knife or cauftic, (unlefs for total extirpation) muft ren- der them worfe, and mord intradable.4^4 A TREATISE: The manner of treating a farcocele, or fiel'-^ nia carnofa, depends entirely on the particular' nature and ftate of each individual cafe. In fome, it will admit of palliation only; in others, the difeafe may be eradicated by the extirpation of the part: fo that, under the article of method of cure, we have only to confider, and point out, as clearly as the na- ture of the difeafe will permit, what ftates and circumflances, both of it, and of the pa- tient labouring under it, forbid the operation, and what render it advifable. On this head, great variety of opinions will be found among writers ; fo great, that a man, who is under a neceflity of forming his judgment from them, will find himfelf under fome difficulty how to aft; and fo great, that I cannot help thinking it to be clear, that the majority have not written from practice, but from mere conjefture, of from the works of thofe who have gone be- fore them. Some have given it as then* opinion, that while the tefticle is perfe£lly indolent (let the alteration in its ftrufture, form, or confidence be what it may) it is better to fufler It to re- main, than to remove it. In fupport of this opinion.ON THE HYDROCELE, &CV 415 and opinion, they fay, that although the difeafe has plainly taken polTellion of the part, yet^ while it caufes no pain, the conftitution re- ceives no damage from it; nor is the health- of the patient impaired by it; whereas, by removing the tefticle, the fame virus may feize on fome part of more confequence to life. This method of realbning takes fo? granted two things, which do not appear to be ftriaiy or conftantly true, viz. that this difeafe is never perfectly local; and that a fcirrhous teflicle, though free from pain, will not in time produce any,evil to the general habit of the patient. Others advife us to flay until the tumor becomes painful, and mani-» feftly increafes in fize, or acquires a fenfible inequality of furface; that is (in other words) until it begins to alter from a quiet ftate, to a mahgn one: which advice, as well as the preceding, fuppofes that the hazard of the mere operation of caftration is too great to render it an advifable thing, until the p^itient is prefTed by bad fymptpms; and that a fcir- rhous teflicle, which has been quiet and free from pain for fome time, may be as fuccefl- fully extirpated after it has become painful,4-1^ A TREATISE and has acquired a fnalignant and threatening ftate, as at any time before ftich alteration. The latter of thefe will hardly be admitted (I beheve) by thofe, who form their opinions from experience; and with regard to the for- mer, 1 can, with great truth, affirm,- that 1 never faw the mere operation of caftration, when performed in time, and on a proper fubjed, prove fatal. Many people have I known, who have lived feveral years, their whole hves, perfectly free from difeafe, after the removal of quiet, in- dolent, fcirrhous tefticles; and feveral have' I known, who having deferred the operation until they were urged by pain, increafe of fize, and inequahfy of the tumor, have, fronl the fore becoming cancerous, not been able- to obtain a cure. That I have feen the fame thing happen, after the removal of a tefticle^ circumfianced in the beft manner, is beyond all doubt ;■ but not near fo frequently, as in thofe cafes in which the operation has been deferred until the fymptoms became alarm- ing, and the difeafe had changed its appear^ ance, from a benign quiet one, to one that was malign and painful. Indeed, were we capableON THE HYDROCELE, Szc. 417 capable of knowing with certainty which thofe fcirrhi were, that would remain quiet and inofFenhve throuQ-h Hfe, or for a great length of time, and which would not, we Ihould then be enabled to advife or diffuade the operation upon much better (that is, much furer) grounds, than at prefent we are able to do. We have no fuch degree of know- ledge ; all our judgment is forrned upon the mere recolledlion of what has happened to others in nearly fimiiar circumftances; and experience, though the beft general guide, is, in thefe cafes, more fallacious than in many others. A few people there certainly have been, who have been fo fortunate as to carry a fcir- rhous tefticle through many years, with little or no pain or trouble: but the number of thofe, in whom time, (and that frequently a Ihort fpace) change of conftitution, external accidental injury, &c. do not make fuch an alteration in this difeafe, as to render the oper- ation lefs likely to be fuccefsful, than it would have been at firft, and under more favourable circumftances, is fo fmall, that 1 chink early caftration (that is, as foon as the difeafe is fairly formed and charaderifed) may be re- VoL, IT. ,E e commended4i8 A TREATISE commended and praftifed by every honefl and judicious furgeon ^. Indeed ^ Scirrhous and cancerous tumors are found in many parts of the body, as well as in the tefticle ; and in all others, as well as in that, bear different charaders: that is, fliow a greater or lefsdifpofition to malignity; remaining fometimesof fmall fize, and eafy for many years; at others, increafing fall, and fo producing great pain, and all its bad confequences. Of all the kinds of this difeafe, thofe which follow upon fome external violence (fuch as blow, bruife,&c.) are thought and faid to be the Jeaft ; therefore, great regard has. always been paid to this diftinftion by writers, and great hopes con- ceived from this circumftance by patients. I wifli I could fay, that fuch hopes were always as well founded as- they are thought to be : I mean, that experience moll frequently veri- fied them. When a fcirrhus feizes a part that has previoufly fuftained an injury from without, fuch probable caufe is undoubtedly a favourable circumllance: but it does not, by any means, necelTary follow from thence, that the conIlituti9n of fuch per- fon is free from taint. It is a prefumption, but not a proof: and this prefumption becomes more reafonable, if the difeafed Hate of the part follows fuch accidental injury foon, than if it appears at a great diftance of time. No .man will pretend to fay, that fuch mifchief has not been done by outward violence, that cancerous diforders have not followed, in the parts fo injured, in perfons, who, before fuch accident, never had any appearance of fucli diforder; and who poflibly might have lived many years, nay, their whole life, without its appearing in fuch form and manner: but that, previous to fuch accident, there was no cancerous difpo- fition or malignity in the habit, is an inference which cannot be admitted. WhatON Tl-rfe HYDROCELE, &c. 41^ Indeed, the circumftances of frequent pain/ and a manifefl tendency to an increafe of fize, What diforders of the joints do we fee, produced by very- flight injuries done to them ? diforders which are clearly and plainly fcrophulous, and which would not have appeared at that time, or in that part, had it not been for fuch accident: but furely no man will from thence conclude, that fuch people have no fcrophulous taint in their blood, or glands, previous to fuch llrain or bruife. How many internal parts are there for this difeafe, as well as fome others, to make its attack upon; but which, by being out of fight, and not deemed ob- jefts of furgery, are not known; and pafs either for other difeafes, or for the fymptoms of other difeafes ? What tumors of the lumbal glands and mefentery; what obftrudlions in all parts of the contents, both of the abdomen and thorax, do we not find, upon examining the dead, whofe diforders were very little known or underftood while they were living; but whofe prevailing indifpofition, whofe natural dyfcralia, would moll probably have Ihewn itfelf in fome more vifible part, if fuch part had accidentally fuffered from external violence ? All that we from experience know, and therefore all that we ought honeftly to fay on this occafion, is, that it has very often happened, that where that kind of diforder, which pro- duces fcirrhoijs or cancerous tumors, has been brought into aftion by external injury,' (whether it be in the breaft, tefticle, or any other part, it matters not;) or when fuch kind of dif- eafe has feized fuch part; no preceding violence having been offered to it, and has therein occafioned a fixed but,indolent kind of fwelling, which has either remained a long time of one fize and ftate; or, if it has altered, has altered very flowly. and given the patient but little uneafinefs; if fuch tu- mor has been fo fituated and circumftanced, that it could fafcly be extirpated or removed, thkt fuch removal or extirpation E e 2 has42C> A treatise: fize, are hy foime people looked on as fuch marks of a malignant difpofition, that they have lias often cured the prefent evil; and that the patient has re- mained free from any thing of like fort, during his or her life. This.is true, and therefore is and ever will be afufficient reafon forpreffing fuch operation, when all other circumftances are favourable : that the patient may keep well after it, is by no means improbable j that the fcirrhus would remain, through life, indolent and inofFenfive, is very improbable. But whoever boldly alTerts, that fuch extirpation will always and certainly cure the difeafe, is very inexperienced, or is wilfully guilty of a deception, (the two diftinguifhing marks of a quack, who always promifes, what he either does not know, or does not believe.) When a fcirrhus or cancer is favourably circumllanced, and fo fituated as that it may be extirpated, fuch extirpation is indeed the only remedy; and that method by which fuch ex- tirpation can be moft certainly and expeditioufly executed, is, beyond all doubt, the beft. The two in ufe are, the knife arid the cauftic. The former, in the hand of a furgeon who is an anatomifl, has every advan- tage which can be delired or fuppofed: it gives lefs pain, is more fecure and more expeditious; but it imprefTes on the patient the apprehenfion of an operation, and the fear of an haemorrhage. The ufe of cauftic is infinitely more painful, not only in immediate fenfation, but in duration: it often re- quires repetition : it is lefs manageable, lefs fecure} and tlie great length of time which fometimes the Reparation of the mortified parts takes up, renders it very tedious. But it is attended with two circumftances, which have greatly contri- buted to the fupport of cancer quackery : one is, that it fpares the patient the horror of an operation, which, diough infi- nitely lefs painful than the efFedl of the cauftic, is not believed toON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 421 have been by them reckoned as difliiafives from the operation. B\it to be fo: the other is, that the ragged appearance, which the' bottom and fides of the parts make after having been removed by fuch application, is fo unlike to the fmoothnefs of that which has been removed by incifion, that ignorant people are eafily induced to believe, what the defigning always tell them, viz. that the medicine has taken their difeafe out by the roots; and that the ragged parts, which they fee, are fuch roots. It is amazing what weight this fingle circumftance has wltH many, and even with fome fenfible people; few of whom are perfuaded to believe what is as true as any propofition in Eu- clid, viz. that a cauftic of equal ftrength, applied on any glandular part of any perfon, will always produce exaftly the fame eiTedt and appearance as, in this cafe, palfes with them for the roots or branches of the difeafe. When nurfes and quacks talk of the fibrous roots of a canr cer, and of cancerous fermentations, they are. excufable; the one from their ignorance, the other from the ijature of their trade; but when they who pretend to fome kind of medical knowledge ufe this kind of language, it is lhameful. If either the fears of the patient, or the particular circum- ftances of the part to be removed, render the ufe of cauftic preferable, or nece^^ary, every praditioner is well acquainted with thofe which are perfectly efhcacious; but every pradli- tioner alfo knows, that good reafons for preferring the ufe of them to the knife very feldom occur: it is in this a? in the at- tempts toward' a radical cure for ruptures, and fome other parts of furgery, we are cenfured where we ought to be ap- plauded, and blamed for thofe very things from whence we ought to derive praife. We have laid afide certain methods and procefTes, becaufe we found them (upon experience) to be painful, liazardous, and inefFeftual: and thefe very me- E e 3 ' thods.422 A TREATISE But thefe gentlemen carry their fears and apprehenfions much too far the other way. Pain and,a quick increafe of fize are certainly no favourable fymptoms ; they fliew a difpo- fition to mifchi^f, but they are not fuch po- thods, deftruftive and fallible as they are, have given credit and honour to thofe who have had ignorance and inhumanity enough to revive them. We are not yet fo happy as to be pofleffed of any medicine which will cure a cancerous habit: when the conftitution is thoroughly infefled, neither our knives or cauftics will avail; they can only remove the local mifchief, but can have no ef- fedl on the general one in the conftitution. Whoever fayS othervvife, fays what is not true; and whoever believes Qther- vvife, is impofed' upon. When the habit is concerned, as it too frequently is, it muft be an internal remedy that proves a fpecific, whenever we are fo happy as to be blelTed with the dif- covery. The fuppofition, that an efcharotic can, by deftroy- ing a particular part, eradicate the difeafe from the habit, is (one would be inclined to fuppofe) too grofs an abfurdity for the moft credulous believer to fwallow ; and yet it is believed, and trufted to every day. Indeed, it fometimes happens in the treatment of thefe cafes, that either the arrival of puberty, a favourable turn in a conftitution, or the renewal of long- obftrudted evacuations (efpeclally the uterine ones) lhall re- ftore the patient to a better ftate of health, and prevent either the farther progrefs of the diforder, or any new appearance of it in any other place. In this cafe, if the extirpation was made by an external application, and not by an inftrument, fuch ap- plication is thought to have wrought the cure, and has all the Credit of doing what it really had no lhare in then, what it never can do, nor have the appearance of doing again, but in the like accidental circumftances. fitiveON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 423 fitive proofs of a cancerous habit, as to render all hope of a cure, from the removal of the difeafed part, vain: there are many inftances to the contrary: and though no honeft or ju- dicious man will venture to promife fuccefs, even in the moft favourable of thefe cafes, yet it is well known, that they which have had very unpromifing appearances, not only from the flate of the tefticle, but from that of the fpermatic chord, have fucceeded often enough, to make the chance of a cure, by the oper- ation, by no means a defperate one. The ftate of a man left to his fate in thefe circum- ftances, that is, to the fury and progrefs of • the difeafe, is fo truly miferable, that nothing Ihould be left unattempted, which carries with it any probability of being ferviceable: and a praditioner is vindicable, in preffing what he has known to be fuccefsful; though, at the fame time, he ovght to make a guarded kind of prognoftic. Upon the whole, I think it may juftly be faid, that the man who has the misfortune to be afflided with a truly fcirrhous tefticle, has very little chance (notvvithftanding all that has been faid and v/ritten about fpecifics) to get rid of it by any means, but by extirpation: E e 4 and4-4 A TREATISE and all the time the operation is deferred, he carries about him a part not only ufelefs and biirthenfome, but which is every day liable, from many circumftances (both external and internal) to become worfe, and more unfit for fuch operation. While the tefticle is fmall, and free from acute or frequent pain, the velTels from which it is dependent are moft frequently foft, and free from difeafe; whereas, when the teftis has been fufFered to attain a confiderable fize, the cafe is frequently otherwife; the fperma- tic vefTels are often large and varicofe; and the cellular membrane invefting them fometimes becomes thick, and contrads fuch connexions and adhefions, which, though they may not amount to an abfolute prohibition of the oper- ation, do yet render it tedious, troublefome, and more hazardous, than it would be in other circumftances. Every addition to the original complaint in the body of the gland is againft the patient; and if any of thefe are the con- fequence of not having removed it in time. It will follow, that the fooner it is removed, the better. If we wait for what fome call indications of the neceffity of operating, we fhall often flay until it will do no good. Many an oneON THE HYDROCELE, &e. 425 an one have I feen lofe a vjsry probable chance of a cure by delay: but I do not renciember ever to have feen a tefticle removed, bj a man of judgment, which tefticle did not, upon ex- amination, fully vindicate the extirpation. If we were poflefled of any medicine, either ex- ternal or internal, which had been kn6wn now and then to have diffolved fcinhi, it would always be right to recommend the trial of them previous to an operation; and it would always be right to defer operating until fuch trial had been made. But the truth is, we know no fuch medicine. The credulous on the one hand, and the defigning on the other, have told ns many ftrange ftories of cures ef- fected by fuch applications and remedies; and I do moft iincerely wifh, that what each of them have faid was true; but repeated, faith- ful, experience has proved that it is not; and that they who have placed their confidence in them, or laid out their money on them, have been difappointed and cheated. Some circumftances there are now and then attending this difeafe, which are out of our fight, and out of our knowledge, and whicli, will render all our pains abortive: fuch arc tubercles, indurations, and other difeafed ap- 7 pearances426 A TREATISE pearaiices in the cellular membrane envelop- ing the fpermatic veffels within the abdomen; fcirrhous, vifcera, &c. If any of thefe can be known, they conftitute a good reafon for not attempting the cure by the operation; but the mere poffibility that fuch may exift, is cer- tainly no reafon for abftaining from it: the ap- parent evil, that is, the difeafed teftis, is cer- tain ; the other may or may not be the cafe: the one, if left to itfelf, is moft likely to de- ftroy the patient in a moft miferable and tedi- ous manner; and the other, the fufpeded miA chief, may poffibly not exift,. But though the timely and proper removal of a fcirrhous or cancerous tefticle does fre- quently fecure to the patient hfe,, health,, and cafe, which, in fuch .circumftances, are not attainable by any other means; yet it miift be remarked, that the improper and untimely performance of the operation is not only not attended with fuch happy and falutary event, but generally brings on high fymptoms, and quick deftrudion. It therefore behoves every pradlitioner to be perfeftly well acquainted, not only with fuch circumftances as render caftration pra£ticable and advifable, but with thofe which prohibit fuch attempt. ThefeON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 427 Thefe are of two kinds, and relate either to the general habit of the patient, and the dif- orders and indifpofitions of fome of the vifcera, or to the flate of the tefticle, and fpermatic chord. I A pale, fallow complexion, in thofe who ufed to look otherwife; a wan countenance and lofs of appetite and flefli, without any acute diforder; a fever of the hedlic kind; and frequent pain in the back and bowels, are, in thofe who are afflided v/ith a fcirrhous tefticle, fuch circumftances as would induce a fufpi- cion of fome latent mifchief, and incline one to fuppofe that the fame kind of virus, which had apparently fpoiled the teftis, may alfo have exerted its malign influence on fome of the vifcera: in which cafe, fuccefs from the mere removal of the tefticle is not to be ex- pe6led. They, whofe conftitutions are fpoiled by debauchery and intemperance, previous to their being attacked with this difeafe; who have hard livers, and anafarcous hmbs, aje not proper fubjefts for fuch an operation. Hard tumors within the abdomen in the regions of the liver, fpleen, kidneys, or mefentery, im- plying a difeafed ftate of the faid vifcera, are very material objeaions to the removal of the 5 local428 A TREATISE . F local evil in the fcrotum. In fhort, whenever there are manifeft appearances or fymptoms of a truly difeafed ftate of any. of the principal vifcera, the fuccefs of the operation becomes very doubtful; more efpecially, if fuch fymp- toms and appearances, upon being properly treated, refift in fuch manner, as to make it moft probable, that a cancerous virus is the real caufe of them. When none of thefe re- quire our attention, the object of confideration is the tefticle and its fpermatic veffels. The flate^of the mere teftis can hardly ever be any objedlipn'to the operation; the fole confider- ation is the fpermatic chord: if this be in a natural ftate, and free from difeafe, the oper- ation not only may, but ought to be per- formed, let the condition of the tefticle be what it may; if the fpermatic chord be really difeafed, the operation ought not to be at- tempted. For although on the one hand, a probability of fuccefs will vindicate an attempt, even though it fhould fail; yet, on the other, where there is no fuch probability, an oper- ation, though performed in the moft dexterous manner, will -prove only a more ingenious method of tormenting. ThisON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 429 This therefore (the ftate of the fpermatic chord) is a matter which may require our rrioft ferious con(ideration; -fmce, on this it is (when the difeafe appears to be local) that we muft found our judgment; and by this muft form our refolution, either to leave, a man to the truly miferable fate of being flowly, though certainly, deftroyed, by a cruelly painful, and frequently very ofFenlive difeafe; or endea-- vour to fave, and preferve him in health and eafe, by means which have fo often proved fuccefsful, as truly to deferve the appellation of probable. All writers on this fubjeft agree in faying, that if the fpermatic procefs has partaken of the difeafed ftate of the tefticle, that is, has become enlarged and hardened, and fuch en- largement and induration extends itfelf quite up to the abdominal mufcle, that the oper- ation of caftration ought not to be performed^ becaufe it not only will prove fuccefslefs, but will haften the death of the patient. And • this is, in fome degree, moft certainly true; but not without fome limitation.. A truly and abfolutely difeafed ftate of the fpermatic chord, in any part of it, is certainly a very material objedlion to the operation, as it moft commonlv43^ A 'rREATISE commonly proves a bar to the fuccefs of it: and a morbid ftate of the fame chord quite as high as the abdominal mufcle, that is, of all that part of it which is external to the cavity of the belly, is a jufl: and full prohibition againft fuch attempt. But on the other hand it mufl be obferved, that every apparently morbid alteration of the fpermatic chord is not really fuch; and therefore, that every enlarge- ment, induration, fulnefs, &c. which feems to alter the fpermatic veflels from that ftate which is called a healthy and natural one, is not to be regarded as a difeafe; at leaft, not as fuch a difeafe as is fufficient to prohibit the attempt to obtain a cure by extirpation. The dilference between thefe, it is the duty of every praftitioner to become perfedly ac- quainted with, as it is from a confideration of thefe, that he ought to determine, whether he may, with that firmnefs and affurance which the probable expe6lation of fuccefs will give him, propofe and advife caftration; or find himfelf obliged in confcience to difluade, or refufe, the performance of it. When the fpermatic veffels are not only turgid and full, but firm and hard; when the membrane, which inverts and conne<!ls them, hasON THE riYDROCEtE, &C. ^^f has loft its natural foftnefs and cellular tex- ture, and has contrafled fuch a ftate, and fuch adhefions, as not only greatly to exceed its natural fize, but to become unequal, knotty, and painful, upon being handled, and this ftate has poflefled all that part of the chord, which is between the opening in the oblique mufcle and the tefticle, no prudent, judicious, or humane man will attempt the operation ; becaufe he will moft certainly not only do no good to his patient, but will bring on fuch fymptoms as will moft rapidly as well as pain- fully deftroy him. Of this there are fo many proofs, that the truth of it is inconteftible. In fome modern French books, we have in- deed miraculous accounts of operations of this kind, performed by dividing the tendon of the oblique mufcle, by tracing the difeafed fper- matic veflels within the cavity of the belly, and there making the ligature and excifion: but thefe are operations which make a figure in books only, and are performed only by vi- fionary writers; or, if ever they have been pradifed, ferve to fhew the raftinefs and in- fenfibility of the operators, much more than their judgment or humanity. Whover (not- withftanding thefe tales) performs the oper- ation4j2 A TREAtlSE ation in the circumftances above-mentioned, will prove himfelf much more hardy than ju- dicious; and will deflroy his patient, without having the fatisfadion of thinking that his at- tempt, though fuGcefslefs, was yet vindicable; the only circumftance which can, in fuch events, give comfort to a man who thinks rightly. On the other hand, as I have already faid, every enlargement of the fpermatic chord is not of this kind, nor by any means fufEcient to prohibit or prevent the operation. Thefe alterations, or enlargements, arife from two' caufes, viz. a varicofe dilatation of the fpermatic vein, and a coUedion, or collec- tions, of fluid in the membrane inveftlnsc and enveloping the faid velTels. In the firft place, as there is no reafon in nature why a tefticle, whofe veflels have previoufly (for fome time perhaps) been in a varicofe ftate, fliould not become fcirrhous; fo it is alfo clear, that the fcirrhofity feizing fuch tefticle will by no means remove, or even leflen fuch varicofe dilatation of the vefTels from which it is de- pendent ; on the contrary, will moft probably, and indeed does moft frequently, increafe fuch diftention: but fuch mere varicofe enlarge- mentON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 433 meiit of the veffels, whether it be previous or confequential to the morbid ftate of the teftis, does not, nor ought to, prevent the removal of it, if otherwife fit and right. It is indeed an objedion to the do6trine of Mr. Le Dran, and a few other writers, who make no ligature on the chord, and truft to a flio;ht contufion of it between the finger and thumb for a fuppref- fion of the haemorrhage; but is none to the reft of the operation, as I can from experience teflif}^ In the next place, the difeafed ilate of a truly fcirrhous tefticle, its weight, and the al- teration that muik be made in the due and pro- per circulation of the blood, through both it and the veflels from which it is dependent, may and do concur in inducing a varicofe dila- tation of the fpermatic vein, without produce- ing that knotty, morbid, alteration and hard- nefs, which forbid our attempts. Between thefe, a judicious and experienced examiner will generally be able to diftinguifh. In the former (the truly difeafed flate) the chord is not only enlarged, but feels unequally hard and knotty; the parts of which it is com- pofed are undiftinguifliably blended together; it is either immediately painful to the touch, Vol. II. F f or434 A'treatise or becomes fo foon after being examined; the patient complains of frequent pains (hooting up through his groin into his back; and from the difealed flate of the membrane compofmg the tunica communis, fuch adhefions and connec- tions are fometimes contraded, as either fix the procefs in the groin, or render it difficult" to get the finger and thumb quite round it. In the other, (the mere varicofe diftention) the veffels, though confiderably enlarged and dilated, are neverthelefs finooth, foft, and compreffible; the whole procefs is loofe and free, and will eafily permit the fingers of an examiner to go all round it, and to diftinguifli the parts of which it is compofed: it is not painful to the touch; nor does the examination of it produce, or occafion, thofe darting pains which almbft always attend handling a procefs malignantly indurated. I do not fay, that the diftin6tion between thefe two ftates is always and invariably to be made; but that it often may, I know from re- peated experience: and that the operation may fafely be attempted, and fuccefsfully be per- formed, I know from the fame experience. The ftate of a man, left to the mercy of a malignant fcirrhus, is fo truly deplorable, thatON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 435 we cannot be too attentive in examining the precife nature of each individual cafe, and in' embracing every opportunity of giving him that relief, which it may at one time be in our power to give, and which, the lucky op^ portunity miffed, it may never be in his power again to receive. The other circumftance which I have men- tioned as capable of deceiving an operator, and inducing him to beheve that the Ipermatic chord is much more difeafed than it really is^ and thereby deterring him from the perform- ance- of an operation which might prove fuc- cefsful, is the extravafation, or CoUedion of fluid in the Cellular membrane enveloping the fpermatic veffels, between the abdominal open- ing and the teftis. In the cellular membrane leading to a dif- eafed tefticle, it is no very uncommon thing to find colledions of extravafated fluid. Thefe, as they add confiderably to the bulk, and ap- parent fize, of the procefs, make the com- plaint appear more terrible 5 and, as I have juft faid, lefs likely to admit relief. When this extravafation is sreneral throuo-h all the cells of the invefting membrane, and the fpermatic vefiels themfelves are hardened, F f 2 knotty,43^ A TREATISE knotty, and difeafed, the cafe is without re- medy; for ahhough a punfture, or an in- cifion, will undoubtedly give difcharge to fome, or even the greateft part of the fluid; yet this extravafation is fo fmall, and fo infig- nificant a circumftance of the difeafe, and the parts in this ftate are fo little capable of bear- ing irritation, that an attempt of this kind mull: be ineffed;ual, and may prove mif- chievous. But on the other hand, collections of water are fometimes made in the fame membrane, from an obftru6lion to the proper circulation through the numerous lymphatics in the fper-^ matic procefs, while the velTels themfelves are really not difeafed, and therefore very capable of permitting the operation. In this cafe, the fluid is generally in one cyft, or bag, like t© an encyfted hydrocele, and the fpermatic chord, cyft and all, are eafily moveable from fide to fide; contrary to the preceding ftate, in which the o-eneral load in the membrane fixes the whole procefs, and renders it almoft immoveable. A difcharge of the fluid will, in this cafe, enable the operator to examine the true ftate of thQ procefs, and, as I have twice or thrice feen,ON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 437 feen, put it into his power to free his patient from one of the moft terrible calamities, which can befal a man. There is one more circumftance relative to the fcirrhous tefticle, which appears to me to be worth attending to, as I cannot help think- ing, that it has mifled many, who have not had fufficient opportunity of comparing theory with praftice. It has been confidently afferted, and is ge- nerally believed, that a fcirrhous tefticle never begins in the epididymis of the faid tefticle. The confequence of this do£lrine is, that when a difeafe, which afFe£ls a tefticle, by enlarging and hardening it, makes its firft at- tack on the epididymis only, fuch difeafe is not allowed to be a fcirrhus, nor permitted to be treated as fuch. That inflammatory kind of tumor, which, in the virulent gonorrhea, feizes the tefticle, and is called the hernia humoraHs, affedls the epididymis; and, even under the beft care, fometimes leaves it too large, and too hard. This is faid never to end in, or produce a fcirrhus ; and, I do .not recoiled, that I have ever known it do fo. The difeafe which confifts in an induration and enlargement of F f 3 the43^ A TREATISE 5 rence the whole tefticle, in the more confirmed lues, affeds the epididymis alfo, as well as the glandular part of the tefticle; and I do not remember to have feeii it, either become can- cerous, or not yield to mercury, properly ad- miniftered. But that a true fcirrhus, or cancer, fometimes makes its firft attack on the epididymis, which it alters and fpoils, before it at all afFe6ts the tefticle, is a truth, of which I have not the leaft doubt. Among others, I formerly believed the con- trary doftrine; and, in the firft edition of this book, have given it as my opinion : but 1 am, from experience, fo perfe6tly con- vinced of the truth of what I have now af- ferted, that I think myfelf .obliged to declare it. The miftake, I fuppofe to have been made by the firft propagators of this opinion, thus: The hernia humoraKs, and the vene- real farcocele, always enlarge the epididymis, and generally leave it fomewhat too hard : both thefe have, by adventrous and unknow- ing people, been miftaken for fcirrhi j but it being found, by experience, that thefe alter- ations in the epididymis, were either totally removed by medicine, or, if any part remained it continued harmlefs throudi life; an infe-ON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 439 Yence was drawn, that as true fcirrhi are not often either removed by medicine, or conti- nue harmlefs, therefore an original affedion of the epididymis could never be a true fcir- rhus: a dedudion, which the premiffes do not by any means authorife ; and which I am fatisfied, is not true. The operation of caflration is performed as follows: The patient being laid on a table of conve- nient height, the integuments covering the fpermatic veflels in the groin are to be divided. This incifion fhould be begun, as nearly as can be, oppofite to the opening in the abdo- minal muicle, and Ihould be continued a good way down the fcrotum. The manner of beginning this incifion is differently defcribed by writers; fome of them advifing that the Ikin be held up by an aliift- ant; others that the knife be ufed perpendi- cularly, in this as in other parts: it is indeed a matter of no importance at all either to pa!- tient or furgeon, and therefore may very fafely be left to the choice of the latter ; but the length of the divifion is of confequence to both. A fmall wound will indeed ferve to lay bare the fpermatic chord, but it will not permit the operator to do what is necefiary F f 4 afterward,440 A TREATISE afterward, with dexterity or facility: a fmall wound gives as much paiu in the infliaion as a large one; and, as the fcrotum mufl:, firft or laft, be divided nearly to the bottom, it had better be done at firft, on every account. The fpermatic chord, thus laid bare, is to be freed from its furrounding membranous connexions; and then the operator, with his finger and thumb feparating the blood-veffels from the vas deferens, muft pafs a needle, armed with a ligature, between them; and having tied the former only, muft cut through or divide the whole chord, at a quarter or half an inch dif- tance from the faid ligature, according as the ftat'e of the procefs and tefticle will admit. This done; he is then (with the fame knife, with which he has performed the former part of the operation) to diffed the tefticle out from its connexion with the fcrotum: the loofe tex- ture of the dartos, the previous feparation of the tefticle from the fpermatic veiTels, and the help of an aftiftant to hold up the lips of the wound, will enable him todo this with very little pain to the patient, and great faciUty to himfelf This circumflance of cutting off the tefticle, before it be diflefted out from the fcrotum, immediately after the ligature has been^made, is of more confequence to the patient's ca,k, as well as to the facility and expedition of the operation, than the^ who have not tried it are aware of. IfON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 44I If any confiderable artery bleeds, either iii the fcrotum or in the dartos, it muft be re- trained by ligature; and when that is done, the void fpace in which the teflicle was, is ta be very lightly filled with foft dry linf^; which ' Lint, however foft and lightly applied, afts as a foreiga body, and prevents the immediate union of the wound. Our prefent method, and which Mr. Pott praftifed fince his publi- cation of this work, appears to be a confiderable improvement on this part of the operation:—when the teftis is removed, and the bleeding veffels of the fcrotum, if there are any of confe- quence, are fecured, no lint, nor dreffing of any kind is intro- duced ; "but the parietes of the wound are brought together and retained by ligatures, more or fewer, according to the extent of the wound, as, from the moifture of the parts, fticking-plafter cannot be depended on: thefe ligatures Ihould be tied with flip knots, that they may be loofened, without a neceflity being in- duced of removing them, in cafe of any frefh hasmorrhage, which fometimes happens after the patient is warm in bed; dry lint is then applied and kept on by a fimple dreffing, avoiding every thing greafy on the edges of the wound: by thefe means the parts unite and heal in great meafure by the firft intention ; or, if any colleftion of matter is formed in the cavity which the teftis occupied, it will be in fmall quantity, and eafily difcharged by the lower part of the wound, which muft form a depending and an advantageous opening; after which the granulations will gradually fill the fpace, and the cure will be but little' re- tarded. This exceiknt plan of preferving as much found and ■undifeafed fkin as poffible, and putting no obflruftions in the way of Nature's healing powers, has of late years been applied to almoft every fpecies of tumor which it may be neceffary to remove, and may be cfteemed one of the greateft improvements of modern furgery. , E. lint442 A TREATISE lint fliould be fufFered to remain, until it be perfeaiy loofened by the fiippuration from every part of the fore: if it be removed fooner, it muft be done by force: in which cafe, it will give unnecelTary pain, and leave a crude undigefted fore; if it be not removed until quite loofe, it will give no pain, and the fore will be found clean, and well digefted, and requiring no other dreffing afterward than mere dry lint; which, from this time, fhould be applied in fuch quantity and manner, as to give Nature an opportunity of contradling and •healing the wound as faft as (he can; in both ■which, fhe may be confiderably affifted by the ludicious exhibition of the bark. I am very fenfible, that in the above direc- tion for the performance of the operation of caftration, I have differed from the dodlrine of fome very eminent modern pra6litioners; and particularly from Mr. Le Dran. No man thinks more highly of Mr. Le Dran's abilities than I do; but in thefe matters, every' one muft take the liberty of judging for himfelf; and I cannot help thinking, that 1 have good reafon for my opinion. . Mr. Le Dran, having divided the integu- ments in the groin and fcrotum, feparates the tefticleON THE HYDROCELE, &c. 44^ tefticle from the furrounding membrane with his fingers, and with fciffors. This method is rather coarfe, is unneceffarily painful, and does, what mufl for ever be wrong, multiphes the inftruments to be ufed, without any ne- eefiity. The knife, in the hands of any man at all accuftomed to the ufe of one, will exe- cute the whole with more apparent dexterity, with lefs pain, and much greater expedition \ I have, without hefitation, directed the fpermatic chord to be tied. Mr, Le Dran's advice is different. He advifes, that a ligature be paffed underneath it; and left there to be tifed, or not, as occafion may require, ^ " Je fens le fcrotum jufqu' au deflbus tellicule malade, & avec mes doigts, je detache le tefticiile d'avec le tiflU " cellulaire, qui le tient attache dans le fcrotum. Si quelque " portion membraneufe a de la peine a fe detacher, je la coupe f avec des d/eaux," Mr. De Garengeot divides the whole fcrotum with fciffors; and I cannot fay that I have not feen it done in London; but it is a tedious, coarfe, cruel, and very un- handy method of doing it. " Cette premiere incifion faite, *' I'operateur pouffera de force, le doigt indice> ou le grand " doigt fous la peau, dansles cellules graiffeufes, afin d'entrer f dans le fcrotum, & il aggrandira fon incifion, en coupantfur f f fon doigt avec des cifeaux mouffes la peau, qu'il aura feparee *' des graiifes, et il ouvrira ainfi tout le fcrotum." Garengeot. Operat. Chir. He444 A TREATISE He then takes the extremity of the latter between his finger and thumb; and, by rub- bing, pinching, or bruifing, produces a degree of contufion, fufficient (as he thinks) to^pre- ^ vent, in general, any haemorrhage; and, hav^ ing fo done, he cuts off the tefticle from the faid chord, immediately below the bruifed part, leaving (as I faid before) the ligature ready to be tied, if neceffary This method, of firfl bruifing, and then cutting off the fpermatic chprd, without mak- ing a Hgature on it, is alfo prefcribed and praaifed by fome gentlemen of eminence here ; and I make not the leafl: doubt, that, both with thefe gentlemen, and with Mr. Le Dran, it may have been fuccefsful; but, as I " " II n'y a que I'artere qui m'intere/Te, parce qu'il n'y a " qu'elle, qui puilTe donner du fang apres que j'aurai coupe le *' cordon. Je la prends entre deux doigts a I'endroit, ou elle *' paffe fur I'os pubis, et avec elle les veines qui I'entourent; " puis je palTe entre ces vailTeaux et le canal deferent, que I'on diftingue fous le doigt, a fa durete, une aiguille enfilee de " deux brins de fil cire. J'ote I'aiguille, et je lailTe les fils, f pour faire la ligature au cas qu'elle devienne neceffaire. Je " prends auflitot les vailTeaux plus bas que I'os pubis, et je le " froilTe entre mes doigts, pour y faire une efpece de contu- " fion; puis je coupe le cordon un peu au delTous de cette " endroit froiffe.'* M. L e D r a n. haveON THE HYDROCELE^ &C. ' have feen three people lofe a very alarming quantity of blood, and one very nearly his life under it; and as in the many times which I have performed this operation, I never faw the leaft inconvenience arife from the ligature^ 1 cannot approve the omiflion of it. Mr. Le Dran himfelf not only feems to be apprehenfive of what may be the confequence, by his paffing a ligature, and leaving it ready to be tied, and by the very good reafon which he gives for not cutting off the Ipermatic chord (as moft of his countrymen advife) elofe to the opening in the tendon of the ob- lique mufcle; but alfo, in the fame para- graph, acknowledges, that a fatal haemorrhage has been the confequence of the ligature hav- ing flipped off, after it has been made^. In f " On demandera, pourquoi je ne fals pas la ligature du " cordon immediatement au deffous de I'anneau, comme les " auteurs le prefcrivent. Jereponds^que filaligature s'echappe, " on ne peut plus lier I'artere qui fe retire au deffus de I'an- neau, ou elle peut donner du fang dans le tiffu cellulaire du peritoine, et faire perir le malade, comme l'o?i a <vu arri'ver," Le Dran. " Si le cordon fpermatique eft gonfle jufqu' aupres de I'an- " neau, on ne peut fuivre cette methode; et il faut abfolument " faire la ligature du cordon, immediatement au deflbus de «' I'anneau.'*A tRfiAtlSE In the cafe of a perfedly found and unal- tered fpermatie chord, in which the veflels are not become varicofe, and the operator can ttiake his divifion of them as low ashepleafes, this froiflement, this eontufion may be fuffi- cient to prevent an hasmorrhage; but in cafes where the fpermatie chord is enlarged, Mr. Le Dran himfelf does not think it fafe to truft to it. And that the veflels, from which a fcirrhous tefl:icle is dependent, may be confi- derably enlarged and diftended, and that pretty high, and yet not fo difeafed as to render the operation unadvifable or unfuccefsful, I have more than once or twice feen. The com- preflion which may be made, of the extremity " Tanneau." The remainder of this paragraph does indeed feem a kind of contradiftion of the preceding. " S'il eft tres- gonfle meme un plus haut que I'anneauy et qu'on ne puifTe fe " difpenfer de faire I'operation, il n'y a point de ligature a " faire; il faut fendre un pen I'anneau, puis eouper le cordon, " et I'artere ne donnera pas de fang." Set afide all confider- ation of the propriety or impropriety of performing the oper- ation, when the fpermatie chord is difeafed above the ring (as it is called) what can be the reafon, why the artery Ihould not be expedled to bleed, after being divided within the abdomen ? when the fame gentleman allows it to have produced a fatal haemorrhage, upon retiring into that cavity, or into the cellular membrane of the peritoneumi after having been cut off without the faid ring. ofON THE HVDROCELE, &C* 447 of the divided chord againft the os pubis, on which fome ftrefs feems to be laid, will, whe- ther it be made by the finger, or by comprefs and bandage, prove more troublefome to the" patient, than the very momentary pain of the li2:ature. The kft circumftance in which I have ven- tured to differ from the commonly-prefcribed rules, is, that I have not advifed the removal of any part of the fcrotum ^ My reafon is that I never found it necefTary in any cafe, when the fcrotum was not adhe- rent to the teflicle. Let the fize of the fcirrhus be what it may, the fcrotum will corrugate to its natural form* when the wound is healed; and if in the operation it fairly be divided to the bottom, ^ " Si quelque portion memtiraneufe a de la peine a fe de- *' tacher, je la coupe, avee des cifeaux; & quand le tefticule ejt " ote, j'enleve une partie de la peau du fcrotum, ft cette peau *' s'ell trop etendue par le volume de la tumeur." Le Dran. The fame direflion is given by Laur. Heifter. Cutis " fcroti quae exempio teficulo fupervacanea ut refecari forfice " debet." By which means (that is, by not removing the Ikin along witli the tefticle, but afterward) the patient fuffers almoll as much pain, as the whole operation, properly per- formed, would occafion; and that without any neceffity. will44^ A TREATISE will neither lodge matter during the cure, nor produce any inconvenience afterward. When it is adherent to the tefticle, and the cellular ftrudiure of the dartos is thereby de- 'ftroyed, all fuch adherent part fhould certainly be removed; not only becaufe it is deceafed, but becaufe it will give the patient a great deal of uaneceffary pain to diffed it: but then it fhould always be removed along with the tefticle, in the manner direded by Mr. Samuel Sharpe, and not be differed off firft, and re- moved afterwards. By the latter method, the patient's pain is increafed, prolonged, and even renewed with- out the leaft neceffity. , In every operation, in which a confiderable portion of fkin is to be divided, and particularly in this, and in the amputation of womens* breafts, it fliould always be remembered, that, as the divifion of the fkin (the general organ of fenfation) is the moft acute and painful part of what is done by the knife, it cannot be done too quick, and fhould always be done at once: the fcrotum fhould always be divided to the bottom, and the cir.cular incifion in the fkin ofabreail always made quite round, be- foreON THE Hydrocele, Sec. 449 fore any thing elfe be thought of\ If this be not executed properly, and perfe(5lly, the operation will be attended with a great deal of pain which might be avoided, and the operator will be juftly blameable. Before I take my leave of this operation, I think it right to give the young pra£litioner a caution, viz. that if the tumor be of a pyri- form figure, perfectly fmooth, and equal in its furface, and free from pain, notwithftand- ing the degree of hardnefs may be great, and he may, in his own opinion, be clear that the tumor is not produced by water, but is a true fcirrhus, I would advife him, immediately previous to the operation, to pierce the ante- rior part with a trocar, in order to be certain. My reafon for giving this advice is, that I was once fo deceived by every apparent circum- ftance of a true, equal, indolent fcirrhus, that This paflage has been quoted as a proof that Mr. Pott's .ufual pradtice was to remove the whole flcin coveting a cancer- ous breaft; but it could only relate to thofe cafes in which the fkin was fixed to the gland, and partook of the difeafe. When it was found and uhaffedted, Mr. P'. by his dodtrine and prac- tice inculcated the prefervation of it; and I have many times feen him remove large tumors by means of a fimple line, fo as to preferve the (kin entire. E. Vol. II, G g I removed45® A TREATISE I removed a tefticle, which proved upon exa- mination to be fo little difeafed, that, had I pierced it with a trocar previous to the oper- ation, I could and certainly fhould have pre- ferved it. Having, in the immediately preceding pages, given my opinion very explicitly concerning the expediency and propriety of removing, by the operation of caftration, afcirrhous tefticle, when fairly charaderifed, and properly cir- cumftanced, it cannot be neceflary to relate any fuch cafes. Every man, who is at all (ionverfant with this kind of bufmefs, knowsj that the operation on proper fubje£ls, and in proper infiances, is very frequently fucceff- s ful; and that many peopJe have been by it refcued from immediately impending mifery> and have palTed many years in health and cafe, and in a ftate to propagate their fpecies. Particular accounts of fuch, would appear like mere boaftings of fuccefs, Thofe, therefore, which follow, are fe^- }e(fl:ed, either becaufe the fortunate event was- not very probable;, and they may therefore ■ferve ta prove, that we fhould not too haftily or inadvertently defpair: Or, becaufe their true nature was miftai- 4 hen;ON THE HYDROCELE, &c; 451 ken ; arid", therefore, they Were improperly treated; Or, that they were attended With circurii- flarices not to be forefeen or prevented: Or, thai: the Cafe wis too long heglefiied, ^nd the operation tod long deferred; or per- jformed when fuccefs frorh it was not at alt likely: Or, that they were combined With other bomplaints, either general or local; by which the beft calculated attempts muft be fruftrated: Or, that they contain fbfhethihg iti theii* hatui^e which appears to be fingular. From feach, dr all b£ which; I apprehend the pradti- tioner may reap full as iiiuch, if not more, beneficial inftruiftion, than from the moft pompous hiftbries of fuccefs; C A ^ t XXXIX. A MAN about forty-feven years old^ Who liad- been; for the fpace of fhree or foiir ^ears, afflidled with a truly fcirrhdus tefticle, applied to me. He had been, more than once, dur- ing that time, advifed to part with it, but was afraid of the operation. He was now alarmed G g 2 by45^ A TREATISE bj an alteration which it had lately under- gone; and from Ibme circumftances in his general health which were new. The tu- nior,>^from its firft appearance, had been indo- lent and equal, the fpermatic chord in a na- tural ftate, and he had no other complaints of any kind. The teflicle was now very un- equal in its furface,; it had increafed confider- ably within the laft three months; and the fpermatic chord was enlarged, (that is) be- come varicofe, more than half way from the teflicle to the groin. He had alfo a colicky diforder, which recurred frequently without any purging. . The cafe was unfavourable; and there ap- peared to me to be no chance, but from caftra- tion: the ftate of the fpermatic veffels ren- dered that dubious ; but the improbability of the difeafe remaining in its prefent ftate, made it ftill worth embracing. The general ftate of the patient's health, was alfo ah alarming circumftance; but neither could that be amended, while the local difeafe remained. Having apprifed him of all thefe circum- ftances, he willingly fubmitted to the oper- ation; which was performed- the next day. The ftate of the procefs juft admitted of mak- ingON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 453 ing the ligature between the enlarged part and the abdominal mufcles. Nothing parti- cular attended the cure ; the fore healed very- kindly, and the man has enjoyed a good ftate of health ever fince : which is now, between four and five years. CASE XL, A GENTLEMAN from America applied to me on account of a complaint in one of his tefticles. It had, while he was- abroad, been fuppofed to be, and had been treated as, ve- nereal ; by which means, what was, at firfl, a'fimple, equal, indolent;fcirrhus, with a fpermatic chord unaltered from a natural ftate,' was, when I faw it, unequal, at times pain- ful, and dependent from fpermatic veffels confiderably enlarged and fwoUen, though ftill foft, and free from knot or induration. He was otherwife in perfed health, his age thirty-three-, and his conftitution unhurt by debauchery,or intemperance. With regard to th? tefticle, there could be no doubt, eithec.of. the nature of the difeafe, or the propriety of its being removed; but Gg 3 the454 A TREATISE the Aate of the fpermatic veffels was fuch, a$, made the profped of fuccefs from caftration very uncertain. Two or three confultations were had; the refult of all which were nearly the fame, that is, the furgeons were very ap- prehenfive of the operation, from the ftate of the chord, and therefore would not p.refs it-; and the phyficians prefcribed internal reme- dies ; and among thefe the cicuta, which luckily happened to difagree fo much with the patient, that he would not go on with it: I fay luckily, becaufe it thereby preventeci the lofs of more t^me in the ufe of it. The patient was fingle, a fenfible man, md had a great deal of courage and refolution in his natural conftitution. Having maturely weighed all thatl^ad been faid to him, and finding that no relief was likely to accrue from medicine, and that his difeafe was as little hkely to ftand flill, he de^; termined rather to take the chance which the operation would give him, either of fudden deftruaion, or a cure, than live in that ftate, of anxiety, which muft arife from a conftant meditation on the nature of his difeafe. The operation was performed; and in the execution of it, I \^as particularly attentive to' theTHE HYPROCELE, &C. 455 the ftate of the veffels. The whole procefs was, 1 may venture to fay, full double the fize it ought to be, and the veins very tor- tuous, by their being diftended ; but there was no induration, nor ahy inequality, fave that proceeding from the varicofe ilate of them. When the tefticle was removed, I examined that alfo very carefully. The cavity of the tunica vaginalis was, in a great meafure, abo- Jilhed, by an almoft general adhefion of th^t jnembrane with the albuginea; the epididy- rnis was tolerably found, but the whole com- pages of the teftis hard and 4ifea^ed: and in the very centre pf it was a putrid flough, And a very fmall' quantity of ill-coloured fanies. It is now above five years fince the oper^ ation. The piitient has enjoyed perfedt health ever fince, and finds no one inconvenience from the lofs of the part. In thefe two cafe?, the event was foftynatc beyond expeaation» In fuch circumftances, every thing is to be feared : the operation is feldom advifable, becaufe feldom fuccefsflil. However, they pnay ftand inftances to prove, that where there is even a fmall fouq.- G g 4 " Ration45^ A TREATISE datioii for hope, it is better to embrace fuch opportunity, than to leave the patient to his fate. Neither himfelf nor his friends (hould, in fuch cafe, be flattered or deceived; but the uncertainty fhould be laid before them, and the operation fliould be their own choice. CASE XLl, A YOUNG man, about twenty-four years old, defired my opinion concerning a tefticle, which was beginning to enlarge, and was al- ready becpme very hard, The account he gave was as' follows: That, about feven or eight months before, he had a common hernia humoralis, in confer quence of the fuppreffion of a. gonorrhea by- hard riding. That the inflammatory fymp- tojns. were foon removed by reft, evacuation, and proper application j but that neither the tefticle, nor the epididymis, had ever returned to their natural fize. That the furgeon,. whofe care he had been under, had, fmce the inflammation was gone off, given him a confiderable quantity of mercurial medicine internally, and had rubbed on a good deal of the ointment externally; by M'hich his I mouthON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 457 mouth had been made fore; and that he had alfo taken two or three mercurial vomits. The tumor was perfc£lly indolent, eveu upon being handled; it had a ftony, incom- preffible kind of hardnefs, and the fpermatic veflels were in a found, natural ftate. I told him, tliat whatever might have given rife to his difeafe, it was my opinion that it was a true fcirrhus; that it would never be cured by medicine ; that, although it was quiet, and free from pain now, no man would pretend to fay how long it might continue fo; and that I fhould, by all means, advife him to part with it in its prefent fliate, rather than ftay till fuch alteration fhould be made in it, as though it might induce him to comply, might render the operation unfuceefsfuL He difapproved my advice, and I faw no more of him for near four months; at the end of which time, he called upon me again. His tefticle was a good deal increafed in fize, but the fpermatic chord ftiU unaffeaed. 1 repeated my former advice, and he' again refufed to comply. At the diftance of two months from this time, I faw him again. His tefticle was ftill more enlarged, and the,cavity of the tunica vaginalis^4•58 A TREATISE vaginalis palpably contained a fluid. He faid, Jie had {hewed it to two other furgeons; both of whorn had promifed him much relief, if not a cure, by letting out that water, which they told him made the principal part of his difeafe. I anfwered, that I had no manner of 4Gubt that there was a fluid ; hut that I ap- prehended it to be much lefs in quantity than either he, or they who had promifed a cure by letting it out, took it to be: that it ap- peared to me tQ make fo fmall a part of the fweliing, that I was fure that the decreafe of fize, upon its difcharge, would bear no pror portion to his expedation; that this fluid made no part of the original difeafe, but was ah- accidental confequence ; that an opening made into a tefticle fo circumftanced might lexcite very difagreeable fymptoms, froni which he was at prefent' free; and that my opinion was ftill, that it ought to be totally removed, or not meddled with. ■ ''^^ left me,' with much diffatisfa6lion. He faid, that I was too tenacious of my own opir nion, and too regardlefs of that of others. 13ut I had feen too many of thefe cafes to be in any doubt concerning its nature ; and I knew the people, under whofe direction he then was.ON THE hyb?:gcele, &e. Wa^, too well to fuppofe, either that they Jtiiew any thing of the matter, or thgf'^hey would leave any thi^)g unattemptedj whii^ he had either credulity or money. Soon after this I heard, that he had fujbmitted to have a pundure made, by which a very fmall quan- tity of bloody ferum was difcharged; but the lize of the tumor fo fittle leffeped, that bis pperator would fain hav« thruft a lai^cet in again, and deeper; hut this the patient v/ould p.ot permit. Being vpx.ed at what had happened, he pame no! again to me, till at the diftance of near two months more. He was now in a very different ftate. His complexion was wan and pale, his flefh and appetite gone, his tef- ticle very large, unequal, and painful, and the fper;matic chord difeafed quite up to his groin, ^ I was very forry to be obliged to tell him, ^hat I could do him no good; and that the operation was by no means advifable. H€ now, of courfe, fell into the hands of thofe who only want a little ready, money; and having tried two or three of thefe, he was advifed to take the cieuta ; which he did for Ibme time, aind in large dofes, but (as-ufiial) without any'real or permanent good effefir. His4^0 A TREATISE His ftate, foon after this, became truly de- plorable ; his tefticle was of an amazing fize ; the fpermatic chord, quite up to his belly, fo large as hardly to be capable of being grafted by the hand f a- very large, hard tumor within that fide of the belly; his pain acute and conftarit; and his flefh, ilrength, and appe- tite, totally gone, 'iri thefe circumftances, a believer in'the omnipotence of the fublimate folutioh, pre- fcribed it for,him: from which he received the advantage of having his death Kaflened. CASE XLII. A MAN.about thirty, of a full pl^tljoric ha- bit, .fhewed nie a tumor in the fpermatic pro- cefs, about the midway between the groin and tefticle; it was hard, circwmferibed,.in- dolent when not meddled jwith,, but painful fpr..^. long time after having been handled, and the pain of fuch kind, as to indicate the dfifeafe not to have ; a very benign charafter ; the tefticle- was perfedly free. ladyifed the lofing fome^bloo^ gentle eva- cuation by ftool, the ufe of a-.fufpeufory to takeON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 461 take off the weight, and defired the patient to let me fee him again in about ten days. At the diftance of fomewhat mofe than a month) he came to me again : and told me, that from me he had gone to a rupture-do£lor, who put a trufs on him, and giving him an external application, bad him come to him again in a week; that the prefllire of the trufs^ joined to the irritating quality of the ointment, greatly increaled the pain and the fwelling: that his do£lor then appUed an adhefive plaf- ter; and when he had worn that a few days, he thruft a lancet into the body of the tumor t that nothing followed the lancet but blood 5 that he enlarged the opening, and filled it with lint; and that, for feveral days after, he had drefled the fore with red powder (preci* pitate). He had now as truly malignant a cancerous fore, as I ever faw ; and all the fpermatic procefs above it was fo difeafed, as to prohibit all thought of an operation. No- thing palliated the fury with which it pro- ceeded ; he lived feveral months in great ajid conftant pain, having a large hard body within the belly (on that fide) extending from the groin quite up to the 'region of the kidney; and which, I make no doubt, confilledof the difeafed fpermatic veflbls. CASECase xliil A, MAN, about forty-eight yeirs '0!^, wtiB lived at fome Gonfiderable diftance from Lon- don, perceived One of his tefticles becoming hard; larger in flze than it ufed to be; and when he was on horfebaek, fomewhat painfuL Having been feverai times clapped, and twice confined with a hernia humoralis, he thought that this fwelling was of the fame kindj and applied to the apothecary of the town where he lived; whoj not being much accuftomed to furgery, and being mifled by the patient*s opinion and account, looked ori it in the fame light, and gave him feverai dofes of calomel: thefe not fucceeding to his Wifli, he confined the patient to his bed, ap- plied a poultice to the fcrotumj and vomited him twice or thrice, with the mercjirius emet; flavusi By this procefs the man became fe- Verifli; loft his appetite, fleep, and flefh j and the tefticle inereafed, both in fize and hardnefs. I was now confulted by letter, and gave thy o|5inion, that the cafe was not venereal 5 that mercurial medicines, or whatever wa^s' likelyON THE MVriROCELE, &C.' 46j likely to increafc the circulation, were wrongs and would be found prejudicial; that what- ever might become necefiary hereafter,. the prefent intentions ought to be, to procure eafe, to remove the fever, to keep the body (which had always been coftive) gently open, and to acquire ftrength by the adminiftration of foft, light nourilhment; and I recom- mended the decod. farfaparillie, with liiilk^ for his common drink. In another letter, which I received at about three weeks diftance from the firll:, my opi* iiion was afked concerning the cicutal td which I replied, that in fcirfhous and can- cerous cafes, (one of which I took this to be) I had never yet feen it do any good, though taken for a confiderable time^ and in large dofes; but, on the other hand, as I had never feen it do any harm, I could have no objec* tion to its beingr tried. In about two months, or a little more, 1 had another letter, giving me an account that the cicuta had been taken freely, and had alfo been conftantly applied as a Cataplafm 5 that, in about a month after its firft applica- tion, the pains, both in the part and in the patient's back, were remarkably inci-eafedj thatA TREATISE that he now and then complained of bfeidg chilly; and that there had been, from about that time, a palpable fluduation of a fluid, near to the furface^ of the tumor; that this fluid had been let out by the point of a lancet, and proved to be only a fmall quantity of a bloody ferum; that) from the time this opening had been made, the pain as well as the lize of the tumor had increafed ; that, by continuing the cicuta poultice, with the addi- tion of fome Burgundy pitch, a colledion of matter, or impofthumation, was now pro- duced, plainly to be felt, though deep in the body of the tefticle : and I was defired to fay what I thought would be the propereft man- ner of giving difcharge to it. DO O I returned aufwer, that it was a very dif- agreeable thing to be obliged to give a pofitive opinion on a cafe by relation only j and that from thofe who I was fure thought not of it as I did. That as it was by no means unlikely that I might be miftaken, I defired, that what I fhould now fay might not be underftood or applied to any other cafe, than what I tooA this to be\ that I took it to be a fcirrhus, which was becoming cancerous apace, and would very foon fliow more of its malignant difpofition;5n the hydrocele, &Ci 465 difpofition ; efpecially if irritated. That the fluid, which had been let out, was nothing more than the water of the tunica vag-inaUs : whofe abforption was prevented ; and whofc colour was produced by the difeafed ftate of the tefticle. That I fhould not have advifed the letting it out at all; much lefs in that fmall quantity. That it was my opinion, that the fluid, which was now fuppofed to be felt to flu£luate deep in the body of the tefti- cle, was by no means matter, or the effeft of a kindly fuppuration ; but a malignant fanies> the confequence of the very difeafed ftate of the teftis. That I did verily believe they would find, that the quantity of it bore fmall proportion to the fize of the general tumor. That the letting it out would, more probably 1, occaflon an aggravation than an alleviation of lymptoms, and render the difeafe ftill more painful and more hazardous than it was al- ready. And that I fhould not be furprifed to heaf, that there was no fluid at alL To this I received a fhort reply, fignifying, that it was apprehended I had miftaken the cafe. That another gentleman in London had been confulted ; who (from tlie account given of the ftate of the fpermatic chord, of Vol. it. II h • theA TREATISE the preceding herniae humorales, and, raof! probably, from a mifreprefentation of the cafe) had advifed the making an opening by knife ; which had been done : but the writer of the^ letter did not fay a word about what was let out. I heard no more of the cafe, or patient, for near another month ; and then was fent for, one evening, to an inn in this town,, where i found him in a fituation truly deplorable. The tefticle was amazingly large, and one half of it covered by a prodigious fungus, which was intolerably painful, gleeted largely, and at times bled profufelythe fpermatic procefs was alfo very large, and a tumor plainly to be felt within the belly, canfed by the difeafed ftate of the feminal veffels. The man's ftrerigth an^: flefli were exhaufted ; in fhort he was dying, and did not live above a week or ten days from this time. I believe it muft be unnecelTary for me to obferve, that the'mifconception of the nature, and the method of treating, the three preced- ing cafes, had no fmall fhare in contributing .to the fufferings of the patients, and to the fatahty of -their events. I beUeve alfo, that moR pradtitioners, who have been converf^nt 7 ' ^ ^ withblT TilE HYDROCELE, &C. 467 with this kind of bufinefs, will be of opinion j that the operation, perfornned iii due time, woiild certainly have contributed to the e^fe^ and perhaps to the prefervation of them. A cancerous difpofition in the habit will Certainly render a patient liable to be de- ftroyed, by the difeafed ftate of parts out of our reach ; and thereby render the operation, although performed in due time, in the bell: manner, and under the moft favourable appa- rent circumftances, urifuccefsful: but as this very often cannot be forefeen, or foreknown, furely it muft be very wrong to omit doing what may preferve health and life, only be- caufe it may alfo happen, that it may do nei- ther. In all thefe cafes, a guarded prognoftic fhould be made ; and it fhoiild be confidered, that though we are fometimes deceived and fruftrated by finifter events, yet, on the other hand, it happens, and that not infrequently, that cafes which have even an unfavourable and threatening afpedl at firfl:, come to a veiy' feappy ifllie. CASE XLIV. A MAN, about fifty years old, defired my advice concerning a difeafed tefticle. It was H h 2 about468 A TREATISE about the fize of a fmall pomegranate, very hard, perfedly free from pain, and the fper- matic proeefs free from all appearance of dif- eafe. Caftration, he faid, he was determined not to fubmit to ; and only wanted to know, whether I could put him into any other me- thod of o-etting; rid of his difeafe. I o-ave him my opinion very freely, on the great impro- bability of his being ferved by any other means: and though I did, in fome degree, advife him to fubmit to the operation, yet there were fome circumflances in his general health, which induced me not to prefs it; and made me rather pleafed, that he was previoufly de- termined againft it. He had a very fallow, difeaied complexion, a general waiit of muf- Qular flefli, and firmnefs; a very frequent cohc, fometimes attended with a threatening diarrhoea, and fometimes with an obftinate conftipation. In the fpace of two or three years, he took a great variety of medicines; and faw a great number of pratlitioners, both regular and irregular, but found no benefit; neither did the tefticle in all that fpacc of time fufter any material alteration, or the procels become at all affected. He died of an obfti- nate and painful dyfcntery : and when he wasON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 469 was opened, his mefentery was found full of large, hard, fcirrhoiis knots ; all the lympha- tic glands about the receptaciilum chyli, and beginning of the thoracic duft, remarkably difeafed ; and the liver much enlarged and hardened. The want of an healthy appearance, the pains, and other complaints which attended the man, mio^ht have been owing to caufes independent of his fcirrhous tefticle; and upon fuch fuppofition, the removal of the faid tef- ticle by the operation might have been vindi- cable : but if it had been done, it fhould have been under ^ very guarded and doubtful prog^ i¥)J[lxc. ^ C A S E XLV, A MAN about fifty, fhewed- me a large, dif- eafed tefticle, which he faid had been gradu- ally, for near four years, getting to that fize and ftate; and was produce'd, as he thought, by the kick of a child. The furgeon who attended his family had often feen it, while it was fmall, equal, and free from pain ; and had as often prefled him to part with it; but while it was eafy, he v/puld {lever think of it. H h 3 It47^ A TREATISE performed 5 It was now large, and unequally hard 3 it had, in fome parts of it, a quantity of fluid, in others none; it was very painful to the touch; it gave him great uneafmefs in his back, from its weight, and even \yhile it was fufpended, or he was in bed, he had fuch and fo frequent darting pains in it, as to render him very unhappy,, and to deprive him very much of his natural reft. The fpermatic chord was perfedlly free; but the frequency of his pain, and the difturbance of his fleep, gave him a veiy unhealthy appearance. J told him, that I thought he had miffed the moft favourable opportunity, by not fubmit- ing to the operation while the teflicle- was; fmall, fmooth, and indolent; that fome cir^ cumftances in his general ftate and habit were unfavourable ; but flill, as the fpermatic pro- cefs was free, and as there was no great pro-; bability that the tefticle would ever again be eafy, or ceafe to increafe in fize until the fpermatics fliould become difeafed alfo, I thought it was better to take the chance of the operation, than fubmit to that certain mifery which mufl: attend the farther progrefg of the difeafe. The patient confented ; the operation was©N THE HYDROCELE, &C. 47I •performed; and every thing went on in the moft favourable manner, till the fore was re- placed to the fize of a fixpeuce ; he was then feized with a paiii in his belly, the fore changed its afpeft, and from appearing to be almoft healed, it fretted, became foul, fpongy, and fpread fo eonfiderably, that in a fortnight's time it was as broad as a hand; it bled fre- quently, gleeted largely, was extremely pain- ibi> and very offenfive; nothing that was done had any good effedl on it j and, having janguifhed fome months, he died. Some of the circumftances in this eafe were undoubtedly unfavourable; but I have feen people do very well under fimilar ones; and I ftill think, that the patient chofe the lefler of the two evils, and embraced the more prof liable change, CASE XLVL A POOR man, who was in St. Bartholo- mew's hofpital for a hurt in one of his legs, defired me to look at his fcrotiim, which was of a very large fize. The tumor was principally formed by wa- ter iu the tunica vaginalis teftis j but, through H h 4 the47^ A TREATISE the fluid, it was eafy to diftinguifli a difeafed tefticle. He complained of imeafmefs from the weight, and had, he faid, now and then a pain fhot ;ip from the tefticle into his back ; he had alfo, now and then, a cohc, with nau- fea and inchnation to vomit; and was very fubjetl: to a fort of ftrangury. 1 drew off near a wine quart of ^ yellow thin fluid, by means of a trocar; and when that was done, was fp fatisfied that the teftis was difeafed, that I would ^have immediately removed it; but the man would not confent. He foon got well of his leg, and ^Yas difcharged from the hofpital. He was a bricklayer's labourer; and in about a fortnight or three ^veeks time frorn his difcharge, fell from a high fcaffold, and^ was fo much hurt that he died, after he had| been again in the hofpital two days; and I gladly embraced the,opportunity of examining his dead body. The tunica vaginaUs was not only much diftended, but confiderably thick- ened. The tefticle was a grreat deal tool arse, and tQo hard; but upon divifion, didnotfhew any confiderable mark of difeafe, except in its yery centre, where there was a fmall quantity of a difcoloured iluiies, and a, putrid flougl-^, TheON THE HYDROCELE, &:c. 473 The fpermatic vefl'els were not at all altered from a natural ftate, except that the vein was varicofe. Immediately below the emulgent vejTels, on the right fide, was an irregular tu- mor, near as big as the kidney itfelf, perfe6lly fcirrhous,and firmly attached both to the renal blood-veflels, and to the aorta. The external part of this tumor was rough and unequal, arid of a whitifh colour : and in the centre of it were exa(£tly the fame appearances as within the tefticle, viz. a fmall quantity of matter, and a flough. Where the ureter was croffed by this tu- mor, it was much compreffed and ftraitened in its diameter; but below this ftridure it was confiderably dilated. The kidney was not quite healthy in its appearance. Had this man been caftrated, I make no doubt that his internal fcirrhus would have de- flroyed him; but that was a circumflance not to be collected from his general ftate, or from his complaints, and therefore not to be fore- known : the operation would therefore have been vindicable, though unfuccefsful. CASE474 A TREATISE C 4 S E XLyil. A MIDDLE-AGED mail was brought into St, Bartholomew's hofpital for an apcidental hurt, of whjch he foon got well; and when he was going to be difcharged, he defired Mr. Freke, wholp patient he. had been, to look at one of his tefticles. It was large and unequally hard; gave him a great deal of pain at Ihort inter- %^als, and feemed to contain a quantity of fluid in its middle part: the fperniatiq chord was pretty free, jufl.at its exit from the abdomen; but all between that point and the tefticle much difeafed. Some of the gentlemen prefent exprefled t|ieir apprehenfions, that the Jiate of the pro- cefs was fuch, that the operation would mofl probably be unfuccefsful, and therefore they ly-ere rather inclined, that the man fhould be difcharged .without any attempt of that kind;' but Mr, Freke thought other wife, and per^ formed it immediately. The veflels of the difeafed procefs were varicous to a great de^ gree, and very knotty and hard; the con- neding membrane was much thickened, the epididyipisON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 4*7^ and (epididymis and tefticle quite confounded togc- thef; and in the body of the latter was a quantity of bloody fanies, contained in two or three large cells. The man got no reft after the operation, the veffels of the dartos bled throu2;h all the dreflings more than onge, and in a few hours he became very hot and reftlefs, with a pulfe quick and hard. The next day he bled again; not from the chord, but from the whole dartos: his fcro- tum became much fwelled, and loaded with a lymphatic kind of tumefadlion, but was very little inflamed; his pulfe was inconceivably rapid, but fmall; he complained of acute pains in his back, a burning heat within it, an into- lerable thirft, and an anxiety that was more terrible to bear than all the reft: toward nio-ht o (of the fecond day) his pulfe faultered, he be- came eafy, and his extremities cold; and early on the third mornins; he died. CASE XLVIII. A HEALTHY man, under forty, came to • me with a complaint in one of his tefticles, fhe epididymis of which was much enlarged47^ A TREATISE and hardened, while the body of the teftis feemed to be in a natural ftate. His age, his general appearance, and the particular flate of the part, induced me to be- lieve it to be venereal; but, upon aflcing him a few queftions, he afierted, that he had never received any taint of that kind in his life. He faid, that the firft time he had ever taken no- tice of this complaint, was about fix weeks before, after riding hard in the day, and danc- .ing all night; that it was very fmaU at firft, had increafed gradually, and now began to be very troublefome to him, either in riding or walking; and that not only from its mere weight, but from frequent pain in it. I am obliged to acknowledge, that" I was at this time, fo prejudiced by the genei-ajly pre^ vaihng dodtrine, that a true fcii-rhus or cancer never .began in the epididymis, that I thought, either that my patient was deceived himfelf, or had a mind to deceive me, I therefore gave him a mercurial pill to take every night, confifting of a fmall dofe of calo- mel, with fome kermes mineral, and direded a fmall portion of mig. -mercur. to be rubbed every evening into the fpermatic procefs. , By piirfuing this method for about ten days, hisON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 47^ liis mouth became fore, and he was much, dif- pleafed thereby; I gave him fome gentle ca- thartics, but his fpitting kept at above a pint a day, for more than a fortnight: at the end of which time, the hardnefs, as well as fize and inequality of the epididymis and vas de- ferens were manifeftly increafed ; and his un- eafinefs in thefe parts was greater. The death of a near relation now called him into the country, where he ftaid about a month. At his return, hefent for me. The difeafe was increafed, but ftiil confined to the epididymis; which was now in that ftate, which I fuppofe conftituted the caro adnata of the ancients : it was hard, craggy, painful, and in fize nearly equal to the tefticle itfelf; the darting pains were frequent; and the un- eafinefs from its weight w^as conftant and tirefome. I was now fatisfied of the true nature of the cafe, and let drop a hint of the propriety of re- moving the part; but having a very delicate and timorous man to deal with, I defired him to take the opinions of fome other gen- tlemen. He faw Mr. IMiddleton and Mr. Nourfe as47^ A TREAttSEi He as fiirgeons, and a third gentleman as a p{iy^ iiaan. The two former advifed immediate caftra- tlon; the laft feemed to wifti him to take the cicuta, or the folanum, medicines then in falhion. The thought of caftration'fliocked him fo much, that he willingly embraced any hints concerning fpecifics. He took the cicuta fer more than two months, beginning with a fmall dofe, and in* creafing it gradually to very large ones. It now and then made him a little fick and giddy; but the difeafe increafed under it fo manifeftly, that I was apprehenfive that we were doino* much worfe than merely lofing time. I fig- nifiedmy fufpicion, and prefTed the operation; but he would not hear of it. The folanum was now tried under the di- redion of the do£lor; but it difagreed fo much, even in the fmallefl quantity, that there was no poffibility of perfifting in it. Upon this, as upon mofl occafions of this kind, every acquaintance recommended either ■ afpecihc or a quack: moft of which wefe tried, and I faw no more of my patient for above four montlis.ON THE HYDROCELIT, &C. 47^ and He then fent for me again. The whole tefticleand fpermatic procefs, quite within the belly, were thoroughly difeafed, hard, and knotty; his pain was acute, and almoft con- flant; and his whole appearance truly pitiable. He was much difpleafed that I, who had often preffed him to fubmit to the operation, would not now perform it; but it was too late. In a few days after this vifit, he applied to an operator; who required a very confider- able fee before-hand, and laid the whole fper- matic procefs open. A-very terrible hjemor- rhage enfued, and he died the next day in in- expreffible agony. I vifited a patient with Mr. Markland, whofe firft local complaint was a hardened, enlarged epididymis, and vas deferens; and upon whom the whole power of mercury, and other fup- pofed deobftruent medicines, together with cataplafm, fomentation, &c. were tried, dur- ing a long fpace of time, in abfolute confine- ment, but to no good purpofe : the part be- came fo large, fo difeafed, and fo painful, and the habit of the patient fo.much affefted by it, that extirpation was abfolutely neceffary. When the part was removed, I examined it very carefully; and never faw a more trueJ^'^O ' A TREATISE and petfed fcirrhus in my life. The epMi- dymis was thrice the lize it ought to have been ; its external furface was very unequal, and very hard ; and in the centre of it was a putrid flough, with a fmall quantity of matter^ juft as it is found very often in the middle of a fcirrhous and cancerous tefticle* . The tefticle was hardly, if at all, altered from a natural ftate, except that the tunica vaginalis was ge- nerally adherent to the albughiea. Its inter- nal texture was foft, and bore very little mark of diftemper. I have, at this inflant, a lad in St. Bartho- lomew's hofpital, both whofe tefticles are fo truly difeafed, that they mufl of neceffity be removed. I have feen him from the firfk of the attack. The difeafe for feveral months occupied only the epididymis; and had no connexion with, or dependence on, any vene- real mifchief. Every thing that the art of furgery could do (or at leaft every thing that I am acquainted with in it) has been tried, but without any efteft ; and nothing but the oper- ation can fave him. , . CASEON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 481 CASE XLIX. Mr. William Sharp defired me to vifit a patient with him. Tlie cafe was a fcirrhous tefticle. It was large, and very hard; but fmooth, equal, and no other way painful, than from its weight. There was nothing in the tefticle M^hich forbade the operation; on the contrary, it was in fuch ftate, as to promife very fair for fuccefs ; but the fpermatic pro- cefs, from the teftis quite up to, and appa- rently within, the opening in the abdominal tendon, was fo large and full, that it was im- polTible to feel the vefiels. This fulnefs, and increafe of fize, if it could be fuppofed to pro- ceed from a difeafed llate of thefe veflels, and their membranes, was fuch a bar to'caftration, that nobody could poffibly thmk of it in fuch circumftances: but on the other hand, if it could be fuppofed to be owing to an extrava- fated fluid, the withdrawing fuch fluid might make a very material alteration in the flate of all the parts. Mr. Sharp faid, that he had feen this patient fome months before, and had let out (as he thought from the tunica vaginalis) Vol. II. I i ' a quantity'^^^ A TREATISE He a quantity of water; and that he then found the tefticle a gr^at deal too large; and was very fure that he then diftindly felt the fper- matic veffela. The tumid procefs, though large, full, and tight, yet was fmooth and equal throughout; and 1 thought, that I could very plainly feel a fluauation through the whole of it; that is, from the opening in the oblique mufcle, to the upper part of the tefti- cle. The patient was young and healthy, the weight and fize of the teiHcle very trour blefome : and nothing but this ftate of the procefs in the cafe, to make it neceffary to ■defer the operation a moment. A punfturc \vas made with a large lancet into the tumor juft above the tefticle; near a pint of clear yellow ferum was difcharged ; the fweUing fubfided ; the fpermatic veflels, which were in a found, natural ftate, became eafily difti^i- guifliable: the operation was immediate],y pe^r- formed, and proved fuccefsful. C A S E L. A POOR failor, who had been difcharged from one of the navy hofpitais, applied to, St. Bartholomew's.ON THE HYDROCELE, &C. 483 He had a fcirrhous tefticle, which was not large, but was as hard as marble: very craggy, and unequal, and attended with frequent acute pain: the procefs alfo was fo large, that, upon fuch examination as I had then time to make, I told the man, that I did not conceive that he could receive any benefit, even from the operation; but one of the go- vernors, prevailed on by the man's folicitation, defired that he might be admitted. The firft time we were all met together, I produced this man for the general opinion; which was, that if the increafed fize of the fpermatic procefs was the eftea pf a difeafed ftate of the parts compofnig it, the operation was improper, as it would only haften thf man's death, and that in a very painful man- ner ; but if it could be thought to be owing (as in the preceding cafe) to an extravafation of fluid in the common membrane, it was cei^ tainly worth while to try what the difchargc of that fluid might produce. ..-:.The whole was related to the man: he was informed of our doubts, of what we in- tended to do, and of the probability that it might be of no fervice to him : a punfture was made in that part of the procefs where li 2 the4^t> A TREATISE • fEf^-^.^:^^' In, the next place, I did not likettie .jtjtate of-the fperniatic procefs, which was both too large and too hard ; and in the third place, I thought the general circumftances of his morbid appearance, and bad ftate of health, were great objedions to operations of fuch confequence, as either the laying open, or differing of the hernial ,iac from the fpermatic procefs, or caftration. ^ f An this was related to the rh^in in the fair- eft mannef^poffible; and he d,elired to-have fucn-, or any operation performed, which I ihould think right. : Having been confined to his bed for more than a week previous to the operation, the omentum Jiad hardly ever been down during that time, and 'was now perfe6lly up. This, though it might j^rove a circurnftance in the man's favour, was none in mjne as an operator;, for the hernial ?acl5eing empty and flaccid, gave me thereby Snore trouble. The hernia was of the con- "^eiiM kind ;' and, coiifequentiyV when. .1 ^ttd divided the Tdc to the bottom, the ftate 'of th-e' fpermatic "'chord and tefticle was ma- ^liifeft"; ' and I had only to pafs ^itiy needle %h.d- ligature round the upper part of the "former, without paying any more or par- ticular reo;ard to'the hernial 'fac. Upon a nearerON THE HYDROCELE, Scc, 487 nearer view of the ftate of the procefs, I liked it ftill lefs than I had done before; but there was nothing now could be done, but to go through with the operation, and to take the chance of it. I did fo; the man bore it well, and was better, for thefirfttwo or three days, than I could have expe£led. After the Brft week was pair, I was daily furprifed at the good ftate of my patient. He was eafy, free from pain or fever, flept well, took nourifli- ment; and it was impoffible for any fore to be or to look better. At the end of three weeks, when he was to all appearance well, and his fore almoft healed, he was fuddenly feized with pain all over him, and died on the fecond or third day from this attack. I had him opened. The portion of omen- tum, which had formed the hernia, had an attachment to the peritoneum, juft within the mouth of the hernial fac ; which, I fup- pofe, was the reafon why it could not be kept up while he was ered. The lymphatic glands about the lumbal vertebras were all difeafed; thehver was fcirrhous throughout, and had a large colledion of matter in its lower part. END OF VOL. II.1